Item 1A. Risk Factors We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit and other lawsuits, which may adversely affect our financial condition and detract from our management’s time We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit filed in Texas, styled Citizens Insurance Company of America, Citizens, Inc., Harold E. Riley and Mark A. Oliver, Petitioners v. Fernando Hakim Daccach, Respondent, in the Supreme Court of Texas, in which a class has been certified by the Texas District Court, Austin, Texas, and affirmed by the Court of Appeals for the Third District of Texas. We appealed the grant of class status to the Texas Supreme Court, and oral arguments occurred on October 21, 2004. We have not yet received a decision from the Texas Supreme Court. The suit names as a class all non-U.S. residents who purchased insurance policies or made premium payments since August 1996 to our international life insurance subsidiary, CICA, and assigned policy dividends to two non-U.S. trusts for the purchase of our Class A common stock. The beneficiaries of the trusts are approximately 80,000 non-U.S. policyholders of CICA, who have assigned their life insurance policy dividends to the two trusts administered by Gala Management Services, Inc., a Panamanian trust services company. As of February 26, 2006, this trustee held of record approximately 35.4% of our Class A common stock on behalf of the CICA policyholders who were beneficiaries of the trusts. The purchases of our Class A common stock by this trustee to the trusts on behalf of policyholders, all of which have been made in the open market, were approximately $15.3 million in 2005, $13.4 million in 2004, and $11.1 million in 2003. The elections to assign insurance policy dividends to the trusts were made by the policyholders in consultation with independent marketing consultants of CICA. The suit alleges that the life insurance policies which we made available to these non-U.S. residents, when combined with a policy feature which allows policy dividends to be assigned to the two non-U.S. trusts for the purpose of accumulating ownership of our Class A common stock, along with allowing the policyholders to make additional contributions to the trusts, were actually offers and sales of securities that occurred in Texas by unregistered dealers in violation of the registration provisions of the Texas securities laws. The remedy sought is rescission and return of the insurance premiums. However, the elections by the policyholders to contribute their policy dividends and other amounts to the trusts were made outside of the U.S. We believe, among other things, that U.S. law, including Texas law, does not apply to the operations of the trusts, and therefore, no securities registration provisions apply, nor do U.S. laws relating to broker-dealer registration apply. We believe the securities claims based on Texas securities laws are not valid, that no broker-dealer registration is required of us or our marketing consultants, and the class as defined is not appropriate for class certification because it does not meet the legal requirements for class action treatment under Texas law. We intend to continue to defend vigorously against class certification, as well as against the other claims in the case. We are unable to determine the potential financial magnitude of the claims if the class certification were to become final and the plaintiff was able to prevail on the substantive claims, although we would expect a significant adverse financial impact from an adverse final class action judgment. We are also a party to various legal proceedings incidental to our business. We have been named as a defendant in various legal actions seeking payments for claims denied by us and other damages. In the opinion of our management, the ultimate liability, if any, resulting from any contingent liabilities that might arise from such litigation, is not material in relation to our financial position or results of operations. Reserves for claims payable are based on the expected claim amounts to be paid after a case-by-case review of the facts and circumstances relating to each claim. A contingency exists with regard to these reserves until the claims are adjudicated and paid. Litigation, such as the matters described above, also can require significant amounts of time of our management which would otherwise be devoted to our business. 33 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. In addition to the Daccach case and other legal proceedings as described above, we may from time to time be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including, but not limited to: • other possible disputes relating to the overseas trusts that, as described above, purchase and hold our Class A common stock on behalf of CICA policyholders. For example, if the plaintiffs were able to prevail on their claims that Texas securities laws apply to the assignment of policy dividends, as asserted in the Daccach case, or that U.S. or Texas securities laws otherwise apply, we could face the possibility of other securities law claims within the United States. We also could face claims in foreign countries relating to noncompliance with their securities laws in connection with policyholders who participate in a non-U.S. trust and who beneficially own our Class A common stock. We cannot, for example, ensure that our foreign sales associates are in compliance with foreign securities and insurance laws, because we do not have oversight over such persons. We have not obtained any opinion of counsel as to the applicability of foreign securities laws to the above actions. Also, the estimation of any liabilities from any possible claims would be difficult to determine; • disputes over insurance coverage or claims adjudication; • disputes regarding sales practices, disclosures or absence of disclosures in connection with the offer and sale of our insurance policies and the option available to policyholders to assign dividends to a non-U.S. trust for the purpose of accumulating our Class A common stock, premium refunds, licensing and regulatory compliance with insurance and securities laws in the United States and in foreign countries; • disputes with our consultants or employee agents over compensation and termination of contracts and related claims; • disputes regarding our tax liabilities; and • disputes relating to businesses acquired by us. In the absence of countervailing considerations, we would expect to defend any such claims, and we could incur significant defense costs, including not only attorneys’ fees and other direct litigation costs, but also the expenditure of substantial amounts of management time that otherwise would be devoted to our business. We could be faced with contingent liabilities with respect to possible claims for violations of foreign and domestic securities and insurance laws, the extent of which would be difficult to determine. In addition, plaintiffs continue to bring new types of legal claims against insurance and related companies. Current and future court decisions and legislative activity may increase our exposure to these types of claims. Multiparty or class action claims may result in additional exposure to substantial economic, noneconomic or punitive damage awards, including the litigation to which we are currently a party. The loss of even one of these actions, if it resulted in a significant damage award or a judicial ruling that was otherwise substantially detrimental, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The risk of incurring a large liability in the event of an unsuccessful defense may make it more difficult to settle claims on reasonable terms. We cannot determine with any certainty what theories of recovery may evolve or what the impact of litigation or regulatory changes may be on our businesses. 34 Table of Contents A substantial amount of our revenue comes from foreign nationals. This involves risks associated with business in other countries, such as might result from political or economic instability or the application of laws or regulations to our business. A substantial part of our insurance policy sales are from foreign countries, primarily in Latin America. There is a risk of losing a significant portion of these sales should adverse events occur in the countries from which we receive insurance policy applications. Approximately 55.2% of our consolidated revenues in 2005 were from our International Life segment. If economic or political crises were to occur in any of the countries where our foreign policyowners reside, our revenues would likely decline. For example, Argentina underwent a severe financial economic recession in the early 2000’s. As a result, our lapse rates relating to insureds residing there increased significantly and our new insurance business generated there declined dramatically. Also, foreign expropriation laws could adversely affect our revenues by imposing restrictions on fund transfers outside of a country where our insureds reside. In addition, a country could decide that we are subject to their insurance, securities and other regulation, or that we are required to maintain assets in that country as a part of our operations. Such actions would require us to reevaluate our existing products, including the cessation of accepting new applications from residents of that country. Our revenues from nationals of that country would likely be reduced significantly. While our management has over 30 years of experience in writing life insurance policies for residents of foreign countries without any significant regulatory action or any significant adverse expropriation controls relating to our insureds, there can be no assurance that such situations will not occur and that our revenues will not be affected adversely. We have not obtained any opinion of counsel addressing whether we may be required to qualify to do business or become licensed as an insurance company in, or the applicability of any securities laws of, any foreign country to our operations or to that of foreign trusts who hold our Class A common stock for our policyholders, nor have we sought or obtained any order of any foreign regulatory body relating to these issues. We may not be able to continue our past strategy of acquiring other U.S. life insurance companies, and we may not realize improvements to our financial results due to past and future acquisitions. Over the past years, we have acquired several U.S. life insurance companies. Our objective in this strategy has been to increase our assets, revenues and capital, improve our competitive position and increase our earnings, in part by allowing us to realize certain operating efficiencies associated with economies of scale. Prior to 2004, increases in earnings were not significant from the completed acquisitions compared to increases in existing business. 35 Table of Contents On an ongoing basis we evaluate possible acquisition transactions and, at any given time, we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions. While our business model is not dependent primarily upon acquisitions, the time frame for achieving or further improving our market positions can be significantly shortened through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisitions which present opportunities for continued growth and operating efficiencies will continue to be available to us, or that we will realize the anticipated financial results from acquisitions. Our failure to address adequately these acquisition risks may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to integrate our acquisitions on an economic basis, and the process of integrating companies we acquire could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Implementation of an acquisition strategy could entail a number of risks, including among other things: • inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; • failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings or cash flow; • an increase in indebtedness and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed; and • adverse changes in the economies of geographic regions in which the businesses of our acquisitions are concentrated, due to natural disasters, changing population demographics, governmental actions and other causes. For example, virtually all of the premium income of Security Plan, from which we obtained premium revenues of approximately $37.7 million in 2005, is generated in Louisiana. Premium income for Security Plan for the fourth quarter of 2005, following the two hurricanes that hit Louisiana in 2005, totaled $9,220,000 compared to $9,587,000 in the fourth quarter of 2004. As with other geographic areas in the United States in which the business operations of our acquisitions are located, Louisiana could again experience natural disasters, such as hurricanes and flooding. A large-scale natural disaster such as this would be expected to have an adverse effect on the economy of that area, which in turn could result in a material adverse effect on our premium income from Security Plan. Sales of our products may be reduced if we are unable to attract and retain marketing representatives or develop and maintain distribution sources. We distribute our insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including independent marketing consultants, employee agents and third-party marketing organizations. Our relationships with these persons are significant both for our revenues and profits. In our Domestic Life segment, we depend in large part on the services of independent marketers. In our Home Service segment we depend on employee agents whose role in our distribution process is critical, in particular to develop and maintain client relationships. In our International Life segment we depend on outside marketing 36 Table of Contents consulting organizations and outside consultants. Strong competition exists among insurers to form relationships with marketers of demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for representatives and consultants primarily on the basis of our compensation and support services. Any diminishment in our inability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Policy lapses in excess of those actuarially anticipated would have a negative impact on our financial performance. If our insurance policy lapse and surrender rates were to exceed the assumptions upon which we priced our insurance policies, our business could be adversely affected. The prices and expected future profitability of our insurance products are based in part upon expected patterns of premiums, expenses and benefits, using a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in-force from one period to the next. Lapses occur when premium payments are not made. Surrender of a policy occurs by an affirmative act of the policyholder and is usually accompanied by an economic benefit for the policyholder because the policy has accumulated value. Policy acquisition costs are deferred and recognized over the life of a policy. Actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract, primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy or contract. Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, which may require us to establish additional reserves, which in turn may materially reduce our earnings, profitability and capital. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated exposure for claims relating to our issued insurance policies. Reserves, whether calculated under Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) or statutory accounting principles (“SAP”), do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections, of what we expect claims will be based on mortality assumptions which are determined by various regulatory entities. Many reserve assumptions are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. In addition, when we acquire other domestic life insurance companies, our assessment of the adequacy of acquired policy liabilities is subject to our estimates and assumptions. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in our statements of operations of the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, there can be no certainty that ultimate losses will not exceed existing claims reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During the three years ended December 31, 2005, we did not experience substantial deviations in actual claims losses from reserve estimates previously established. However, future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases are made. Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and negatively affect profitability. 37 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses that could reduce our profitability. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability and significant fluctuations in the fixed income market could impair our profitability, financial condition and cash flows. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our insurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our net investment income was $23.6 million and our net realized gains on investments were $419,000, which collectively accounted for approximately 16.6% of our total revenues during the year. For the year ended December 31, 2004, our net investment income was $17.0 million and our net realized gains on investments were $389,000, which collectively accounted for approximately 16.9% of our total revenues during such period. The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions. Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed maturity investments, which comprised $457.6 million, or 94.4%, of the carrying value of our total investments as of December 31, 2005. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. A significant portion of our investment portfolio is subject to prepayment risks. These investments were 10.6% and 12.2% of our investment portfolio assets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Because substantially all of our fixed maturity securities are classified as available for sale, changes in the market value of these securities are reflected in our assets and in stockholders’ equity. Similar treatment is not available for liabilities. Therefore, interest rate fluctuations affect the value of our investments and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We do not employ specific asset/liability matching strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility and to ensure that cash flows are available to pay claims as they become due. We are subject to adverse effects of interest rate volatility, and no assurances 38 Table of Contents can be given that significant fluctuations in the level of interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit risk. We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio, primarily from our investments in corporate bonds, including bonds of U.S. government-sponsored entities. If third parties that owe amounts to us for bonds or other obligations were to default in the payment or performance of their obligations, this could reduce our investment income and realized investment gains or result in investment losses. Further, the value of any particular fixed maturity security is subject to impairment based on the creditworthiness of a given issuer. As of December 31, 2005, we held $264.8 million in bonds of U.S. government-sponsored enterprises. A significant increase in defaults and impairments on our fixed maturity securities portfolio could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the cost of customer relationships acquired, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability. Deferred acquisition costs, or DAC, represent costs that vary with and are primarily related to the sale and issuance of our insurance policies that are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions, solicitation and printing costs, sales material and some support costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under U.S. GAAP, DAC is amortized to income over the lives of the underlying policies, in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums. In addition, when we acquire a block of insurance policies, we assign a portion of the purchase price to the right to receive future net cash flows from existing insurance and investment contracts and policies. This intangible asset, called the cost of customer relationships acquired, or CCR, represents the actuarially estimated present value of future cash flows from the acquired policies. We amortize the value of this intangible asset in a manner similar to the amortization of DAC. Our amortization of DAC and CCR generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity and maintenance expense margins. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, mortality, morbidity, withdrawals or lapses may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC or CCR, or both, or to record a charge to increase benefit reserves. We regularly review DAC and CCR quality to determine if they are recoverable from future income. If these costs are not recoverable, they are charged to expenses in the financial period in which we make this determination. For example, if we determine that we are unable to recover DAC from profits over the life of a block of insurance policies, or if withdrawals or surrender charges associated with early withdrawals do not fully offset the unamortized acquisition costs related to those policies or annuities, we would be required to recognize the additional DAC amortization as a current-period expense. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $70.4 million of such deferred policy acquisition costs. These costs are amortized primarily over the estimated premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the ratio of the annual premium recognized to the total premium revenue anticipated, using the same assumptions as were used in computing liabilities for future policy benefits. Excess policy lapses, however, would 39 Table of Contents cause the immediate expensing or amortizing of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would adversely affect our profitability. We may be required to recognize impairment in the value of our excess of cost over net assets acquired, which would increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. Excess of cost over net assets acquired, or “goodwill”, represents the excess of the amount paid to acquire various life insurance companies over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under U.S. GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the “reporting unit” level, which is either an operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is less than the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, plus the carrying value of goodwill, at the date of the test. For example, goodwill may become impaired if the fair value of a reporting unit as a whole were to decline by an amount greater than the decline in the value of its individual identifiable assets and liabilities. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected earnings or cash flows of a reporting unit, generation of earnings by a reporting unit at a lower rate of return than similar businesses or declines in market prices for publicly traded businesses similar to our reporting units. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a current-period expense. Loss of the services of our senior management team would likely hinder development of our operating and marketing programs and our strategy for expanding our business. We rely on the active participation of our Chairman of the Board, Harold E. Riley (age 77), our Vice Chairman of the Board, Rick D. Riley (age 52), and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Mark A. Oliver (age 47), in connection with the development and execution of operating and marketing plans and strategy for expanding our business. We anticipate that their expertise will continue to be of substantial value in connection with our operations. The loss of the services of one of these individuals would likely have a significant adverse effect on us in these respects. We do not have an employment agreement with any of these persons nor do we carry a key-man insurance policy on any of their lives. In addition, our only credit agreement with a bank provides that an event of default will occur in the event any of Messrs. Harold E. Riley, Rick D. Riley or Mark A. Oliver is not employed by us. We operate in a highly competitive, mature industry within the U.S., which could limit our ability to increase our domestic insurance operations. We compete with more than 1,000 other life insurance companies of various sizes in the U.S. The life insurance business is highly competitive, in part because it is a mature industry in the U.S. which, in recent years, has experienced little growth in life insurance sales. Competition has also increased because the life insurance industry is consolidating, with larger, more efficient organizations emerging from consolidation. Furthermore, mutual insurance companies are converting to stock ownership, which should give them greater access to capital markets, resulting in greater competition with respect to corporate finance as well. Additionally, legislation became effective in 2000 permitting commercial banks, insurance companies and investment banks to combine. This law permits, for 40 Table of Contents instance, a commercial bank to acquire or form an insurance company. We believe these factors have increased competitive pressures in general. Many domestic life insurance companies have greater financial resources, longer business histories, and more diversified lines of insurance coverage than we do. These companies also generally have larger sales forces. Although we may be at a competitive disadvantage to these entities, we seek to provide products that are competitive in the marketplace. Competition in our insurance businesses is based on many factors, including quality of service, product features, price, scope of distribution, scale, financial strength ratings and name recognition. We also compete for marketing consultants and agents to sell our insurance products. Some of our competitors may offer a broader array of products than we do with which they compete in particular markets, may have a greater diversity of distribution resources, may have better brand recognition, may from time to time have more competitive pricing, may have lower cost structures or may have higher financial strength or claims paying ratings. Moreover, some of our competitors may have a lower target for returns on capital allocated to their business than we do, which may lead them to price their products lower than we do. In addition, from time to time, companies enter and exit the markets in which we operate, thereby increasing competition at times when there are new entrants. We may lose business to competitors offering competitive products at lower prices, or for other reasons, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations face competition from several sources. Our international marketing plan stresses making available dollar-denominated life insurance products to significant net worth individuals residing around the world. New competition could also cause the supply of insurance to change, which could affect our ability to price our products at attractive rates and thereby adversely affect our underwriting results. Although there are some impediments facing potential competitors who wish to enter the markets we serve, the entry of new competitors into our markets can occur, affording our customers significant flexibility in moving to other insurance providers. We experience competition primarily from the following sources around the world: Locally operated companies with local currency policies. We compete with companies formed and operated in the country in which our foreign insureds reside. Generally, these companies are subject to risks of currency fluctuations, and use mortality tables based on experience of the local population as a whole. These mortality tables are typically based on significantly shorter life spans than those we use. Also, as a result of the foregoing factors, the statistical cost of insurance for these companies tends to be higher than ours. However, they hold their assets in local currencies, which may be preferable to some potential customers. Companies foreign to the countries in which policies are sold but that issue local currency policies. Another group of our competitors consists of companies which are foreign to the countries in which the policies are sold but use the local currencies of those countries. Local currency policies provide the benefit of assets located in the country of foreign residents but entail risks of uncertainty due to local currency fluctuations as well as the perceived instability and weakness of local currencies. We have observed that local 41 Table of Contents currency policies, whether issued by foreign or locally operated companies, tend to focus on universal life insurance and annuities instead of whole life insurance as we do. Foreign operated companies with U.S. dollar policies. We also face direct competition from companies that operate in the same manner as we do. We compete using our history of performance and our products. Competitors in our international markets include National Western Life Insurance Company, Best Meridian Insurance Company and to a lesser extent, Pan American Life Insurance Company and American International Group, Inc. There can be no assurances that competition from the above companies will not adversely affect our business. Our ability to compete is dependent upon, among other things, our ability: • to attract marketing organizations and individuals who will market our products; • to market our insurance products; • to develop competitive and profitable products; and • to maintain our underwriting and claims handling criteria. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation in the U.S., which increases our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business. We and our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the U.S. jurisdictions in which we and they do business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to stockholders and other investors. To that end, the laws of the various states establish insurance departments with broad powers with respect to such things as: • licensing companies to transact business; • authorizing lines of business; • mandating capital and surplus requirements; • imposing dividend limitations; • regulating changes in control; • licensing agents and distributors of insurance products; • placing limitations on the minimum size of life insurance contracts; • restricting companies’ ability to enter and exit markets; • admitting statutory assets; • mandating certain insurance benefits; 42 Table of Contents • restricting companies’ ability to terminate or cancel coverage; • requiring companies to provide certain types of coverage; • regulating premium rates, including the ability to increase premium rates; • approving policy forms; • regulating trade and claims practices; • imposing privacy requirements; • establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; • restricting certain transactions between affiliates; • regulating the content of disclosures to debtors in the credit insurance area; • mandating assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds; • regulating market conduct and sales practices of insurers and their marketers; and • restricting contact with consumers, such as the recently created national “do not call” list, and imposing consumer protection measures. The capacity for an insurance company’s growth in premiums is partially a function of its statutory regulatory surplus. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by statutory accounting practices and procedures, is considered important by insurance regulatory authorities. Failure to maintain required levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to maintain all required licenses and approvals, or if our U.S. domestic insurance business is determined not to fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations, our business could be harmed. Also, some regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals, and could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or monetarily penalize us. Any of these actions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to quantify the effect of foreign regulation of our insurance business if regulation were to be imposed on us, but we believe we could expend substantial amounts of time and incur substantial expense in complying with any foreign regulation, and we may decide to withdraw from the particular market where the regulation was imposed. We do not have any assets or employees in foreign countries. In connection with business from foreign countries, we only accept applications at our executive office in Austin, 43 Table of Contents Texas. In addition, we require premium payments to be in U.S. dollars, which may include checks drawn on U.S. banks. As a result, we have not been subject to regulation in the foreign countries from which we receive applications for insurance. Although we provide insurance to foreign nationals, independent associates and marketing consulting firms, rather than our employees, submit the applications. In addition, we do not at present ensure that our independent sales associates certify as to compliance with foreign securities laws in connection with the ability of foreign nationals to assign policy dividends to a non-U.S. trust for the purpose of accumulating our Class A common stock. We are unable to predict whether foreign regulation will be asserted or implemented in the future. If this was to happen, and we were to agree to submit to such regulation, we would expect to devote significant amounts of time and incur substantial ongoing expenses in complying with any foreign regulation imposed on us. We have not sought or obtained any opinion of counsel addressing whether we may be required to qualify to do business or become licensed as an insurer in any foreign country, or whether the above trust arrangements are subject to foreign securities laws, nor have we sought or obtained any order or declaration of any foreign regulatory authority or court relating to these issues. Changes in U.S. regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our prospective growth. State insurance regulators and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In December 2004, the NAIC approved amendments to its model Producer Licensing Act. The amendments contain new disclosure requirements for producers regarding compensation arrangements. If adopted, the NAIC amendments would require producers to disclose to customers, in certain circumstances, information concerning compensation arrangements with producers. The NAIC also directed its Executive Task Force on Broker Activities to further consider the development of additional requirements for recognition of a fiduciary responsibility on the part of producers, disclosure of all quotes received by a broker and disclosures relating to reinsurance arrangements between insurers and reinsurance companies affiliated with a producer. We cannot predict the effect the NAIC’s recent compensation disclosure amendments or anticipated future activities in this area, at the NAIC or state level, will have on influencing future legal actions, changes to business practices or regulatory requirements applicable to us. Currently, the U.S. government does not regulate directly the insurance business. However, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. These areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. These proposals include “The State Modernization and Regulatory Transparency Act,” which would maintain state-based regulation of insurance but would affect state regulation of certain aspects of the insurance business, including rates, agent and company licensing and market conduct examinations. We cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if enacted, such laws may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 44 Table of Contents Many of our independent marketers also operate in regulated environments. Changes in regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or to distribute our products. Accordingly, these changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Changes in laws and regulations which apply to us and our marketing representatives may materially increase our expense of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reinsurers with which we do business with may not honor their obligations, leaving us liable for the reinsured coverage, and our reinsurers could increase their premium rates. We reinsure certain risks underwritten by our various operating segments, including life and casualty. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. The high cost of reinsurance or lack of affordable coverage could adversely affect our operating results. Although our reinsurers are liable to us to the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. Our reinsurers may not pay the reinsurance recoverables that they owe to us or they may not pay such recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurer’s insolvency, underwriting results or investment returns may affect its ability to fulfill reinsurance obligations. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may not be able to maintain our current reinsurance facilities and, even where highly desirable or necessary, we may not be able to obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or to obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposures would increase or, if we are unwilling or unable to bear an increase in net exposures, we may have to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. Either of these potential developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For the majority of our business we retain only the first $100,000 of risk on any one life and cede the remaining risk to our reinsurers, with the remainder of our policies having lower levels of retained risk. In 2005, we reinsured $222 million of face amount of our life insurance policies, and in 2004 we reinsured $265 million of face amount of our life insurance policies. Amounts reinsured in 2005 and 2004 represented approximately 5.2% and 6.6%, respectively, of the face amount of life insurance in effect in those years. Although the cost of reinsurance is, in some cases, reflected in premium rates, under certain reinsurance agreements, the reinsurer may increase the rate it charges us for reinsurance. If the cost of reinsurance were to increase with respect to policies for which we have guaranteed the rates, we could be adversely affected. The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information systems could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep up to date with technological advances. This is particularly important in our life insurance operations, where our information 45 Table of Contents systems are critical to the operation of our business. Our failure to update these systems to reflect technological advancements or to protect our systems may adversely affect our ability to do business. We must maintain and enhance our existing information systems and develop new information systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving industry and regulatory standards and changing customer preferences. Our failure to maintain effective and efficient information systems, or our failure to efficiently and effectively consolidate our information systems to eliminate redundant or obsolete applications, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not maintain adequate systems we could experience adverse consequences, including: • inadequate information on which to base pricing, underwriting and reserve decisions. • the loss of existing customers; • difficulty in attracting new customers; • customer and marketer disputes; • regulatory problems, such as failure to meet prompt payment obligations; • litigation exposure; or • increases in administrative expenses. In addition, our management information, internal control and financial reporting systems may need further enhancements and development to satisfy the financial and other reporting requirements of being a public company. There is a risk that we may not be able to adequately upgrade and improve our information systems on an ongoing basis, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Failure to protect confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of customers, reduction to our profitability and subject us to fines and penalties. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. We also have legal obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors. These obligations generally include protecting confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. The actions we take to protect confidential information include among other things: • monitoring our record retention plans and any changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements. • drafting appropriate contractual provisions into any contract that raises proprietary and confidentiality issues; • maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records; and 46 Table of Contents • limiting access to electronic information in order to safeguard certain current information. In addition, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires that we deliver a notice regarding our privacy policy both at the delivery of the insurance policy and annually thereafter. Certain exceptions are allowed for sharing of information under joint marketing agreements. However, certain state laws may require individuals to opt in to information sharing instead of being immediately included. Additionally, when final U.S. Treasury Department regulations are promulgated in connection with the USA Patriot Act, we will likely have to expend additional resources to tailor our existing efforts to the new rules. We have and maintain a written information security program with appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect such confidential information. If we do not comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory problems, loss of reputation and litigation. The insurance business in which we operate may be subject to periodic negative publicity, which may negatively impact our financial results. The nature of the markets for the insurance products we provide, including international life and home service, is that we interface with and distribute our products to individual consumers. There may be a perception that these purchasers may be unsophisticated and in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocate groups or the media may focus attention on our products, thereby subjecting us to periodic negative publicity. We may also be negatively impacted if another insurance company engages in practices resulting in increased public attention to our businesses. Negative publicity may result in lower sales of insurance, increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation, which may further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products, requiring us to change our products or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. General economic, financial market and political conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected from time to time by general economic, financial market and political conditions, both in the U.S. and in the foreign countries where our non-U.S. policy owners reside. These conditions include economic cycles such as: • insurance industry cycles; • levels of employment; • levels of consumer spending; • levels of inflation; and • movements of the financial markets. 47 Table of Contents Fluctuations in interest rates, monetary policy, demographics, and legislative and competitive factors also influence our performance. During periods of economic downturn, individuals and businesses may choose not to purchase our insurance products and other related products and services, may terminate existing policies or contracts, permit them to lapse or may choose to reduce the amount of coverage purchased. The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us in sufficient amounts for us to conduct operations could harm our ability to meet our obligations. As a holding company whose principal assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we will rely primarily on statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of corporate expenses. The ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us and to make other payments in the future will depend on their statutory surplus (which is the excess of assets over liabilities as determined in accordance with statutory accounting principles set by state insurance regulatory authorities), future statutory earnings (which are earnings as determined in accordance with statutory accounting principles) and regulatory restrictions. Except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of the subsidiaries’ creditors, including policyholders, have priority with respect to the assets and earnings of the subsidiaries over the claims of our creditors. If any of our subsidiaries becomes insolvent, liquidates or otherwise reorganizes, our creditors and shareholders will have no right to proceed against the assets of that subsidiary or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of the subsidiary under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws. The price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and may be affected by market conditions beyond our control. Our Class A share price is likely to fluctuate in the future because of the volatility of the stock market in general and as a result of a variety of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • quarterly variations in actual or anticipated results of our operations including for individual products; • interest rate fluctuations; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • our failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors; and • actions or announcements by our competitors. Class A common stockholders will always be minority holders who will not control us, will have a limited ability to influence our business policies and corporate actions, and will not by themselves be able to elect any directors. It is difficult for our minority shareholders to elect any of our directors or otherwise exert influence over our business. Our outstanding Class B common stock elects a simple majority of our board of directors. All of the Class B common stock is owned indirectly by 48 Table of Contents Harold E. Riley, Chairman of the Board, through the Harold E. Riley Trust. Additionally, Mr. Riley is the largest Class A shareholder. Therefore, Mr. Riley has virtually complete control over significant corporate transactions. These factors would also make it more difficult and time consuming for a third party to acquire control of, or to change, our board of directors. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and insurance laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as various state insurance laws, may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our directors. These provisions may facilitate entrenchment of our directors, which may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. The following provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws have anti-takeover effects that may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt. In particular, our articles of incorporation and bylaws: • provide that our Class B common stock elects a simple majority of our board of directors; all of such stock is beneficially owned by Harold E. Riley; and • permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock. State insurance laws generally require prior approval of a change in control of an insurance company. Generally, such laws provide that control over an insurer is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, an insurance commissioner generally will consider such factors as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquirer’s plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. In addition, a person seeking to acquire control of an insurance company is required in some states to make filings prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and the target insurance company and their affiliates have sufficiently large market shares in particular lines of insurance in those states. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control involving us, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. You should not anticipate receiving cash dividends on your Citizens Class A common stock, because we have not paid any cash dividends and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. 49 Table of Contents To date we have not paid cash dividends on our Class A common stock or Class B common stock, because it is our policy to retain earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business. Thus, you should not rely on your investment in us for periodic dividend income. The only return on your investment in our Class A common stock will be the appreciation in its market value, if any. There are a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock eligible for future sale in the public market. The sale of a large number of these shares could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall. There were 43,300,934 shares of our Class A common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2005. The outstanding shares of our Series A-1 Convertible Preferred Stock were convertible, as February 26, 2006, into 1,974,723 shares of Class A common stock at a conversion price of $6.33 per share. Although we have no present plans to do so, if we were to increase the Series A-1 Preferred Stock issue size from its existing $12.5 million up to a maximum of $25 million, then an additional 1,974,723 shares of our Class A common stock may be issuable upon conversion of those preferred shares. The unit warrants, which were also issued on July 12, 2004, entitled the investors to purchase from the Company up to $5 million of Series A-2 Convertible Preferred Stock. Three of the four investors exercised their unit warrants, for an exercise price of approximately $3.75 million, before the unit warrants expired in October 2005. The three issuances of Series A-2 Preferred Stock are convertible into Class A common stock at conversion prices equal to 110% of the average market closing prices of the Class A common stock for the 30 trading days before the respective dates of issuance of the Series A-2 Preferred Stock to the three investors. The conversion, exercise and redemption prices set forth in this and the two following risk factors, along with the numbers of shares and warrants, except as otherwise provided in the amendment to our articles of incorporation establishing the Series A Preferred Stock, have been adjusted for the respective stock dividends paid December 31, 2004 and December 30, 2005. For further discussion concerning the Series A Preferred Stock, see Notes 1(i) and 8 to the audited financial statement included in this annual report. The three investors exercised their unit warrants in July, September and October 2005. Upon exercise, these three investors each acquired 1,338 shares of Series A-2 Preferred Stock, together totaling 4,014 shares. The Series A-2 Preferred Stock is convertible into Class A common stock at prices ranging from $6.11 to $7.26 per common share. In addition, in connection with their unit warrant exercises, the three investors received additional warrants to purchase a total of 151,349 shares of Class A common stock at exercise prices ranging from $6.72 to $7.99 per share. In connection with the issuance of Series A-1 Preferred Stock and associated warrants in July 2004, the finders with respect to these transactions received, as part of the finders’ compensation, warrants to purchase 98,977 shares of Series A common stock at an exercise price of $6.95 per share. In connection with the issuances of Series A-2 Preferred Stock and associated warrants in 2005, the finders received, as part of the finders’ 50 Table of Contents compensation, warrants to purchase 27,621 shares of Class A common stock at exercise prices ranging from $6.72 to $7.99. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock receive a 4% annual dividend that is payable by issuing Class A common stock. Furthermore, we could be obligated to issue a significant number of shares of Class A common stock if the Series A Preferred Stock and warrants noted above are exercised and converted. In addition, members of our management and other affiliates owned approximately 6,309,503 shares of our Class A common stock, representing approximately 14.6% of our outstanding Class A common stock as of December 31, 2005. Sale of a substantial number of the shares described above would likely have a significant negative affect on the market price of our Class A common stock. If our stockholders sell a large number of shares of our Class A common stock, or if we issue a large number of shares of our Class A common stock in connection with future acquisitions, financings, or other circumstances, the market price of shares of our Class A common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our stockholders might sell shares of our Class A common stock could depress the market price of those shares. Provisions of our Series A Preferred Stock may prevent or make it more difficult for us to raise funds or take certain other actions. In July 2004, we completed the private placement to four institutional investors of (i) an aggregate of 25,000 shares of our Series A-1 Senior Convertible Preferred Stock, (ii) seven-year warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 543,790 shares of our Class A common stock at an exercise price of $6.95 per share. In addition, Series A-2 Preferred stock and additional warrants were issued upon the exercise, by three of the four institutional investors, of their unit warrants as discussed in the immediately foregoing risk factor. Provisions of the currently outstanding Series A Preferred Stock may require us to obtain the approval of the holders of such shares, or otherwise trigger rights of first refusal or payment provisions, to (i) incur debt or allow liens on our property, other than certain permitted debt and liens, (ii) issue or sell additional shares of our Class A common stock, (iii) amend our articles of incorporation so as to affect adversely any rights of the preferred shareholders, (iv) authorize or create a new class of stock that will be senior or equal to the Series A Preferred Stock in terms of dividends, redemption or distribution of assets, or (v) take certain other actions. For example, we cannot incur debts of greater than $3 million without approval of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to take certain corporate actions and could delay, discourage or prevent future financings. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have the right to require us to redeem their Series A Preferred Stock at any time, and we will be required to redeem any shares of Series A Preferred Stock that remain outstanding on the fifth anniversary of their issuance. The provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock require that if (i) at any time after the original issue date of the stock, the closing price of our Class A common stock for any 42 days is less than $5.50, or (ii) we issue Class A common stock or common stock equivalents for less than $6.11 per share, then the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock 51 Table of Contents may require us to redeem their shares of Series A Preferred Stock at a price equal to the amount of the original holder’s original investment, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of payment and any applicable penalties. The preferred holders’ right to require a redemption have been triggered under clause (i) above. Thus, they can require us to redeem their preferred stock at any time. In addition, we will be required to redeem any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock that remain outstanding on the fifth anniversary after their issuance at a price equal to the amount of the original holder’s original investment, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of such payment. We can elect to pay the redemption price in shares of our Class A common stock if: • the average closing price of our Class A common stock is $3.50 per share or above; • we have sufficient number of shares of Class A common stock available for issuance; • our Class A common stock is listed on NYSE or other eligible market; • the shares of Class A common stock to be issued are registered under an effective registration statement; • the shares to be issued can be issued without violating the rules of the NYSE or any applicable trading market or a provision of our agreement with the holders; • we have not filed for protection under applicable bankruptcy laws; and • certain other enumerated conditions. We would likely pay the redemption price of any Series A Preferred Stock in shares of our Class A common stock, assuming we met the foregoing criteria. The number of shares of Class A common stock which we would be required to issue to redeem the preferred stock would be determined by dividing the sum of the stated value of $500 per preferred share, plus accrued dividends at 4% per annum (paid quarterly), by the lesser of $6.11 or 95% of the volume weighted average price per share of the common stock for 15 days before the redemption date. The number of additional shares of common stock which we may be required to issue to redeem these shares of Series A Preferred Stock could have a significant dilutive effect on the book value of the shares of Class A common stock held by existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that the holders of the Class A Preferred Stock will not elect to require us to redeem their shares. In addition, there are provisions of the Series A Preferred Stock, that could, under certain circumstances, including failure to meet the requirements enumerated above, require us to pay part or all of the redemption price in cash rather than common stock. If we are required or elect to redeem shares of the Series A Preferred Stock using cash, we may have to curtail our expansion and acquisition plans. In that event we would likely try to raise additional capital by issuing new stock, but there can be no assurance that capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 52 Table of Contents 