Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. The factors set out below may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the value of our stock. There may be other risks which are not known to us. Low trading volume in our common stock may adversely affect the ability to purchase or sell in a timely manner and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the NYSE Alternext U.S., formerly known as the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) under the symbol “CUO.” In addition to the customary business factors affecting the price of a publicly traded company’s common stock, such as financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the concentration of ownership of the Company is a factor that should be considered before deciding to purchase, sell or hold our stock. Approximately 85% of the Company’s common stock is owned by the Gidwitz family, other officers and directors of the Company, employees of the Company and by two institutional fund groups. On days that the NYSE Alternext U.S. is open, the stock is often not traded at all and the average daily trading volume for 2008 was approximately 300 shares. The low volume traded on any given day could have an adverse effect on a shareholder’s ability to purchase or sell shares of the Company in a timely manner and/or adversely affect the trading price. We depend heavily on construction sector activity levels which tend to be cyclical and which differ throughout the regions in which we operate. Our results depend heavily on residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity and spending levels. The economy is experiencing a severe and prolonged recession as a result of the deterioration in the capital markets and related financial crisis which has adversely impacted our customer base. The overall levels of demand for our products are 5 influenced by fluctuations in the levels of end-user demand, which depends in large part on general macroeconomic conditions in the United States and the regional economic conditions in the markets we serve. Downturns in these general economic conditions can significantly affect our customers, which in turn affects the demand, volumes, pricing and operating margins for our products. These conditions may also impact the ability of our customers to honor their obligations to us. Failure to collect a significant portion of amounts due on customer receivables could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic and financial markets conditions may also cause our suppliers to be unable to provide materials and components to us or may cause suppliers to make changes in the credit terms they extend to us, such as shortening the required payment period for our amounts owing them or reducing the maximum amount of trade credit available to us. Such changes could adversely affect our liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial market conditions, we could be adversely affected. In addition, a substantial or prolonged material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition due to the economic recession could affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in our credit facility, which could result in our having to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders to avoid the termination of commitments and/or acceleration of the maturity of amounts that may be outstanding under our credit facility. The cost of our obtaining an amendment or waiver could be significant, and could substantially increase our cost of borrowing over the remaining term of our credit facility. Further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain an amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our credit facility would become immediately due and payable which would have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and liquidity. Adverse weather lessens demand for our products, which are seasonal. Construction activity, and thus demand for our concrete, aggregates and construction supplies, decreases substantially during periods of cold weather, when it snows or when heavy or sustained rains fall. Consequently, demand for these products is significantly lower during the winter. Sales of concrete, aggregates and construction supplies are generally stronger during the second and third quarters of the year because weather conditions are normally more favorable for construction during these periods. Sales of furnaces and console heaters usually increase in the months of August through January in response to colder weather in areas served. Sales of the fan coil product line are throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean and are more evenly distributed throughout the year. The highest volume typically occurs during the late spring and summer, particularly in Canada and in the Northern United States, where winter weather significantly reduces our first quarter sales. Evaporative coolers are marketed predominantly in geographic areas that experience hot and dry weather conditions. Sales are usually higher in the months of March through July. Sales of all of our products are, therefore, affected by adverse weather conditions in their market locations. Such adverse weather conditions can materially and adversely affect our results of operations and profitability if they occur with unusual intensity, during abnormal periods, or last longer than usual in our major markets. Competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of the markets we operate in are highly competitive. In all of our business segments, we compete with several other domestic suppliers some of which are substantially larger than us. Many factors affect the competitive environments we face in our markets. Among others, they include the number of competitors in the market, the pricing policies of those competitors, the financial strength of those competitors, the total production capacity serving the market, the barriers that potential competitors face to enter the market and the proximity of natural resources to the market, as well as economic conditions and product demand within the market. Such factors come together in each of our markets in varying ways, sometimes in ways that adversely impact demand for our products and our results of operations. Increased energy and fuel costs may have a material adverse effect on our results. Our operations consume significant amounts of energy. The price and availability of energy are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. In addition, delivery of required raw materials and distribution of our products are made by boat, truck or rail (primarily required raw materials). For these reasons, both the availability as well as the cost of energy and fuel have significantly affected, and may continue to affect, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of all of our business segments exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment, health and safety matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, tort claims and contract disputes. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation or the cost of our legal representation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the 6 amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we ultimately pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process. Governmental policies and laws have significantly increased our costs and will likely continue to negatively impact earnings. As more fully described in Item 1. Business, our operations are decentralized and involve four distinct segments. In addition, the Company has generally attempted to operate the business, while maintaining adequate financial reporting controls, with a lean corporate staff. The Company is classified as a non-accelerated filer and has therefore been exempt from the costly requirement to have our independent registered public accounting firm provide an attestation opinion as to the overall effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX). During the prior two years, however, the Company has hired a qualified employee to assist with the documenting and testing of our financial reporting controls. During 2007, the first year of the Company’s required compliance, we expended in excess of $500,000 for outside consulting services to assist us with the preparation of required documentation. These figures do not include the value of time invested by our other employees on the project nor the out-of-pocket costs incurred for travel and other related expenses. Many of these costs have continued through 2008 and the Company projects that some of these costs will continue to recur for the foreseeable future. In addition, for 2009 the Company will be required to engage our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The cost of this requirement has not yet been determined. Governmental policies and laws, particularly those relating to protection of the environment, could significantly impact our operations. Our operations, particularly our mining operations, require numerous governmental approvals and permits. Additionally, our HVAC products must meet various industry performance and safety tests which are strictly monitored. These approvals, permits and testing standards often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with the appropriate laws and regulations. Stricter laws and regulations including reclamation requirements, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us, such as for pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. The Company also has, on occasion, been the target of public pressure to exceed the legal requirements for reclamation contained in its mining permits. Such pressure in the future may also cause the Company to expend additional amounts for reclamation although no such expenditures are currently foreseen. Changes in the cost or availability of raw materials supplied by third parties may adversely affect our operating and financial performance. We obtain certain raw materials from third parties who produce such materials as cement, aggregates (in the Denver market), fly ash and other additives as well as steel, motors, electronic components, copper tubing and other items. Should our existing suppliers cease operations, reduce or eliminate production of these products or experience work stoppages for whatever reason, our costs to procure these materials may increase significantly or we may be obliged to procure alternatives to replace these materials. Market demand, both regional and international, also affects the pricing of these commodities. Although the Company has thus far been able to acquire sufficient raw materials for its operations, the Company has experienced significant increases in the costs of cement, copper, motors, steel and fuel during the past couple of years which have not been fully recovered by increased selling prices due to competitive pressures. Providing healthcare and workers’ compensation benefits to our employees is a significant cost of operation. Continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings. The costs of providing healthcare and workers’ compensation benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. We have instituted measures that attempt to control these costs; however, many factors affecting these costs are not in our control. Should these costs continue to rise, this will likely have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our insurance policies may not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience. We maintain insurance coverage, but these policies do not cover all of our potential losses, costs or liabilities. We could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. Our insurance policies have deductibles and self-retention limits that could expose us to significant financial expense. Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance, or the inability to obtain various types of insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired. In designing and evaluating our internal controls, management recognizes that internal controls, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the internal controls are met. Our internal controls have been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards except as noted in Section 9A below. Additionally, in designing internal controls, our management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible internal controls. The design of any internal controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any control will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. We annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. During this process, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls, or areas for further attention or improvement. Any failure to maintain that adequacy or our ability to produce accurate financial statements (including the proper application of our critical accounting policies) on a timely basis could increase our operating costs and materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are subject to material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, or are otherwise inadequate, or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, bill customers and coordinate our sales activities for our products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. A substantial amount of the Company’s common stock is controlled by a small number of investors and could delay or prevent a change of control. Approximately 85% of the Company’s common stock is owned by the Gidwitz family, other officers and directors of the Company, employees of the Company and two institutional fund groups. These stockholders will exercise substantial control over our operation and future direction and such concentration of control may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control and may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 