Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties. The factors set out below may have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or on the value of our stock. There may be other risks which are not known to us. Low trading volume in our common stock may adversely affect the ability to purchase or sell in a timely manner and may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on the American Stock Exchange under the symbol “CUO.” In addition to the customary business factors affecting the price of a publicly traded company’s common stock, such as financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the concentration of ownership of the Company is a factor that should be considered before deciding to purchase, sell or hold our stock. Approximately 84% of the Company’s common stock is owned by the Gidwitz family, other officers and directors of the Company, employees of the Company and by two institutional fund groups. On days that the American Stock Exchange is open, the stock is often not traded at all and the average daily trading volume for 2006 was less than 200 shares. The low volume traded on any given day could have an adverse effect on a shareholder’s ability to purchase or sell shares of the Company in a timely manner and/or adversely affect the trading price. We depend heavily on construction sector activity levels which tend to be cyclical and which differ throughout the regions in which we operate. Our results depend heavily on residential, commercial and infrastructure construction activity and spending levels. The construction industry in our markets tends to be cyclical. Construction activity and spending levels vary across our markets and are influenced by interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, demographic shifts, environmental laws and regulations, employment levels and the availability of funds for public infrastructure projects. Economic downturns may lead to recessions in the construction industry on a whole and, specifically, in our markets. Adverse weather lessens demand for our products, which is seasonal. Construction activity, and thus demand for our concrete, aggregates and construction supplies, decreases substantially during periods of cold weather, when it snows or when heavy or sustained rains fall. Consequently, demand for these products is significantly lower during the winter. Sales of concrete, aggregates and construction supplies are generally stronger during the second and third quarters of the year because weather conditions are normally more favorable for construction during these periods. Sales of furnaces and console heaters usually increase in the months of August through January in response to colder weather in areas served. Sales of the fan coil product line are throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean and are more evenly distributed throughout the year although the highest volume typically occurs during the late spring and summer, particularly in Canada and in the Northern United States, where winter weather significantly reduces our first quarter sales. Evaporative coolers are marketed predominantly in geographic areas that experience hot and dry weather conditions. Sales are usually higher in the months of March through July. Sales of all of our products are, therefore, affected by adverse weather conditions in their market locations. Such adverse weather conditions can materially and adversely affect our results of operations and profitability if they occur with unusual intensity, during abnormal periods, or last longer than usual in our major markets. Competition in our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. Substantially all of the markets we operate in are highly competitive. In all of our business segments, we compete with several other domestic suppliers some of which are substantially larger than us. Many factors affect the competitive environments we face in our markets. Among others, they include the number of competitors in the market, the pricing policies of those competitors, the financial strength of those competitors, the total production capacity serving the market, the barriers that potential competitors face to enter the market, the proximity of natural resources to the market, as well as economic conditions and product demand within the market. Such factors come together in each of our markets in varying ways, sometimes in ways that adversely impact demand for our products and our results of operations. Increased energy and fuel costs may have a material adverse effect on our results. Our operations consume significant amounts of energy. The price and availability of energy are subject to political, economic and market factors that are generally outside our control. In addition, delivery of required raw materials and distribution of our products are made by truck or rail (primarily required raw materials). Because of this, both the availability as well as the cost of energy and fuel have significantly affected, and may continue to affect, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 6 Litigation could affect our profitability. The nature of all of our business segments exposes us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment, health and safety matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, tort claims and contract disputes. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of existing or future litigation or the cost of our legal representation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we ultimately pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process. Governmental policies and laws, particularly those relating to protection of the environment, could significantly impact our operations. As described more fully within “Manufacturing” in Item 1 Business, our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits. Additionally, our HVAC products must meet various industry performance tests which are strictly monitored. These approvals, permits and testing standards often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with the appropriate laws and regulations. Stricter laws and regulations including reclamation requirements, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us, such as for pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. The Company also has, on occasion, been the target of public pressure to exceed the legal requirements for reclamation contained in its mining permits. Such incidents in the future may cause the Company to expend additional amounts for reclamation not currently foreseen. Changes in the cost or availability of raw materials supplied by third parties may adversely affect our operating and financial performance. We obtain certain raw materials from third parties who produce such materials as cement, aggregates (in the Denver market), fly ash and other additives as well as steel, motors, electronic components, copper tubing and other items. Should our existing suppliers cease operations, reduce or eliminate production of these products or experience work stoppages for whatever reason, our costs to procure these materials may increase significantly or we may be obliged to procure alternatives to replace these materials. Providing healthcare and workers’ compensation benefits to our employees is a significant cost of operation. Continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings. The costs of providing healthcare and workers’ compensation benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. We have instituted measures to control these costs, however, many factors affecting these costs are not in our control. Should these costs continue to rise, this could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired. In designing and evaluating our internal controls, management recognizes that internal controls, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the internal controls are met. Our internal controls have been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards. Additionally, in designing internal controls, our management necessarily is required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible internal controls. The design of any internal controls are based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any control will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. We annually assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. During this process, we may identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls, or areas for further attention or improvement. Any failure to maintain that adequacy or our ability to produce accurate financial statements (including the proper application of our critical accounting policies) on a timely basis could increase our operating costs and materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are subject to material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, or are otherwise inadequate, or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. We may be adversely affected by disruptions in our information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon such information technology systems to manage and replenish inventory, fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, bill customers and coordinate our sales activities for our products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and adversely affect our customer service and relationships. 7 A substantial amount of the Company’s common stock is controlled by a small number of investors and could delay or prevent a change of control. Approximately 84% of the Company’s common stock is owned by the Gidwitz family, other officers and directors of the Company, employees of the Company and two institutional fund groups. As such, these stockholders will exercise substantial control over our future direction and operation and such concentration of control may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control and may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 