Item 1A. RISK FACTORS From time to time, information provided by our employees or information included in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission may contain forward-looking statements that are not historical facts. Those statements are “forward-looking” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements and our future performance, operating results, financial position and liquidity are subject to a variety of factors that could materially affect results, including those described below. Any forward-looking statements made in this report or otherwise speak only as of the date of the statement and, except as otherwise required by law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update those statements. Comparisons of results for current and any prior periods are not intended to express any future trends or indications of future performance, unless expressed as such, and should only be viewed as historical data. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K when considering an investment decision with respect to the Company’s securities. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If they do, the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading price of the Company’s securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. Price volatility for raw materials, including rubber and carbon black, could result in increased costs and may affect our profitability. The pricing volatility for natural rubber and petroleum-based materials contribute to the difficulty in managing the costs of raw materials. Costs for certain raw materials used in the Company’s operations, including natural rubber, chemicals, carbon black, steel reinforcements and synthetic rubber remain at high levels. Increasing costs for raw materials supplies will increase the Company’s production costs and harm our margins and results of operations if the Company is unable to pass the higher production costs on to its customers in the form of price increases. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, its operations could be interrupted. If the price of natural gas or other energy sources increases, the Company’s operating expenses could increase significantly. The Company’s eight manufacturing facilities rely principally on natural gas, as well as electrical power and other energy sources. High demand and limited availability of natural gas and other energy sources have resulted in significant increases in energy costs in the past several years, which have increased the Company’s operating expenses and transportation costs. Overall, the Company’s energy costs were at high levels on average during 2007, and those costs may increase further. Increasing energy costs would increase the Company’s production costs and adversely affect its margins and results of operations. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain adequate sources of energy, its operations could be interrupted. The Company’s industry is highly competitive, and it may not be able to compete effectively with low-cost producers and larger competitors. The replacement tire industry is a highly competitive, global industry. Some of the Company’s competitors are large overseas companies with greater financial resources. The Company also competes against low-cost producers in Asia and South America. Increased competitive activity in the replacement tire industry has caused, and will continue to cause, pricing pressures on the Company’s business. The Company’s ability to compete successfully will depend in part on its ability to reduce costs by reducing excess capacity, leveraging global purchasing of raw materials, improving productivity, eliminating redundancies and increasing production at low-cost supply sources. If the Company is unable to offset continued pricing pressures with improved operating efficiencies and reduced spending, its sales, margins, operating results and market share would decline. The Company may be unable to recover new product development and testing costs, which could increase the cost of operating its business. The Company’s business strategy emphasizes the development of new equipment and new products and using new technology to improve quality and operating efficiency. Developing new products and technologies requires significant investment and capital expenditures, is technologically challenging and requires extensive testing and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. If the Company fails to develop new products that are appealing to its customers, or fails to develop products on time and within budgeted amounts, the Company may be unable to recover its product development and testing costs. The Company conducts its manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. The Company has operations worldwide, including in the U.S., the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Mexico and Asia (primarily in China). Recently, the Company has expanded its operations in Asia and constructed a manufacturing plant in China. - 6 - Table of Contents There are a number of risks in doing business abroad, including political and economic uncertainty, social unrest, shortages of trained labor and the uncertainties associated with entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements in foreign countries. These risks may impact the Company’s ability to expand its operations in Asia and elsewhere and otherwise achieve its objectives relating to its foreign operations. In addition, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, import and export limitations and exchange controls is burdensome and expensive. The Company’s foreign operations also subject it to the risks of international terrorism and hostilities and to foreign currency risks, including exchange rate fluctuations and limits on the repatriation of funds. The Company’s expenditures for pension and other post-retirement obligations could be materially higher than it has predicted if its underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. The Company provides defined benefit and hybrid pension plan coverage to union and non-union U.S. employees and a contributory defined benefit plan in the U.K. The Company’s pension expense and its required contributions to its pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions the Company uses to measure its defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a present value. The Company could experience increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of its pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate, increases in the salary increase rate and changes in its assumptions relating to the expected return on plan assets. The Company could also experience increased other post retirement expense due to decreases in the discount rate and/or increases in the health care trend rate. Increases in the Company’s pension expense could have a significant negative impact on its profitability. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, the Company anticipates that it may be required to make a cash contribution of approximately $30-35 million to its defined benefit and hybrid pension plans in 2008. If the Company’s current assumptions and estimates are not correct, a contribution in years beyond 2008 may be greater than the projected 2008 contribution. The Company cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will increase its pension expense or its pension funding obligations, thereby diverting funds the Company would otherwise apply to other uses. The Financial Accounting Standards Board may propose changes to the current manner in which pension and other post-retirement benefit plan costs are expensed. These changes could result in higher pension and other post-retirement costs. Compliance with the TREAD Act and similar regulatory initiatives could increase the cost of operating the Company’s business. The Company is subject to the Transportation Recall Enhancement Accountability and Documentation Act, or TREAD Act, which was adopted in 2000. Proposed and final rules issued under the TREAD Act regulate test standards, tire labeling, tire pressure monitoring, early warning reporting, tire recalls and record retention. Compliance with TREAD Act regulations has increased, and will continue to increase, the cost of producing and distributing tires in the U.S. Compliance with the TREAD Act and other federal, state and local laws and regulations now in effect, or that may be enacted, could require significant capital expenditures, increase the Company’s production costs and affect its earnings and results of operations. In addition, while the Company believes that its tires are free from design and manufacturing defects, it is possible that a recall of the Company’s tires, under the TREAD Act or otherwise, could occur in the future. A substantial recall could harm the Company’s reputation, operating results and financial position. Any interruption in the Company’s skilled workforce could impair its operations and harm its earnings and results of operations. The Company’s operations depend on maintaining a skilled workforce and any interruption of its workforce due to shortages of skilled technical, production and professional workers could interrupt the Company’s operations and affect its operating results. Further, a significant number of the Company’s U.S. employees are currently represented by unions. The labor agreement at Findlay does not expire until October 2008 and the labor agreement at Texarkana does not expire until April 2010. Although the Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally good, the Company cannot assure you that it will be able to successfully maintain its relations with its employees or its collective bargaining agreements with those unions. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its agreements with the labor unions on satisfactory terms, or if its unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppages, the Company’s business and operating results could suffer. The Company has a risk of exposure to products liability claims, which if successful, could have a negative impact on its financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Company’s operations expose it to potential liability for personal injury or death as an alleged result of the failure of or conditions in the products that it designs and manufactures. Specifically, the Company is a party to a number of products liability cases in which individuals involved in motor vehicle accidents seek damages resulting from allegedly defective tires that it manufactured. Products liability claims and lawsuits, including possible class action litigation, could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial position, cash flows and results of operations. - 7 - Table of Contents Those claims may result in material losses in the future and cause the Company to incur significant litigation defense costs. Further, the Company cannot assure you that its insurance coverage will be adequate to address any claims that may arise. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of its available insurance coverage may have a significant negative impact on its business and financial condition. Further, the Company cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. The Company may be unable to access the financial markets on favorable terms if its credit ratings or its financial condition deteriorates. The Company relies on access to financial markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements that it cannot satisfy by cash on hand or operating cash flows. Various factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s credit ratings or its business or financial condition, could impair its access to the financial markets. Turmoil in the capital markets or downgrades in the Company’s credit ratings would require it to pay a higher interest rate for future borrowing needs and any new borrowing facilities that the Company enters into may have stricter terms. Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets or incur additional debt in the future on favorable terms could impair the Company’s liquidity and operations, and could require it to consider deferring planned capital expenditures, reducing discretionary spending, selling assets or restructuring existing debt. If the Company is unable to execute its Asian strategy effectively, its profitability and financial condition could decline. The Company’s Asian strategy calls for it to align with strategic partners the Company believes will provide access to the local market and position it to take advantage of the significant anticipated growth within Asia over the next five to ten years. The Company has constructed a plant in China with Kenda Tire of Taiwan (“Cooper Kenda”), and has acquired 51% of Cooper Chengshan (Shandong) Passenger Tire Company Ltd. and Cooper Chengshan (Shandong) Tire Company, Ltd (“Cooper Chengshan”). The Company’s Asian strategy is subject to the risks of operating abroad and other operational and logistical challenges. The Company’s failure to execute its Asian strategy effectively would harm its sales, margins and profitability. The Company presently intends to exercise the put option on its 15 million global depositary shares of Kumho Tire Company, Inc. of Korea and expects to realize approximately $107 million from this transaction. Realization is dependent upon Kumho’s ability to fund the payment timely. The Company may not be able to successfully implement its cost savings initiatives. In September of 2006, the Company publicly announced a plan to improve its profitability. The objectives for this plan included reducing inventory levels by $100 million from the base of June 30, 2006 and implementing $170 million in cost reduction and profit improvement initiatives. The $170 million goal is also measured against the second quarter base of 2006 and is a global amount. The Company promised to deliver $100 million of this amount in 2007 and to have another $70 million implemented by the end of 2008. The Company committed to meeting these goals without closing a plant, and while continuing its tradition of excellent customer service and reducing complexity in its operations. The projects identified to deliver these improvements were in the areas of sales and marketing, logistics and plant operations. The actual projects numbered in the hundreds and the Company has rigorously tracked its progress. If these profit improvement and cost reduction initiatives are not successful, the Company’s margins and profitability would not improve to the levels anticipated. The Company may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights adequately. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to use and protect its proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which generally covers various aspects in the design and manufacture of its products and processes. The Company owns and uses tradenames and trademarks worldwide. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The steps the Company takes in this regard may not be adequate to prevent or deter challenges, reverse engineering or infringement or other violations of its intellectual property, and the Company may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some countries may not protect and enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. - 8 - Table of Contents The Company may not be successful in integrating future acquisitions into its operations, which could harm its results of operations and financial condition. The Company routinely evaluates potential acquisitions and may pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be material to its business. While the Company believes there are a number of potential acquisition candidates available that would complement its business, it currently has no agreements to acquire any specific business or material assets other than as disclosed elsewhere in this report. The Company cannot predict whether it will be successful in pursuing any acquisition opportunities or what the consequences of any acquisition would be. Additionally, in any future acquisitions, the Company may encounter various risks, including: • the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into its operations; • increased intangible asset amortization; • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of key management personnel; • unanticipated problems or liabilities; and • increased labor and regulatory compliance costs of acquired businesses. Some or all of those risks could impair the Company’s results of operations and impact its financial condition. These risks could also reduce the Company’s flexibility to respond to changes in its industry or in general economic conditions. Future acquisitions and their related financings may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. The Company may finance any future acquisitions, including those that are part of its Asian strategy, from internally generated funds, bank borrowings, public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities, or a combination of the foregoing. Future acquisitions may involve the expenditure of significant funds and management time. Future acquisitions may also require the Company to increase its borrowings under its bank credit facilities or other debt instruments, or to seek new sources of liquidity. Increased borrowings would correspondingly increase the Company’s financial leverage, and could result in lower credit ratings and increased future borrowing costs. The Company is required to comply with environmental laws and regulations that cause it to incur significant costs. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, and the Company expects that additional requirements with respect to environmental matters will be imposed on it in the future. Material future expenditures may be necessary if compliance standards change or material unknown conditions that require remediation are discovered. If the Company fails to comply with present and future environmental laws and regulations, it could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production, which could harm its business or results of operations. Environmental laws could also restrict the Company’s ability to expand its facilities or could require it to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its manufacturing processes. A portion of the Company’s business is seasonal, which may affect its period-to-period results. Although there is year-round demand for replacement tires, demand for passenger replacement tires is typically strongest during the third and fourth quarters of the year in the northern hemisphere where the majority of the Company’s business is conducted, principally due to higher demand for winter tires during the months of August through November. The seasonality of this portion of the Company’s business may affect its operating results from quarter-to-quarter. The realizability of deferred tax assets may affect the Company’s profitability. A valuation allowance is required to be recorded pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” when, based upon an assessment which is largely dependent upon objectively verifiable evidence including recent operating loss history, expected reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities and tax loss carry back capacity, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined separately for each taxing jurisdiction in which the Company conducts its operations or otherwise generates taxable income or losses. In the U. S., the Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets, the largest of which relate to tax attribute carryforwards, products liability, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations. These deferred tax assets are partially offset by deferred tax liabilities, the most significant of which relate to accelerated depreciation. Based upon this assessment, the Company recorded a $128.6 million valuation allowance for the portion of U.S. deferred tax assets exceeding deferred tax liabilities with $18.1 million being recorded as an expense in 2006. Activities in 2007 have reduced this valuation allowance to $86.6 million at December 31, 2007 and resulted in credits to tax expense for 2007. The pension liability and associated deferred tax asset adjustment recorded to equity as a result of adoption of SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” accounts for $52.3 million of the total valuation allowance at the end of 2007. - 9 - Table of Contents The impact of new accounting standards on determining pension and other post retirement benefit plans’ expense may have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company has adopted SFAS No. 158 and the statement of financial position reflects the impacts of this accounting standard. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering the second part of its review of accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans. This second phase of this project may result in changes to the current manner in which pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs are expensed. These changes could result in higher pension and other postretirement costs. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 