Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company has further updated risk factors related to the Company and its subsidiaries which follow: The Company is facing heightened risks due to the current business environment. The subprime mortgage crisis, decline in housing markets and disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy, restructuring, sale or acquisition of major financial institutions, may adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged, and the availability and cost of credit in the future. The disruptions in the financial markets also have affected business and consumer spending patterns. These disruptions could result in further volatility in raw material costs, reductions in sales of the Company’s products, reductions in asset values, longer sales cycles, and increased price competition, as well as reductions in the borrowing base under the Company’s credit facilities. There can be no assurances that U.S. and non-U.S. governmental responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore business or consumer confidence, stabilize markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. The deterioration in the macroeconomic environment, including disruptions in the credit markets, is also impacting the Company’s customers and retail consumers. Similarly, these macroeconomic disruptions are also impacting the Company’s suppliers. Depending upon the severity and duration of these factors, the Company’s profitability and liquidity position could be negatively impacted. The above factors have created overcapacity in the industry which may lead to significantly increased price competition and product discounts, resulting in lower margins in the business. Pricing volatility for raw materials, including rubber and carbon black, could result in increased costs and may affect the Company’s profitability. The pricing volatility for natural rubber and petroleum-based materials contribute to the difficulty in managing the costs of raw materials. Costs for certain raw materials used in the Company’s operations, including natural rubber, chemicals, carbon black, steel reinforcements and synthetic rubber remain volatile. Increasing costs for raw materials supplies will increase the Company’s production costs and affect its margins and results of operations if the Company is unable to pass the higher production costs on to its customers in the form of price increases. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner, its operations could be interrupted. In recent years, the severity of hurricanes and the consolidation of the supplier base have had an impact on the availability of raw materials. If the price of natural gas or other energy sources increases, the Company’s operating expenses could increase significantly. The Company’s eight manufacturing facilities rely principally on natural gas, as well as electrical power and other energy sources. High demand and limited availability of natural gas and other energy sources have resulted in significant increases in energy costs in the past several years, which have increased the Company’s operating expenses and transportation costs. Overall, the Company’s energy costs were at historically high levels on average during 2008. Increasing energy costs would increase the Company’s production costs and adversely affect its margins and results of operations. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain adequate sources of energy, its operations could be interrupted. The Company’s industry is highly competitive, and it may not be able to compete effectively with low-cost producers and larger competitors. The replacement tire industry is a highly competitive, global industry. Some of the Company’s competitors are large companies with relatively greater financial resources. Some of the Company’s competitors have operations in lower-cost countries. Increased competitive activity in the replacement tire industry has caused, and will continue to cause, pressures on the Company’s business. The Company’s - 6 - Table of Contents ability to compete successfully will depend in part on its ability to reduce costs by reducing excess capacity, leveraging global purchasing of raw materials, improving productivity, eliminating redundancies and increasing production at low-cost supply sources. If the Company is unable to offset continued pressures with improved operating efficiencies and reduced spending, its sales, margins, operating results and market share would decline. The Company may be unable to recover new product development and testing costs, which could increase the cost of operating its business. The Company’s business strategy emphasizes the development of new equipment and new products and using new technology to improve quality and operating efficiency. Developing new products and technologies requires significant investment and capital expenditures, is technologically challenging and requires extensive testing and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. If the Company fails to develop new products that are appealing to its customers, or fails to develop products on time and within budgeted amounts, the Company may be unable to recover its product development and testing costs. The Company conducts its manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the United States. The Company has operations worldwide, including in the U.S., the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Mexico and Asia (primarily in China). Recently, the Company has expanded its operations in Asia, constructed a manufacturing plant in China and invested in a tire manufacturing facility in Mexico. There are a number of risks in doing business abroad, including political and economic uncertainty, social unrest, shortages of trained labor and the uncertainties associated with entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements in foreign countries. These risks may impact the Company’s ability to expand its operations in Asia and elsewhere and otherwise achieve its objectives relating to its foreign operations. In addition, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, import and export limitations and exchange controls is burdensome and expensive. The Company’s foreign operations also subject it to the risks of international terrorism and hostilities and to foreign currency risks, including exchange rate fluctuations and limits on the repatriation of funds. The Company’s expenditures for pension and other postretirement obligations could be materially higher than it has predicted if its underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. The Company provides defined benefit and hybrid pension plan coverage to union and non-union U.S. employees and a contributory defined benefit plan in the U.K. The Company’s pension expense and its required contributions to its pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions the Company uses to measure its defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a present value. The Company could experience increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of its pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate, increases in the salary increase rate and changes in its assumptions relating to the expected return on plan assets. The Company could also experience increased other postretirement expense due to decreases in the discount rate and/or increases in the health care trend rate. The market turmoil described in the first Risk factor above has caused disruption in the capital markets and losses during 2008 in the Company’s pension investments. At December 31, 2008, on a global basis, the Company’s pension funds obligations measured on a projected benefit obligation basis, exceeded plan assets by $269 million compared to underfunding of $43 million at the end of 2007. The Company expects global pension funding of between $45 million and $50 million in 2009 and, based on current assumptions, higher levels in 2010 and thereafter. In the event of further declines in the market value of the Company’s pension assets, the Company could experience changes to its Consolidated Balance Sheet which would include an increase to Other long-term liabilities and a corresponding decrease in Stockholders’ equity through Other comprehensive income. In connection with the closure of the manufacturing facility in Albany, Georgia, the Company has been engaged in discussions with the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (“PBGC”) regarding the potential for additional pension funding obligations. The Company’s current estimates of pension funding for 2009 include amounts related to this initiative, however, if the PBGC determines additional pension funding is necessary, the Company will be required to utilize cash to make such additional contributions and such use of cash could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, cash flow and financial results. Cooper and the United Steelworkers entered into a series of letter agreements beginning in 1991 establishing maximum annual amounts that Cooper would contribute for funding the cost of health care coverage for certain union retirees who retired after specific dates. Prior to January 1, 2004, the maximum annual amounts had never been implemented. On January 1, 2004, however, Cooper implemented the existing letter agreement according to its terms and began requiring these retirees and surviving spouses to make contributions for the cost of their health care coverage. - 7 - Table of Contents On April 18, 2006, a group of Cooper union retirees and surviving spouses filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio on behalf of a purported class claiming that Cooper was not entitled to impose any contribution requirement pursuant to the letter agreements and that Plaintiffs were promised lifetime benefits, at no cost, after retirement under the terms of the union-Cooper negotiated Pension and Insurance Agreements in effect at the time that they retired. On May 13, 2008, in the case of Cates, et al v. Cooper Tire & Rubber Company, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio entered an order holding that a series of pension and insurance agreements negotiated by the Company and its various union locals over the years conferred vested lifetime health care benefits upon certain Company hourly retirees. The court further held that these benefits were not subject to the caps on the Company’s annual contributions for retiree health care benefits that the Company had negotiated with the union locals. Subsequent to that order, the court granted the plaintiffs’ motion for class certification. The Company has initiated the process of pursuing an appeal of the order to the Sixth Circuit of Appeals, while simultaneously reviewing other means of satisfactorily resolving the case through settlement discussions. As a result of the settlement discussions and in an attempt to resolve the claims relating to health care benefits for all of the Company’s hourly union-represented retirees, a related lawsuit, Johnson, et al v. Cooper Tire & Rubber Company, was filed on February 3, 2009, with the court on behalf of a different, smaller group of hourly union-represented retirees. The second case has been stayed pending the parties’ settlement discussions. Management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of possible liabilities that could result from an unfavorable settlement or resolution of these claims and no reserves for these claims have been established as of December 31, 2008. However, it is possible that an unfavorable resolution of these claims could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flow and results of operations, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve a favorable settlement or resolution of these claims. The Financial Accounting Standards Board may propose changes to the current manner in which pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs are expensed. These changes could result in higher pension and other postretirement costs. Compliance with the TREAD Act and similar regulatory initiatives could increase the cost of operating the Company’s business. The Company is subject to the Transportation Recall Enhancement Accountability and Documentation Act, or TREAD Act, which was adopted in 2000. Proposed and final rules issued under the TREAD Act regulate test standards, tire labeling, tire pressure monitoring, early warning reporting, tire recalls and record retention. Compliance with TREAD Act regulations has increased, and will continue to increase, the cost of producing and distributing tires in the U.S. Compliance with the TREAD Act and other federal, state and local laws and regulations now in effect, or that may be enacted, could require significant capital expenditures, increase the Company’s production costs and affect its earnings and results of operations. In addition, while the Company believes that its tires are free from design and manufacturing defects, it is possible that a recall of the Company’s tires, under the TREAD Act or otherwise, could occur in the future. A substantial recall could harm the Company’s reputation, operating results and financial position. Beginning with the third quarter, 2003, the TREAD Act required that all tire companies submit quarterly data to NHTSA on fatalities, injuries and property damage claims on tires. On July 22, 2008, the U.S. District Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that this data is not subject to automatic exemption from disclosure made in response to requests under the Freedom of Information Act. Consequently, the Company’s data, which is unverified at the time of submission to NHTSA, may be made public in the near future. The impact, if any, of this release on current or future litigation or on future sales is not known at this time. Any interruption in the Company’s skilled workforce could impair its operations and harm its earnings and results of operations. The Company’s operations depend on maintaining a skilled workforce and any interruption of its workforce due to shortages of skilled technical, production and professional workers could interrupt the Company’s operations and affect its operating results. Further, a significant number of the Company’s U.S. employees are currently represented by unions. The labor agreement at Findlay does not expire until October 2011 and the labor agreement at Texarkana does not expire until January 2012. Although the Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally good, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully maintain its relations with its employees or its collective bargaining agreements with those unions. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its agreements with the labor unions on satisfactory terms, or if its unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppages, the Company’s business and operating results could suffer. The Company has a risk of exposure to products liability claims which, if successful, could have a negative impact on its financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Company’s operations expose it to potential liability for personal injury or death as an alleged result of the failure of or conditions in the products that it designs and manufactures. Specifically, the Company is a party to a number of products liability cases in which individuals involved in motor vehicle accidents seek damages resulting from allegedly defective tires that it manufactured. Products - 8 - Table of Contents liability claims and lawsuits, including possible class action litigation, could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial position, cash flows and results of operations. Those claims may result in material losses in the future and cause the Company to incur significant litigation defense costs. Further, the Company cannot provide assurance that its insurance coverage will be adequate to address any claims that may arise. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of its available insurance coverage may have a significant negative impact on its business and financial condition. Further, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost or at all. Capital and Financial Markets; Liquidity. The Company periodically requires access to the capital and financial markets as a significant source of liquidity for capital requirements that it cannot satisfy by cash on hand or operating cash flows. As a result of the credit and liquidity crisis in the United States and throughout the global financial system, substantial volatility in world capital markets and the banking industry has occurred. This volatility and other events have had a significant negative impact on financial markets, as well as the overall economy. From a financial perspective, this unprecedented instability may make it difficult for the Company to access the credit market and to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, various additional factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s credit ratings or its business or financial condition, could further impair its access to the capital markets. See also related comments under “There are risks associated with the Company’s global strategy of using joint ventures and partially owned subsidiaries” below. During 2009, the Company has $147 million of long-term debt maturing of which approximately $97 million is in the parent company and an additional $185 million of short term notes payable in partially-owned, consolidated subsidiaries for a total amount due of $332 million. Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets, including the ability to refinance existing debt when due, could require the Company to defer critical capital expenditures, reduce or not pay dividends, reduce spending in areas of strategic importance, sell important assets or, in extreme cases, seek protection from creditors. If assumptions used in developing the Company’s strategic plan are inaccurate or the Company is unable to execute its strategic plan effectively, its profitability and financial position could decline. In February 2008, the Company announced its strategic plan which contains four imperatives: Build a sustainable, competitive cost position, Secure cost effective supply, Drive profitable top line growth, and Build bold capabilities and enablers to support strategic goals. In October 2008 the Company announced a network capacity study for its United States operations. This study was triggered by recent market supply and demand conditions. At the conclusion of this study, on December 17, 2008, the Company announced its intent to close its Albany, Georgia manufacturing facility. This initiative is discussed under “Restructuring” in the Management Discussion and Analysis. Estimates of charges and cash outlays related to the plant closing are based on various assumptions which could differ from actual costs and cash outlays required to complete the plant closure. If the assumptions used in developing the strategic plan or restructuring costs and cash outlays vary significantly from actual conditions and/or the Company does not successfully execute specific tactics supporting the plan or the transfer of products from the Albany, Georgia facility to its other North America facilities, the Company’s sales, margins and profitability could be harmed. The Company may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights adequately. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to use and protect its proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which generally covers various aspects in the design and manufacture of its products and processes. The Company owns and uses tradenames and trademarks worldwide. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The steps the Company takes in this regard may not be adequate to prevent or deter challenges, reverse engineering or infringement or other violations of its intellectual property, and the Company may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some countries may not protect and enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. - 9 - Table of Contents The Company may not be successful in integrating future acquisitions into its operations, which could harm its results of operations and financial condition. The Company routinely evaluates potential acquisitions and may pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be material to its business. While the Company believes there are a number of potential acquisition candidates available that would complement its business, it currently has no agreements to acquire any specific business or material assets other than as disclosed elsewhere in this report. The Company cannot predict whether it will be successful in pursuing any acquisition opportunities or what the consequences of any acquisition would be. Additionally, in any future acquisitions, the Company may encounter various risks, including: • the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into its operations; • increased intangible asset amortization; • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of key management personnel; • unanticipated problems or liabilities; and • increased labor and regulatory compliance costs of acquired businesses. Some or all of those risks could impair the Company’s results of operations and impact its financial condition. These risks could also reduce the Company’s flexibility to respond to changes in its industry or in general economic conditions. Future acquisitions and their related financings may adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. The Company may finance any future acquisitions, including those that are part of its Asian strategy, from internally generated funds, bank borrowings, public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities, or a combination of the foregoing. Future acquisitions may involve the expenditure of significant funds and management time. In connection with its acquisition of Cooper Chengshan, beginning January 1, 2009 and continuing through December 31, 2011, the minority interest partner has the right to sell and, if exercised, the Company has the obligation to purchase, the remaining 49 percent minority interest share at a minimum price of $62.7 million. Future acquisitions may also require the Company to increase its borrowings under its bank credit facilities or other debt instruments, or to seek new sources of liquidity. Increased borrowings would correspondingly increase the Company’s financial leverage, and could result in lower credit ratings and increased future borrowing costs. The Company is required to comply with environmental laws and regulations that cause it to incur significant costs. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, and the Company expects that additional requirements with respect to environmental matters will be imposed on it in the future. Material future expenditures may be necessary if compliance standards change or material unknown conditions that require remediation are discovered. If the Company fails to comply with present and future environmental laws and regulations, it could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production, which could harm its business or results of operations. Environmental laws could also restrict the Company’s ability to expand its facilities or could require it to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its manufacturing processes. A portion of the Company’s business is seasonal, which may affect its period-to-period results. Although there is year-round demand for replacement tires, demand for passenger replacement tires is typically strongest during the third and fourth quarters of the year in the northern hemisphere where the majority of the Company’s business is conducted, principally due to higher demand for winter tires during the months of August through November. The seasonality of this portion of the Company’s business may affect its operating results from quarter-to-quarter. The realizability of deferred tax assets may affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows. A valuation allowance is required pursuant to SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” when, based upon an assessment which is largely dependent upon objectively verifiable evidence including recent operating loss history, expected reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities and tax loss carry back capacity, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined separately for each taxing jurisdiction in which the Company conducts its operations or otherwise generates taxable income or losses. In the United States, the Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets, the largest of which relate to tax attribute carryforwards, products liabilities, pension and other post retirement benefit obligations. These deferred tax assets are partially offset by deferred tax liabilities, the most significant of which relates to accelerated depreciation. Based upon this assessment, the Company maintains a $222.1 million valuation allowance for the portion of U.S. deferred tax assets exceeding deferred tax liabilities. As a result of changes in the amount of U.S and certain foreign net deferred tax assets during the year, the valuation allowance was increased in 2008 by $135.5 million. In addition, the Company has recorded valuation allowances of $9.2 million for net - 10 - Table of Contents deferred tax assets primarily associated with losses in foreign jurisdictions. The pension liability and associated deferred tax asset adjustment recorded to equity as a result of SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,” accounts for $142.3 million of the total valuation allowance at December 31, 2008. The impact of new accounting standards on determining pension and other postretirement benefit plans’ expense may have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company adopted SFAS No. 158 in December 2006 and the statement of financial position reflects the impacts of this accounting standard. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering the second part of its review of accounting for pension and postretirement benefit plans. This second phase of this project may result in changes to the current manner in which pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs are expensed. These changes could result in higher pension and other postretirement costs. There are risks associated with the Company’s global strategy of using joint ventures and partially owned subsidiaries. The Company’s strategy includes expanding its global footprint through the use of joint ventures and other partially owned subsidiaries. These entities operate in countries outside of the U.S., are generally less well capitalized than the Company and bear risks similar to the risks of the Company. However, there are specific additional risks applicable to these subsidiaries and these risks, in turn, add potential risks to the Company. Such risks include: somewhat greater risk of sudden changes in laws and regulations which could impact their competitiveness, risk of joint venture partners or other investors failing to meet their obligations under related shareholders’ agreements and risk of being denied access to the capital markets which could lead to resource demands on the Company in order to maintain or advance its strategy. The Company’s outstanding notes and primary credit facility contain cross default provisions in the event of certain defaults by the Company under other agreements with third parties, including certain of the agreements with the Company’s joint venture partners or other investors. In the event joint venture partners or other investors do not satisfy their funding or other obligations and the Company does not or cannot satisfy such obligations, the Company could be in default under its outstanding notes and primary credit facility and, accordingly, be required to repay or refinance such obligations. There is no assurance that the Company would be able to repay such obligations or that the current noteholders or creditors would agree to refinance or to modify the existing arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. For further discussion of access to the capital markets, see above “Capital and Financial Markets; Liquidity.” The two consolidated Chinese joint ventures have been financed in part using multiple loans from several lenders to finance facility construction, expansions and working capital needs. These loans are generally for terms of three years or less. Therefore, debt maturities occur frequently and access to the capital markets is crucial to their ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to support their operations. In connection with its acquisition of Cooper Chengshan, beginning January 1, 2009 and continuing through December 31, 2011, the minority interest partner has the right to sell and, if exercised, the Company has the obligation to purchase, the remaining 49 percent minority interest share at a minimum price of $62.7 million. The minority investment in a tire plant in Mexico, which is not consolidated with the Company’s results, is being funded largely by loans from the Company. The amount of such loans fluctuates with its results of operations and working capital needs and its ability to repay the existing loans is heavily dependent upon successful operations and cash flows. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 