Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The more significant risk factors related to the Company and its subsidiaries follow: The Company is facing heightened risks due to the current business environment. Current global economic conditions may affect demand for the Company’s products, create volatility in raw material costs and affect the availability and cost of credit. These conditions also affect the Company’s customers and suppliers as well as retail customers. A deterioration in the global macroeconomic environment or in specific regions could impact the Company and, depending upon the severity and duration of these factors, the Company’s profitability and liquidity position could be negatively impacted. This may also be the result of increased price competition and product discounts, resulting in lower margins in the business. - 5 - Table of Contents Pricing volatility for raw materials and an inadequate supply of key raw materials could result in increased costs and may affect the Company’s profitability. The pricing volatility for natural rubber and petroleum-based materials contributes to the difficulty in managing the costs of raw materials. Costs for certain raw materials used in the Company’s operations, including natural rubber, chemicals, carbon black, steel reinforcements and synthetic rubber remain volatile. Increasing costs for raw material supplies will increase the Company’s production costs and affect its margins if the Company is unable to pass the higher production costs on to its customers in the form of price increases. Further, if the Company is unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner for any reason, its operations could be interrupted. If the price of natural gas or other energy sources increases, the Company’s operating expenses could increase significantly. The Company’s manufacturing facilities rely principally on natural gas, as well as electrical power and other energy sources. High demand and limited availability of natural gas and other energy sources can result in significant increases in energy costs increasing the Company’s operating expenses and transportation costs. Higher energy costs would increase the Company’s production costs and adversely affect its margins and results of operations. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate sources of energy, its operations could be interrupted. Further, if the price of gasoline increases significantly for consumers, it can affect driving and purchasing habits and impact demand for tires. The Company’s industry is highly competitive, and it may not be able to compete effectively with low-cost producers and larger competitors. The replacement tire industry is a highly competitive, global industry. Some of the Company’s competitors are large companies with relatively greater financial resources. Most of the Company’s competitors have operations in lower-cost countries. Intense competitive activity in the replacement tire industry has caused, and will continue to cause, pressures on the Company’s business. The Company’s ability to compete successfully will depend in part on its ability to balance capacity with demand, leverage global purchasing of raw materials, make required investments to improve productivity, eliminate redundancies and increase production at low-cost, high-quality supply sources. If the Company is unable to offset continued pressures with improved operating efficiencies, its sales, margins, operating results and market share would decline and the impact could become material on the Company’s earnings. The Company may be unable to recover new product and process development and testing costs, which could increase the cost of operating its business. The Company’s business strategy emphasizes the development of new equipment and new products and using new technology to improve quality, performance and operating efficiency. Developing new products and technologies requires significant investment and capital expenditures, is technologically challenging and requires extensive testing and accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. If the Company fails to develop new products that are appealing to its customers, or fails to develop products on time and within budgeted amounts, the Company may be unable to recover its product development and testing costs. If the Company cannot successfully use new production or equipment methodologies it invests in, it may also not be able to recover those costs. The Company is implementing an Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system that will require significant amounts of capital and human resources to deploy. If for any reason this implementation is not successful, the Company could be required to expense rather than capitalize related amounts. Throughout implementation of the system there are also risks created to the Company’s ability to successfully and efficiently operate. The Company conducts its manufacturing, sales and distribution operations on a worldwide basis and is subject to risks associated with doing business outside the U.S. The Company has affiliate, subsidiary and joint venture operations worldwide, including in the U.S., the U.K., Europe, Mexico and the PRC. The Company has two joint venture manufacturing entities, Cooper Chengshan and Cooper Kenda, in the PRC and has continued to expand operations in that country. The Company has also recently increased its investment in a tire manufacturing entity in Mexico that it will begin to consolidate in 2011. There are a number of risks in doing business abroad, including political and economic uncertainty, social unrest, shortages of trained labor and the uncertainties associated with entering into joint ventures or similar arrangements in foreign countries. These risks may impact the Company’s ability to expand its operations in the PRC and elsewhere and otherwise achieve its objectives relating to its foreign operations including utilizing these locations as suppliers to other markets. In addition, compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting foreign laws and regulations, import and export limitations and exchange controls is burdensome and expensive. The Company’s foreign operations also subject it to the risks of international terrorism and hostilities and to foreign currency risks, including exchange rate fluctuations and limits on the repatriation of funds. - 6 - Table of Contents The Company’s results could be impacted by tariffs imposed by the U.S. or other governments on imported tires. The Company’s ability to competitively source tires can be significantly impacted by changes in tariffs imposed by various governments. Other effects, including impacts on the price of tires, responsive actions from other governments and the opportunity for other low cost competitors to establish a presence in markets where the Company participates could also have significant impacts on the Company’s results. The Company’s expenditures for pension and other postretirement obligations could be materially higher than it has predicted if its underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. The Company provides defined benefit and hybrid pension plan coverage to union and non-union U.S. employees and a contributory defined benefit plan in the U.K. The Company’s pension expense and its required contributions to its pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions the Company uses to measure its defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a present value and the inflation rate. The Company could experience increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of its pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate and changes in its assumptions relating to the expected return on plan assets. The Company could also experience increased other postretirement expense due to decreases in the discount rate, increases in the health care trend rate and changes in the health care environment. In the event of declines in the market value of the Company’s pension assets or lower discount rates to measure the present value of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, the Company could experience changes to its Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company is facing risks relating to enactment of healthcare legislation. The Company is facing risks emanating from the enactment of legislation by the U.S. government including the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act which are collectively referred to as healthcare legislation. This major legislation is being enacted over a period of several years and the ultimate cost and the potentially adverse impact to the Company and its employees cannot be quantified at this time. Compliance with regulatory initiatives could increase the cost of operating the Company’s business. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations. Compliance with those laws now in effect, or that may be enacted, could require significant capital expenditures, increase the Company’s production costs and affect its earnings and results of operations. Clean oil directive number 2005/69/EC in the European Union (“EU”) was effective January 1, 2010, and requires all tires manufactured after this date and sold in the EU to use non-aromatic oils. The Company is in compliance with this directive. Additional countries may legislate similar clean oil requirements which could increase the cost of manufacturing the Company’s products. In addition, while the Company believes that its tires are free from design and manufacturing defects, it is possible that a recall of the Company’s tires could occur in the future. A recall could harm the Company’s reputation, operating results and financial position. The Company is also subject to legislation governing occupational safety and health both in the U.S. and other countries. The related legislation can change over time making it more expensive for the Company to produce its products. The Company could also, despite its best efforts to comply with these laws, be found liable and be subject to additional costs because of this legislation. Any interruption in the Company’s skilled workforce could impair its operations and harm its earnings and results of operations. The Company’s operations depend on maintaining a skilled workforce and any interruption of its workforce due to shortages of skilled technical, production and professional workers could interrupt the Company’s operations and affect its operating results. Further, a significant number of the Company’s U.S. and U.K. employees are currently represented by unions. The labor agreement at the Findlay, Ohio operation expires October 2011 and the labor agreement at the Texarkana, Arkansas operations expires January 2012. The labor agreement in Melksham, England expires March 2012. Although the Company believes that its relations with its employees are generally good, the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to successfully maintain its relations with its employees. If the Company fails to extend or renegotiate its collective bargaining agreements with the labor unions on satisfactory terms, or if its unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work disruptions, the Company’s business and operating results could suffer. - 7 - Table of Contents If the Company is unable to attract and retain key personnel, its business could be materially adversely affected. The Company’s business depends on the continued service of key members of its management. The loss of the services of a significant number of members of its management team could have a material adverse effect on its business. The Company’s future success will also depend on its ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled personnel, such as engineering, marketing and senior management professionals. Competition for these employees is intense and the Company could experience difficulty from time to time in hiring and retaining the personnel necessary to support its business. If the Company does not succeed in retaining its current employees and attracting new high quality employees, its business could be materially adversely affected. The Company has a risk of exposure to products liability claims which, if successful, could have a negative impact on its financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Company’s operations expose it to potential liability for personal injury or death as an alleged result of the failure of or conditions in the products that it designs and manufactures. Specifically, the Company is a party to a number of products liability cases in which individuals involved in motor vehicle accidents seek damages resulting from allegedly defective tires that it manufactured. Products liability claims and lawsuits, including possible class action, may result in material losses in the future and cause the Company to incur significant litigation defense costs. Those claims could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The Company is largely self insured against these claims. The Company has a risk due to volatility of the capital and financial markets. The Company periodically requires access to the capital and financial markets as a significant source of liquidity for maturing debt payments or working capital needs that it cannot satisfy by cash on hand or operating cash flows. Substantial volatility in world capital markets and the banking industry may make it difficult for the Company to access credit markets and to obtain financing or refinancing, as the case may be, on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, various additional factors, including a deterioration of the Company’s credit ratings or its business or financial condition, could further impair its access to the capital markets. See also related comments under “There are risks associated with the Company’s global strategy of using joint ventures and partially owned subsidiaries.” Additionally, any inability to access the capital markets, including the ability to refinance existing debt when due, could require the Company to defer critical capital expenditures, reduce or not pay dividends, reduce spending in areas of strategic importance, sell important assets or, in extreme cases, seek protection from creditors. If assumptions used in developing the Company’s strategic plan are inaccurate or the Company is unable to execute its strategic plan effectively, its profitability and financial position could be negatively impacted. In February 2008, the Company announced its strategic plan which contains three imperatives: Build a sustainable, competitive cost position, Drive profitable top line growth, and Build bold organizational capabilities and enablers to support strategic goals. If the assumptions used in developing the strategic plan vary significantly from actual conditions, the Company’s sales, margins and profitability could be harmed. If the Company is unsuccessful in implementing the tactics necessary to execute its strategic plan it can also be negatively impacted. - 8 - Table of Contents The Company may not be able to protect its intellectual property rights adequately. The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to use and protect its proprietary technology and other intellectual property, which generally covers various aspects in the design and manufacture of its products and processes. The Company owns and uses tradenames and trademarks worldwide. The Company relies upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect its intellectual property rights. The steps the Company takes in this regard may not be adequate to prevent or deter challenges, reverse engineering or infringement or other violations of its intellectual property, and the Company may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce its intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some countries may not protect and enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The Company may not be successful in executing and integrating acquisitions into its operations, which could harm its results of operations and financial condition. The Company routinely evaluates potential acquisitions and may pursue acquisition opportunities, some of which could be material to its business. The Company cannot provide assurance whether it will be successful in pursuing any acquisition opportunities or what the consequences of any acquisition would be. Additionally, in any future acquisitions, the Company may encounter various risks, including: • the possible inability to integrate an acquired business into its operations; • diversion of management’s attention; • loss of key management personnel; • unanticipated problems or liabilities; and • increased labor and regulatory compliance costs of acquired businesses. Some or all of those risks could impair the Company’s results of operations and impact its financial condition. The Company may finance any future acquisitions from internally generated funds, bank borrowings, public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities, or a combination of the foregoing. Future acquisitions may involve the expenditure of significant funds and management time. Future acquisitions may also require the Company to increase its borrowings under its bank credit facilities or other debt instruments, or to seek new sources of liquidity. Increased borrowings would correspondingly increase the Company’s financial leverage, and could result in lower credit ratings and increased future borrowing costs. These risks could also reduce the Company’s flexibility to respond to changes in its industry or in general economic conditions. The Company is required to comply with environmental laws and regulations that could cause it to incur significant costs. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, and the Company expects that additional requirements with respect to environmental matters will be imposed on it in the future. Material future expenditures may be necessary if compliance standards change or material unknown conditions that require remediation are discovered. If the Company fails to comply with present and future environmental laws and regulations, it could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production, which could harm its business or results of operations. Environmental laws could also restrict the Company’s ability to expand its facilities or could require it to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses in connection with its manufacturing processes. The realizability of deferred tax assets may affect the Company’s profitability and cash flows. The Company maintains a valuation allowance pursuant to ASC 740, “Accounting for Income Taxes,” on its net U.S. deferred tax asset position. The valuation allowance will be maintained as long as it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset may not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined separately for each taxing jurisdiction in which the Company conducts its operations or otherwise generates taxable income or losses. In the U.S., the Company has recorded significant deferred tax assets, the largest of which relate to products liability, pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. These deferred tax assets are partially offset by deferred tax liabilities, the most significant of which relates to accelerated depreciation. Based upon this assessment, the Company maintains a valuation allowance for the portion of U.S. deferred tax assets exceeding its U.S. deferred tax liabilities. In addition, the Company has recorded valuation allowances for deferred tax assets associated with losses in foreign jurisdictions. The impact of proposed new accounting standards may have a negative impact on the Company’s financial statements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering several projects, including revenue recognition, financial instruments, leasing, and others, which could have an impact on the Company’s financial statements. - 9 - Table of Contents There are risks associated with the Company’s global strategy of using joint ventures and partially owned subsidiaries. The Company’s strategy includes expanding its global footprint through the use of joint ventures and other partially owned subsidiaries. These entities operate in countries outside of the U.S., are generally less well capitalized than the Company and bear risks similar to the risks of the Company. However, there are specific additional risks applicable to these subsidiaries and these risks, in turn, add potential risks to the Company. Such risks include: somewhat greater risk of sudden changes in laws and regulations which could impact their competitiveness, risk of joint venture partners or other investors failing to meet their obligations under related shareholders’ agreements and risk of being denied access to the capital markets which could lead to resource demands on the Company in order to maintain or advance its strategy. The Company’s outstanding notes and primary credit facility contain cross default provisions in the event of certain defaults by the Company under other agreements with third parties, including certain of the agreements with the Company’s joint venture partners or other investors. In the event joint venture partners or other investors do not satisfy their funding or other obligations and the Company does not or cannot satisfy such obligations, the Company could be in default under its outstanding notes and primary credit facility and, accordingly, be required to repay or refinance such obligations. There is no assurance that the Company would be able to repay such obligations or that the current noteholders or creditors would agree to refinance or to modify the existing arrangements on acceptable terms or at all. For further discussion of access to the capital markets, see also related comments under “The Company has a risk due to volatility of the capital and financial markets.” The two consolidated Chinese joint ventures have been financed in part using multiple loans from several lenders to finance facility construction, expansions and working capital needs. These loans are generally for terms of three years or less. Therefore, debt maturities occur frequently and access to the capital markets is crucial to their ability to maintain sufficient liquidity to support their operations. In connection with its acquisition of a controlling interest in Cooper Chengshan, beginning January 1, 2009, and continuing through December 31, 2011, the noncontrolling shareholders have the right to sell and, if exercised, the Company has the obligation to purchase, the remaining 49 percent at a minimum price of $63 million. In 2009, the Company received notification from one of its noncontrolling shareholders of its intention to exercise its put option and after receiving governmental approvals, the Company purchased the 14 percent share for $18 million on March 31, 2010. The remaining shares may be sold to the Company under the put option through December 31, 2011. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 