ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. The risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. We may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.Risks Specific to Our CompanyCompetition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. In all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. Further, distributor consolidation could have a long-term material adverse effect on our business by diminishing our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reducing our ability to manage our pricing effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. These factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive 13Table of Contentswithin our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our Molson Canadian and Coors Light brands in Canada, Miller Lite and Coors Light brands in the U.S., and Carling, Jelen, Staropramen, and Ozujsko brands in Europe represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2013. Additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. Additionally, in our major markets there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol market from beer to wine and spirits. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. As a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products could result in a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our brand portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. Difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decrease in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products.If the Pentland Trust and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders. Pentland Securities (1981) Inc. (the "Pentland Trust") (a company controlled by the Molson family and related parties) and the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust (the "Coors Trust"), which together control more than ninety percent of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. In the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either the Pentland Trust or the Coors Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. Similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. Thus it is possible that the Company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. The interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the Company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders. Our Class B common stock has fewer voting rights than our Class A common stock and holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse impact on Class B stockholders. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our business, liquidity and our financial results. Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. These funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations.We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products. We purchase certain types of packaging 14Table of Contentsmaterials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. Consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other arrangements. The loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, subsequent to ABI's acquisition of Grupo Modelo, we entered into an agreement to accelerate the termination of our MMI joint venture that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which, when consummated, will have an adverse impact on our Canadian volumes. Additionally, Miller Brewing Company (“Miller”) has notified us of its intent to terminate the license agreement between Miller and us in Canada, which, if the termination is upheld or the parties fail to resolve the dispute through negotiation, could have an adverse impact on our Canadian volumes. Further, Tradeteam exclusively handles all of the physical distribution for our products in the U.K., except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. If Tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our U.K. operations that could have an adverse financial impact to our business and financial results.Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. Examples of this are the recent changes in the Canadian tax legislation and U.K. statutory tax rate increases. Failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. Finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. To the extent such views gain traction in regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the Canadian dollar and the European operating currencies such as, but not limited to, British Pound, Euro, Czech Koruna, Croatian Kuna, Serbian Dinar, New Romanian Leu, Bulgarian Lev and Hungarian Forint. We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in Canada and throughout Europe. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD. Increases and decreases in the value of the USD will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. Additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. Further, certain actions by the government of any of the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. To the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted.Our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. We use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical 15Table of Contentsevents (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted.The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property. It is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. Concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. Deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. In addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the Molson or Coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. Further, the success of our Company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Due to a high concentration of unionized workers in Canada, the United Kingdom, and at MillerCoors in the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues. Approximately 60%, 36% and 26% of our Canadian, MillerCoors and U.K. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. In addition, a number of our Central European employees are represented by trade councils. Stringent labor laws in the U.K. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. A labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business and financial results. In our U.S. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products sold through MillerCoors (including our non-U.S. products). That system is increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. To the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on MillerCoors and, consequently, MCBC. Further, in Canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. Additionally, in certain provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as BRI in Ontario and BDL in the Western provinces, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. If provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. An example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. Any negative change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business. We rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. We also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to third-party service providers. If one of these service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. Additionally, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of outside parties attempting to breach our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business or employee information and disruption of our operations.We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. In connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. Additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. Potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of June 30, 2013, the first day of our third quarter, indicated that the fair value of our Europe and Canada reporting units were close to failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. The fair value of the Europe and Canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 11% and 16% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. In 16Table of Contentsaddition, we determined that the fair value of our Jelen and Ostravar indefinite-lived brand intangible assets within our Europe segment were below their respective carrying values as of June 30, 2013. As a result, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $150.9 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2013. The aggregate fair value of the Jelen, Ozujsko and Branik indefinite-lived brands in Europe, at the valuation date, was estimated at approximately 1% in excess of the aggregate carrying value. Further, the fair value of the Molson core brands was estimated at approximately 10% in excess of its carrying value. The Europe and Canada reporting units, and the Jelen, Ozujsko and Branik brands in Europe and Molson core brands in Canada, are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including significant delays in projected macroeconomic recovery or prolonged adverse economic conditions), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. We have also identified risks related to the possible termination of our license agreement with Miller in Canada, which resulted in an impairment of our related definite-lived intangible asset during the fourth quarter 2013. Additionally, the results of our annual testing determined that the indefinite-life classification could no longer be supported for the Ostravar brand. The Ostravar brand has therefore been reclassified as a definite-lived intangible asset and the remaining fair value of the asset will be amortized over its estimated remaining life. Any future impairment of the Jelen, Ozujsko, Branik, Molson or other brands, or reclassification of additional brands from indefinite-lived to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results. There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. The competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. Even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations.Failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. In order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Potential issues associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint ventures competitive transaction terms; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted.Risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. We have entered into several joint ventures, including our MillerCoors joint venture in the United States and Puerto Rico with SABMiller. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. Disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. For example, in December 2013 we sold our interest in our MC Si'hai joint venture in China, following the failure of our partner to meet its obligations in 2012. Additionally, we have entered into an agreement to 17Table of Contentsaccelerate the termination of our MMI joint venture that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which, when consummated, will have an adverse impact on our Canadian volumes and financial results.We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business. The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Our operations outside of North America and the U.K. expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results. We expect our operations outside of North America and the U.K. to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally. In certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences.In addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and U.S. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative impact on our brands and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies.Loss of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our suppliers. Additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. In addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of MCBC brands if production capacity is limited.Failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness. Under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. These include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. Failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. A deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.Risks Specific to the Canada SegmentWe may experience adverse impacts to our Canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall Canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes. If the Canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. Additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in Ontario, Québec, Alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. Further, changes in the Canadian tax legislation, such as the recent increase in beer excise taxes in Quebec, could decrease our net sales. Moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the Canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability.18Table of ContentsIn the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses. Along with ABI and other brewers in Canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents more than 43% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada. Changes to the Industry Standard Bottle Agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. If we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets.Risks Specific to the United States Segment and MillerCoorsWe do not fully control the operations and administration of MillerCoors, which represents our interests in the U.S. beer business. We jointly control MillerCoors with SABMiller and hold a 42% economic interest in the joint venture. While we direct the MillerCoors business through our equal representation on its board of directors (along with SABMiller) and otherwise impact its business activities through our ongoing communication and oversight, MillerCoors’ management is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. As a result, we do not have full control over MillerCoors’ activities. Our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of MillerCoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with SABMiller and factors beyond our control that may affect SABMiller. Additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to MillerCoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. Each party to the MillerCoors joint venture agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in the joint venture for a period of five years from July 1, 2008. With the expiration of the restriction in 2013, both parties to the joint venture are now able to transfer their economic and voting interest. Certain rights of first refusal will apply to any assignment of such interests. Any transfer of ownership interest could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial position, as well as our ongoing internal and external business relationships.MillerCoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products. MillerCoors sells all of its products and our non-U.S. products in the United States to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. Consequently, if MillerCoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Risks Specific to the Europe SegmentWe may not recognize the benefits of the Acquisition. We may not realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The long-term success of the Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating Central Europe's business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of recognizing the potential benefits of the Acquisition include, among others:•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;•unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, procurement, communications and other systems;•possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures betweenCentral Europe's structure and our structure;•failure to retain key customers and suppliers;•unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;•operating risks inherent in Central Europe's business and our business;•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of Molson Coors and Central Europe had achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of Central Europe's business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. Moreover, the markets in which Central Europe operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any further economic downturn affecting Europe could negatively impact Central Europe's business. These markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which Molson Coors has historically operated. If we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the Central Europe business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In such case, our business and financial results may be materially adversely impacted.19Table of ContentsEconomic trends and intense competition in European markets could unfavorably impact our profitability. Our European businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally. As a result of our annual impairment testing, we determined that the fair value of our Jelen and Ostravar indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values as of June 30, 2013. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge in the third quarter of 2013. The decline in fair value of these brands was due, in part, to the continued weakening of the current macro-economic environment in certain European markets. Our impairment testing also indicated risk of additional future impairments of Jelen and other indefinite-lived intangible brands sold in these markets. Additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our European markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. In particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in Europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in Europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. Margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability.In the event that a significant pub chain was to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. We extend credit to pub chains in the U.K., and in some cases the amounts are significant. The continuing challenging economic environment in the U.K. has caused business at on-premise outlets to decrease since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty, if economic conditions do not improve. In the event that one or more significant pub chains were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. Risks Specific to the Molson Coors International SegmentAn inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects. Our ability to grow our MCI segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets. Due to product price, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.Risks Specific to Our Discontinued OperationsIndemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. ("Kaiser") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges. In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. ("FEMSA"). The terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. These indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.20Table of Contents