ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and investing in our common stock involves risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements we may make from time to time. Our success in the gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to manage and frequently introduce innovative products on a timely basis. If we fail to keep pace with rapid innovations in new technologies or product design and deployment, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is dependent on our ability to develop and sell new products that are attractive to casino operators and other gaming enterprises and their customers, for both land-based and online gaming operations. Furthermore, if our land-based or online gaming content does not meet or sustain revenue and profitability expectations, they may be replaced by our competitors' products or removed altogether or we may experience a reduction in fees generated from our arrangements. Therefore, our success depends upon our ability to continue to design, manage and frequently market and update technologically sophisticated land-based and online products that meet our customers' needs regarding ease of use and adaptability, and that are unique and entertaining such that they achieve high levels of 17 Table of Contents player appeal and sustainability. If our competitors develop new game content and technologically innovative products and we fail to keep pace or we are otherwise unable to obtain, maintain or manage the level of complexities arising from new gaming technologies, whether land-based or online, our business could be adversely affected. Further, our land-based products could suffer a loss of floor space to table games or other more technologically advanced games. The demands of our customers and the preferences of the end players are continually changing. There is constant pressure to develop and market new game content and technologically innovative products. Our revenues are dependent on the earning power and life span of our games. We therefore face increased pressure to design and deploy new and successful game content to maintain our revenue and remain competitive. The success of newly introduced technology and products, such as our Pro Series cabinets and ALPHA 2 platform, our iView Display Manager and our mobile and online gaming platform, is dependent on customer and end player acceptance as well as the reliability and performance of our products. Our customers will generally only accept a new product if we can show that it is likely to produce more revenue and net wins than our existing products and our competitors' products. While we feel we have been successful at developing new and innovative products, our ability to do so could be adversely affected by: •a decline in the popularity of our gaming products with end players; •a decision by our customers to reduce the number of gaming devices on their gaming floor; •a decision by our customers or the gaming industry in general to cut back on purchases of new gaming devices or to cancel or return previous orders, content, or systems in anticipation of newer technologies; •an inability to roll out new game content, services or systems, whether land-based or online, on schedule due to delays in regulatory product approval in the applicable jurisdictions; and •an increase in the popularity of our competitors' games. We have invested and intend to continue to invest significant resources in research and development efforts. We invest heavily in a number of areas including product engineering development for game and system-based hardware, software and game content. If a new product does not gain market acceptance, our business could be adversely affected. Most directly, if a product is unsuccessful we could incur losses and also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. There is no assurance that our investments in research and development will lead to successful new technologies or timely new products. Further, our newer products are generally technologically more sophisticated than those we have produced in the past and we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, or if we commit significant resources to upgrades for products that are ultimately unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, because of the sophistication of our newer products and the resources committed to their development, they are generally more expensive to produce. If the increase in the average selling price of these new products is not proportionate to the increase in production cost, in each case as compared to our prior products or, if the average cost of production does not go down over time, whether by reason of long-term customer acceptance, our ability to find greater efficiencies in the manufacturing process as we refine our production capabilities or a general decrease in the cost of the technology, our margins will suffer. 18 Table of Contents Consumer spending on leisure activities is affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, as well as other factors that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Decreases in consumer spending adversely affecting the gaming industry could harm our business, and unfavorable economic conditions have impacted and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our participation games and purchases of our sale games. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumersfdisposable incomes, and thus can be affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, both of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, including recession, economic slowdown, sustained high levels of unemployment, and higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos, whether land-based or online. As a result, we cannot ensure that demand for our products or services will remain constant. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, increasing interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, transportation disruptions, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence, sustained high levels of unemployment or significant declines in stock markets, as well as concerns regarding epidemics and the spread of contagious diseases, could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on leisure activities such as gambling. Any significant or prolonged decrease in consumer spending on leisure activities could greatly affect the gaming industry, causing some or all of our customers to decrease spending or ultimately declare bankruptcy, each of which would adversely affect our business. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could incur losses and also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. Our failure to collect outstanding accounts receivable or the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could negatively impact our business. Development financing loans could adversely impact liquidity or cause us to incur loan losses. We have, and may continue, to incur additional provision for bad debt related to credit concerns on certain receivables. We have offered extended payment terms to certain customers, including those in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, the collection of accounts receivable has become a matter of greater significance. While we believe the increased level of credit offered to customers has allowed us to grow our business, both domestically and internationally, it has also required direct, additional focus of and involvement by management. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry, whether as a result of a general economic downturn or otherwise, and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain capital to finance their ongoing operations and purchase our products and services could adversely affect our revenues and collection of our outstanding receivables. Further, and especially due to the current downturn in the economy, some of our customers may not pay accounts receivable when due, whether as a result of financial difficulties, bankruptcy or otherwise, or because of assertion of sovereign immunity, or other defenses, resulting in increased write-offs for us. In addition, extended payment term arrangements are more prevalent with our customers in foreign jurisdictions which can implicate additional variables not present in our domestic transactions, and there is greater risk that those amounts will not be collected. 19 Table of Contents We have also provided financing for expansion or construction of gaming locations and other business purposes, including amongst other things, to assist customers with upfront payments to obtain gaming licenses abroad. These financing activities subject us to increased credit risk in certain regions, which could be exacerbated by unfavorable economic conditions or other political or economic instability in those regions. In addition, the repayment of these loans by the customer are contingent upon their operating performance which may be affected by delays in regulatory approval, as well as delays in the construction and opening of the individual gaming locations. Without the operation of gaming activities our customers may not be able to repay these loans. For example, we loaned a significant amount to an undercapitalized customer in Italy with limited operations to allow it to make advance payments necessary to obtain gaming licenses. If the customer does not otherwise commence gaming activities it will not be able to repay the loan. Finally, any repayments by these customers may also be affected by disputes that may arise from time to time between us and the customer in question. We have in the past and may in the future incur losses on these types of investments and loans. We monitor our investments and financing activities to assess impairment on a quarterly basis. Our results of operations, liquidity, or financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect on loans or profit from our investments. The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We face competition from a number of companies, some of whom have greater resources, and if we are unable to compete effectively or expand into new markets, our business could be negatively impacted. Competition among wager-based gaming companies is intense and is primarily based on the amount of profit our products generate for our customers in relation to our competitors' products. Additionally, we compete on the basis of price and financing terms made available to customers, the appeal of game content and features to the end player, and the features and functionality of our hardware and software products. There are a number of established, well-financed companies producing both land-based and online gaming products and systems that compete with our products. Some competitors may have access to greater capital resources than we do and as a result may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. Competition in the gaming industry is intense due to the limited number of casino operators and other gaming enterprises and jurisdictions in which they operate. Price, accuracy, reliability, and product features and functions are among the factors affecting a provider's success in selling its products. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is also a competitive factor in our industry and our competitors with larger installed bases of gaming devices may have an advantage in obtaining or retaining more favorable placement than our products. Consolidation among the casino operators and cutbacks in spending by some operators due to the downturn in the economy has increased the level of competition among providers significantly as the amount of capital spend from casino patrons has decreased. Because of the level of competition we face, our success and profitability is dependent in part on our ability to successfully enter new markets as well as new channels of distribution, such as mobile and online gaming. However, because the rate of growth of gaming in North America has diminished and machine replacement is at historically low levels, the competition has only intensified. Any protracted slowdown in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos and continued declines in, or low levels of demand for, machine replacements, or any ability of ours to successfully expand into new channels of distribution such as mobile and online gaming could further heighten the competition we face and adversely affect the demand for our products and our future profits. 20 Table of Contents Unfavorable political developments, weak foreign economies and other risks related to non-U.S. jurisdictions may hurt our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on international markets for a portion of our revenues. As of June 30, 2012, we had approximately $115.1 million of net accounts and notes receivable (current and long-term), or approximately 35 percent of our total net accounts and notes receivable, from customers in foreign countries. We expect that receivables with respect to foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total accounts and notes receivable outstanding. Our business in these markets is subject to a variety of risks, including: •recessions in foreign economies; •expropriation, nationalization and limitation or restriction on repatriation of earnings; •currency exchange fluctuations; •reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; •longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; •difficulties in managing foreign operations; •social, political and economic instability; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •ability to finance foreign operations; •changes in consumer tastes and trends; •tariffs and other trade barriers; •additional costs of compliance with international laws; •acts of war or terrorism; and •U.S. government requirements for export. We also operate in a number of tribal jurisdictions with sovereign immunity that present risks we generally do not encounter in U.S. jurisdictions. We may not be able to attract and retain the management or employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. The competition for qualified personnel in the gaming industry is intense. Our ability to continue to develop new technologies and create innovative products depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented employees. Our future success depends on the retention and continued contributions of our key management, finance, marketing, development and staff personnel, many of whom would be difficult or impossible to replace. Our success is also tied to our ability to recruit additional key personnel in the future. We may not be able to retain our current personnel or recruit any additional key personnel required. The loss of services of any of our personnel or our inability to recruit additional necessary key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Changes in ownership of any of our customers or consolidation within the gaming industry could affect our business. We are heavily dependent on the gaming industry. A decline in demand for our products in the gaming industry could adversely affect our business. Demand for our products is driven primarily by the replacement of existing products as well as the expansion of existing casinos and the opening of new 21 Table of Contents properties in existing and new jurisdictions as well as the opening of new channels of distribution, such as mobile and online gaming. Because a significant portion of our sales come from repeat customers, our business could be affected if one of our customers is sold to or merges with another entity that utilizes the products and services of one of our competitors or that reduces spending on our products or causes downward pricing pressures. Such consolidations could lead to order cancellations or negatively impact pricing and purchasing decisions or result in the removal of some or all of our products. Also, any fragmentation within the industry creating a number of smaller, independent operators with fewer resources could also adversely affect our business as these operators might cause a further slowdown in the replacement cycle for our products or otherwise adjust the number and frequency of orders they place with us to save money. The gaming industry is heavily regulated, and regulatory changes may adversely impact our ability to operate or expand. The manufacture and distribution of gaming devices, development of systems and the conduct of gaming operations, whether land-based or online, are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation by various gaming authorities. Each of our games and systems hardware and software must be approved in each jurisdiction in which it is placed. Our ability to continue to operate in certain jurisdictions or our ability to expand into new jurisdictions or our ability to launch new product offerings could be adversely affected by: •delays in the adoption of or, changes to legislation to permit or expand gaming in new and existing jurisdictions; •unfavorable public referendums, such as referendums to increase taxes on gaming revenues; •unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators; •adverse changes to and new interpretations of existing gaming regulations and findings of non-compliance with applicable gaming regulations; •delays in approvals from regulatory agencies; •a limitation, conditioning, suspension or revocation of any of our gaming licenses or approvals of our games or system hardware or software; •unfavorable determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities with respect to our officers, directors, major stockholders or key personnel; and •the adoption of new laws and regulations, or the repeal or amendment of existing laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, internet gaming. The enactment of unfavorable legislation or government efforts affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, whether land-based or online, such as referendums to increase gaming taxes or requirements to use local distributors, would likely have a negative impact on our operations. Public opinion can also exert a significant influence over the regulation of the gaming industry. A negative shift in the public's perception of gaming could affect future legislation in individual jurisdictions. Among other things, such a shift could cause jurisdictions to abandon proposals to legalize gaming, thereby limiting the number of new jurisdictions into which we could expand. Negative public perception could also lead to new restrictions on or the prohibition of gaming in jurisdictions in which we currently operate. Although the jurisdictions in which we operate vary in their specific requirements, virtually all jurisdictions, including those into which we may expand in the future, require licenses, permits, qualification documentation, including evidence of integrity and financial stability, and other forms of approval to engage in gaming operations or the manufacture and distribution of gaming devices. In 22 Table of Contents addition, any license, permit or approval may be revoked, suspended or conditioned at any time. Our officers, directors, major stockholders, and key personnel are also subject to significant regulatory scrutiny. If regulatory authorities determine that any person is unsuitable to work in the gaming industry, we could be required to terminate our relationship with that person. To our knowledge, we and our key personnel have obtained, or applied for, all government licenses and approvals necessary to conduct our activities in the jurisdictions that we operate. However, there can be no assurance those licenses or approvals will be renewed in the future, or that new forms of approval necessary to operate will be granted. Compliance with environmental, data privacy, health and safety laws and regulations, including new regulations requiring higher standards, may increase our costs, limit our ability to utilize our current supply chain, and force design changes to our products. These changes could reduce the net realizable value of our inventory, which would result in an immediate charge to our consolidated income statements. Non-compliance could negatively impact our operations and financial position as a result of fines, penalties, and the cost of mandated remediation or delays to our manufacturing. Our intellectual property protections may be insufficient to properly safeguard our technology. The gaming industry is constantly employing new technologies in both new and existing markets. We rely on a combination of patent and other technical security measures to protect our products, and continue to apply for patents protecting such technologies. Notwithstanding these safeguards, our competitors may still be able to obtain our technology or imitate our products. Furthermore, others may independently develop products similar or superior to ours. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement or invalidity. Expenses incurred with respect to monitoring, protecting, and defending our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Competitors and others may infringe on our intellectual property rights, or may allege that we have infringed on theirs. Monitoring infringement and misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We may also incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, reducing our ability to fund product initiatives. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flows and results of operations. We have in the past and are currently subject to litigation regarding patent infringement which, if resolved adversely to us, could have a material impact on our business. If we are found to infringe on the rights of others we could be required to discontinue offering certain products or systems, to pay damages, or purchase a license to use the intellectual property in question from its owner. Litigation can also distract management from the day-to-day operations of the business. There can be no assurances that certain of our products, including those with currently pending patent applications, will not be determined to have infringed upon an existing third party patent. 23 Table of Contents The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products or entering new markets. The gaming industry is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies, which requires us to continuously introduce new products and expand into new markets that may be created. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into markets that may be created by new technologies. If technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our financial condition, operating results or prospects may be harmed. In addition, our business is dependent in part on the intellectual property of third parties. For example, we license trademarks and other intellectual property from third parties for use in our gaming products. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain licenses to use new marks and our ability to retain or expand existing licenses for certain products. If we are not able to obtain new licenses or renew or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of such products that use the licensed marks and our financial condition, operating results or prospects may be harmed. Our gaming products, particularly our wide area progressive networks, centrally determined systems and our mobile and online gaming platform, may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our products. All of our products are designed with security features to prevent fraudulent activity. However, we cannot guarantee that these features will effectively stop all fraudulent or subversive activities. If our security features do not prevent these types of activities, we could adversely be affected. To the extent any of our products experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our products may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including shutting down our products, suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses or disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our products, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. Systems, network, telecommunications or other technological failures or cyber-attacks may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on operations. Any disruption in our network or telecommunications services could affect our ability to operate our gaming or financial systems, which would results in reduced revenues and customer down time. Our networks are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, break-ins, cyber-attacks, network penetration, data privacy or security breaches, denial of service attacks and similar events. Despite our implementation of what we believe to be reasonable and adequate network security measures and data protections safeguards, our servers and computer resources are vulnerable to viruses, malicious software, hacking, break-ins or theft, third-party security breaches, employee error or malfeasance, and other potential compromises. Anyone that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential or proprietary information, including that of third parties, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any of the foregoing matters related to unauthorized access to or tampering with our systems or networks in any such event could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results or prospects. 24 Table of Contents Our online gaming products are part of a new and evolving industry, which presents significant uncertainty and business risks. Online gaming is a nascent industry. The success of this industry and our online gaming products such as our mobile and online gaming platform will be affected by future developments in social networks, mobile platforms, regulatory developments, data privacy laws and regulations and other factors that we are unable to predict or control. This environment can make it difficult to plan and can provide opportunities for competitors to grow revenues at our expense. Consequently, our future revenues related to our online gaming products may be difficult to predict and we cannot provide any assurance that these products will gain market acceptance, that they will generate revenues at the rates we expect or will be successful in the long run. Our credit agreement imposes significant restrictions. Failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of our debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. Our credit agreement contains covenants that restrict our ability and certain of our subsidiaries to (among other things): •dispose of assets; •incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions; •enter into certain acquisitions; •repurchase equity interests or subordinated indebtedness; •issue or sell equity interests of our subsidiaries; and •engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with such financial ratios, meet our debt service obligations, or reduce our total debt is dependent upon our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such restrictions and limitations, or that they will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that would otherwise be in our interest. A breach of any of our covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios under the credit agreement or under any replacement credit agreement could result in a default under such credit agreement. In the event of a default, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding under such credit agreement, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, as well as require us to apply all available cash to repay the amounts. If we were unable to repay the indebtedness upon its acceleration, the lenders could proceed against the underlying collateral. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay the amount in full, that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the indebtedness or that we would be able to obtain a waiver to cure the default. Current borrowings, as well as potential future financings, may substantially increase our current indebtedness. No assurance can be given that we will be able to generate the cash flows necessary to permit us to meet our fixed charges and payment obligations with respect to our debt. We could be required to 25 Table of Contents incur additional indebtedness to meet these fixed charges and payment obligations. Incurring additional debt could: •adversely affect our ability to expand our business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures; •adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; and •create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Any inability to service our fixed charges and payment obligations, or the incurrence of additional debt, would have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and business generally. An inability to maintain sufficient liquidity could negatively affect expected levels of operations and new product development. Future revenue may not be sufficient to meet operating, product development and other cash flow requirements. Sufficient funds to service our debt and maintain new product development efforts, and expected levels of operations may not be available. Additional capital, if and when needed by us, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to carry out our planned product development efforts and level of operations. Our reported results can be affected adversely by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements. Our financial reporting complies with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"), and U.S. GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules, or interpretations of existing rules, require us to change our financial reporting (including the proposed lease accounting changes and the adoption of international financial reporting standards ("IFRS") in the United States), our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially, including requirements to restate historical financial reporting. As an example, the adoption of IFRS could affect many of our financial ratios and covenant compliance calculations under our credit agreement. We may or may not be successful in changing the original financial ratios based on U.S. GAAP with our lenders, and if successful, we may incur additional costs in updating our credit agreement for these new ratios. As we introduce new products and transactions become increasingly complex, additional analysis and judgment is required to account for and recognize revenues in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Transactions may include multiple element arrangements and/or software components and applicable accounting principles could further change the timing of revenue recognition and could adversely affect our financial results for any given period. Fluctuations may occur in our deferred revenues and reflect our continued shift toward more multiple element contracts that include systems and software. Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, and compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. For example, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure requirements related 26 Table of Contents to the source of certain "conflict minerals" for issuers for which such "conflict minerals" are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the proposed rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as "3TG." Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The rules require us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if we know or have reason to believe any of the minerals used in the production process may have originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. If we are not able to determine the minerals did not originate from a covered country or conclude that there is no reason to believe that the minerals used in the production process may have originated in a covered country, we would be required to perform supply chain due diligence on members of our supply chain. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these new requirements could be substantial. These new requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our financial results vary from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact our business. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are not within our control. These factors include, among others: •the financial strength of the gaming industry; •consumers' willingness to spend money on leisure activities; •the timing and introduction of new products; •the mix of products sold; •the timing of significant orders from and shipments to or installations by customers; •product pricing and discounts; •the timing of acquisitions of other companies and businesses or dispositions; and •general economic conditions. In certain sales of new gaming machines and the placement of participation gaming machines, we have offered free gaming machines and free conversions, while at the same time we continue to charge our customers for gaming machines and conversions upgrade kits. We cannot be sure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the number of free gaming machines and conversions we are expected to offer to our customers, which would decrease the revenue we expect to receive and reduce our gross profit. Our gross margins are impacted in a given period by a number of different factors. For example, our gross margins would be adversely affected by both decreases to the average selling prices of our units or our average daily revenue from gaming operations. The introduction of new products can also impact gross margins. Increases to our costs of products sold, whether from higher material costs due to the fluctuating commodities markets, higher labor costs, increased freight charges reflecting escalating energy prices or the use of higher-priced technology in newer products, can also have a negative impact on gross margins. These and other factors are likely to cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. In addition, such fluctuations could cause us to be unable to comply with the financial ratios in our credit agreement. 27 Table of Contents Business combinations and investments in intellectual properties or affiliates may not achieve the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction, which could materially affect our financial results. We have invested, and may continue to invest, in strategic business combinations and acquisitions of important business technologies and intellectual property that we believe will expand our geographic reach, product lines, and/or customer base. Those combinations and acquisitions and any future such transactions may present difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and products, or may prove to be less valuable than the price we paid because of, among other things, a failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements or because of the assumption of liabilities in an acquisition, including unforeseen or contingent liabilities in excess of the amounts estimated. In addition, acquisitions can divert management's attention from day-to-day operations and may include substantial transaction costs. We also may encounter difficulties applying our internal controls to an acquired business. Any of these events or circumstances may have an adverse effect on our business by requiring us to, among other things, record substantial impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. Moreover, as we continue to evaluate our business and assess our long-term strategic goals, we will also evaluate past and potential investments to determine how they will fit into our organizational structure. If an event or change occurs in affiliate relationships or agreements associated with business combinations, we may be required to reassess cash flows, recoverability, useful lives, and fair value measurements, which may result in material impairment charges. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, Nevada law, and the regulatory burdens attendant to ownership, could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our Company that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue special shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of special shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. As a Nevada corporation, we are also subject to certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law that have anti-takeover effects and may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, our Board of Directors. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company, including an acquisition in which the stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 