ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below. If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors described below actually occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing industry. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible to predict the impact of all these factors on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We face competition from a number of companies, some of whom have greater resources, and if we are unable to compete effectively or expand into new markets, our business could be negatively impacted. Competition in the gaming industry is intense. There is a limited number of gaming operators and jurisdictions in which we can operate. We compete on the basis of price and financing terms made available to customers, the appeal of game content and features to the end player, and the features and functionality of our products. There are many established companies that compete with our products. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is also a competitive factor in our industry and our competitors with larger installed bases of gaming devices may have an advantage in obtaining or retaining more favorable placement than our products. Some competitors may have access to greater capital resources than we do and as a result may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. Consolidation among the gaming operators and cutbacks in spending by some operators due to the downturn in the economy has increased the level of competition among gaming suppliers significantly as the amount of capital spend from casino customers has decreased. Because of the level of competition we face, our success and profitability is dependent in part on our ability to successfully enter new markets as well as new channels of distribution, such as mobile and online gaming. However, because the rate of growth of gaming in North America has diminished and machine replacement is at historically low levels, the competition has only intensified. Any protracted slowdown in the establishment of new gaming jurisdictions or delays in the opening of new or expanded casinos and continued declines in, or low levels of demand for, machine replacements, or any ability of 21 Table of Contents ours to successfully expand into new channels of distribution such as mobile and online gaming could further heighten the competition we face and adversely affect the demand for our products and our future profits. The gaming industry is highly regulated and failure to obtain or maintain our licenses could be disruptive to our business and could adversely affect our operations. We are subject to regulation in all jurisdictions in which our customers operate and are also subject to regulation in many jurisdictions in which we conduct our online business. As a result of such regulation, we or our officers, directors, major shareholders, key employees, customers or vendors may need to be licensed, approved or found suitable. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability, character and suitability of such individuals and entities in gaming operations. For example, we have established due diligence procedures that we undertake on customers and vendors. If any of these individuals or entities are determined to be unsuitable, we may be required to sever our relationship or not enter into the proposed business relationship. If we do not obtain and maintain all such licenses, approvals or findings of suitability, or if we fail to seek, do not receive or receive a revocation of such a license, approval or finding of suitability in a particular jurisdiction, we will not be able to do business in that jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Similarly, our products are subject to extensive regulation under federal, state, local and foreign laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business. For example, failure to meet the required federal, state or foreign testing standards, a breach of any such testing standards or failure to comply with the laws, rules and regulations regarding the distribution of our products could result in disciplinary action or the revocation, suspension or conditioning of our licenses, registrations, permits or approvals. Doing business with any individual or entity considered unsuitable or non-compliant with any of the laws, rules or regulations applicable to our products or our online business in any jurisdiction could result in civil or criminal fines or disciplinary actions or the revocation, suspension or conditioning of our licenses, approvals or findings of suitability. Regulators have wide ranging powers. A fine, disciplinary action or the loss or suspension of a license or approval in one jurisdiction could have a similar effect in other jurisdictions in which we are licensed. Such event could limit or eliminate our ability to continue our operations, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Legislative and regulatory changes could negatively affect our business and the business of our customers. New or revised legislation or regulation, including, without limitation, changes to online laws, may affect demand for or place limitations on the placement of our products. Such changes could affect us in a variety of ways. For example, current regulations in a number of jurisdictions where our customers operate, such as Macau SAR, limit the amount of space allocated to our products and substantial changes in those regulations may adversely affect demand for our products. Our business may also suffer if our products become obsolete or barriers of entry are created due to changes in laws or the regulatory framework. Legislative or regulatory changes negatively impacting the gaming industry as a whole or our customers in particular could also decrease the demand for our products. Opposition to gaming could result in restrictions or even prohibitions on gaming operations in any jurisdiction. Tax matters, including changes in state, federal or other tax legislation or assessments by tax authorities, could have a negative impact on our business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our existing or proposed business, our results of operation or financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Changes in the demand of our products could affect our business. We are dependent on the gaming industry. A decline in demand for our products in the gaming industry could adversely affect our business. Demand for our products is driven primarily by the replacement of existing products as well as the expansion of existing casinos and the opening of new properties in existing and new jurisdictions as well as the opening of new channels of distribution, such as mobile and online gaming. Because a significant portion of our sales come from a limited number of customers, our business could be affected if one of our customers is sold to or merges with another entity that utilizes the products and services of one of our competitors or that reduces spending on our products or causes downward pricing pressures. Such consolidations could lead to order cancellations or negatively impact pricing and purchasing decisions or result in the removal of some or all of our products. Also, any fragmentation within the industry creating a number of smaller, independent operators with fewer resources could also adversely affect our business as these operators might cause a further slowdown in the replacement cycle for our products or otherwise adjust the number and frequency of orders they place with us to save money. Unfavorable changes in consumer spending on leisure activities could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus can be affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, both of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, including recession, economic slowdown, sustained high levels of unemployment, and higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos, whether land-based or online. As a result, there can be no assurance that demand for our products or services will remain constant. Continued or renewed adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, decreased liquidity in many financial markets, increasing interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, transportation disruptions, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence, sustained high levels of unemployment or significant declines in stock markets, as well as concerns regarding epidemics and the spread of contagious diseases, could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on leisure activities such as gambling. Any significant or prolonged decrease in consumer spending on leisure activities could greatly affect the gaming industry, causing some or all of our customers to decrease spending or ultimately declare bankruptcy, each of which would adversely affect our business. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our products currently in development may not achieve commercial success and we may not be able to maintain a competitive technological position. Our success depends on our ability to keep pace with technological advances in our industry and to adapt and improve our products in response to evolving customer needs and industry trends. As a result, we expect to continue to make significant investments in product development. While we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product development and technology opportunities, there can be no assurance that such products or technologies will come to fruition or become successful or that we will realize a return on such investments. Our development of products is dependent on multiple factors. There is competition in our industry for talented employees, which means that our product development may be impacted by our not having the necessary qualified employees. We may not have sufficient research and development resources, including the necessary financial resources. A number of products are being tested and we cannot provide any definite date by which they will be commercially available or at all. These products may not prove to be commercially viable and even if they do, we may not be able to meet the various gaming 23 Table of Contents testing standards and otherwise obtain the required licenses, approvals or findings of suitability necessary to distribute them to our customers. Additionally, subsequent to the commercial introduction of such products, we may experience operational or technical problems that could delay or defeat the ability of such products to generate the anticipated revenue or operating profits or at all. Future technologies developed by our competitors may render our current products less desirable, profitable or viable. We may not have available the financial and other resources to compete effectively against such competitors, which may, among other things, render our products obsolete or reduce their commercial value. Future operational or technical problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our success. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products, if any, will meet evolving industry standards, consumer demands, market acceptance and player appeal. Should we be unable to adapt to such technological changes, offer such products on a timely basis or establish or maintain a competitive position, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Further, our newer products are generally technologically more sophisticated than those we have produced in the past and we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, or if we commit significant resources to upgrades for products that are ultimately unsuccessful, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, because of the sophistication of our newer products and the resources committed to their development, they are generally more expensive to produce. If the increase in the average selling price of these new products is not proportionate to the increase in production cost, in each case as compared to our prior products or, if the average cost of production does not go down over time, whether by reason of long-term customer acceptance, our ability to find greater efficiencies in the manufacturing process as we refine our production capabilities or a general decrease in the cost of the technology, our margins will suffer and could negatively impact our business, results of operation or financial condition. Our revenues are dependent on our intellectual property rights. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from products, technologies and services that incorporate our intellectual property. We own or have rights to numerous patents, trademarks and copyrights. There can be no assurance that all of our intellectual property would be found, or will continue to be, valid or enforceable, or that any pending intellectual property applications will be approved. The intellectual property we own or have rights to could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Competitors may infringe our intellectual property and, due to inadequate resources or other reasons, we may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights. The interpretation of intellectual property laws regarding the validity of intellectual property by courts and governmental authorities could negatively affect the validity or enforceability of our current or future intellectual property. This could have multiple negative impacts upon the marketability of, or anticipated revenue from, certain of our products. Additionally, because of the differences in intellectual property laws, our intellectual property may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as it would in the United States. Our failure to possess, obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. To the extent technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding 24 Table of Contents into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others limit us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, we may be forced to enter into licensing arrangements in order to utilize such technology, be delayed in introducing such technology into the market or incur unexpected research and development expenses to develop alternative technologies. In some cases, the obtaining of the intellectual property rights of others, either by royalty, licensing or settlement agreements, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We have many competitors in both the United States and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies. Some competitors have applied for and obtained, and may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that may prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our products or technologies. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we generally require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. There can be no assurance that these agreements are fully enforceable or that they will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of an unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Our intellectual property protections may be insufficient to properly safeguard our technology. The gaming industry is constantly employing new technologies in both new and existing markets. We rely on a combination of patent and other technical security measures to protect our products, and continue to apply for patents protecting such technologies. Notwithstanding these safeguards, our competitors may still be able to obtain our technology or imitate our products. Furthermore, others may independently develop products similar or superior to ours. We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information, but we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets or proprietary information will be honored. Despite various confidentiality agreements and other trade secret protections, our trade secrets and proprietary know-how could become known to, or independently developed by, competitors. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement or invalidity. Expenses incurred with respect to monitoring, protecting, and defending our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Competitors and others may infringe on our intellectual property rights, or may allege that we have infringed on theirs. Monitoring infringement and misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We may also incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, reducing our ability to fund product initiatives. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flows and results of operations. We have in the past and are currently subject to litigation regarding patent infringement which, if resolved adversely to us, could have a material impact on our business. If we are found to infringe on the rights of others we could be required to discontinue offering certain products or systems, to pay damages, or purchase a license to use the intellectual property in question from its owner. Litigation can also distract management from the day-to-day operations of the business. There can be no assurance that certain of our products, including those with currently pending patent applications, will not be determined to have infringed upon an existing third party patent. 25 Table of Contents The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products or entering new markets. The gaming industry is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies, which requires us to continuously introduce new products and expand into new markets that may be created. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into markets that may be created by new technologies. If technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of new technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. In addition, our business is dependent in part on the intellectual property of third parties. For example, we license trademarks and other intellectual property from third parties for use in our gaming products. Our future success may depend upon our ability to obtain licenses to use new trademarks and intellectual property and our ability to retain or expand existing licenses for third party trademarks and intellectual property. If we are not able to obtain new licenses or renew or expand existing licenses, we may be required to discontinue or limit the use of our products that use the licensed trademarks or intellectual property and our business, results of operation or financial condition may be adversely affected. Litigation regarding our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, intellectual property, results of operation or financial condition. A significant portion of our success depends on the protection of our intellectual property. We are making and in the future may make claims of infringement, invalidity or enforceability against third parties. For example, with the emergence of online gaming, we have increased avenues to seek enforcement against parties that infringe our intellectual property. This enforcement could: • cause us to incur greater costs and expenses in the protection of our intellectual property; • potentially negatively impact our intellectual property rights; • cause one or more of our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property interests to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid; and • divert management's attention and our resources. In addition, third parties may allege claims of infringement, invalidity or enforceability against us or against our licensees or manufacturers in connection with their use of our technology. A successful challenge to or invalidation of one of our patents, copyrights or trademarks, a successful claim of infringement by a third party against us, our products, or one of our licensees in connection with the use of our technology, or an unsuccessful claim of infringement made by us against a third party or its products could adversely affect our business or cause us financial harm. Any claim could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend or require us to pay significant amounts in damages; • cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign, reengineer, rebrand our products or limit our ability to bring new products to the market in the future; • require us to enter into royalty, licensing or settlement agreements in order to obtain the right to use a product, process or component; 26 Table of Contents • impact the commercial viability of the products that are the subject of the claim during the pendency of such claim; or • require us by way of injunction to have to remove products on lease or stop selling or leasing new products. Economic conditions that have an adverse effect on the gaming industry will adversely affect our business, results of operation or financial condition. Our business operations are concentrated in a single industry that is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. A downturn in the economy or in a region constituting a significant source of our customers, or a reduction in demand for gaming, may harm our financial condition or that of our customers. We cannot predict the effect or duration of an economic slowdown or the timing or strength of any subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or in the gaming industry, or the impact such slowdown may have on the demand for gaming. For example, weak economic conditions are adversely affecting tourism and spending in Atlantic City resulting in casino closings and an increase in bankruptcy reorganizations. In addition, if players have less disposable income to spend on gaming or if our customers are unable to devote resources to purchasing, leasing or licensing our products, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Such events include, without limitation: • adverse economic and market conditions, including fluctuating interest rates, higher airfares, energy and gasoline prices; • political events such as terrorist attacks, acts of war, political instability and international economic crisis; and • natural disasters such as major fires, floods, hurricanes and epidemics. Such events may make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and may cause our customers to slow their spending on our products. Our success depends on our customers leasing, buying or licensing our products for their existing operations, replacing their existing gaming products or equipping their new casinos or online operations. Any slowdown in the replacement cycle as a result of a downturn in the gaming industry may negatively impact our operations. If the domestic and foreign markets for our products significantly deteriorate, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Economic, political, legal and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our operating results. Our sales to customers outside the United States, primarily Canada, Europe, Australia and Asia accounted for approximately 19% of our consolidated revenue in fiscal 2014. Accordingly, our business results could be harmed by a variety of factors associated with our doing business internationally, including, without limitation: • tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • changes in tax laws or application of such tax laws; • labor regulations, staffing and management of widespread operations; • requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances, intercompany payments and restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; • collectability of receivables and recoverability of residual values on leased assets resulting in increased write-offs; • our ability to repossess our equipment or products in the event of a lease default; and • restrictions on our ability to operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in foreign jurisdictions. 27 Table of Contents Unfavorable political developments, weak foreign economies and other risks related to non-U.S. jurisdictions may hurt our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on international markets for a portion of our revenues. As of June 30, 2014, we had approximately $132.4 million of net accounts and notes receivable (current and long-term), or approximately 36 percent of our total net accounts and notes receivable, from customers in foreign countries. We expect that receivables with respect to foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total accounts and notes receivable outstanding. Our business in these markets is subject to a variety of risks, including: • recessions in foreign economies; • expropriation, nationalization and limitation or restriction on repatriation of earnings; • currency exchange fluctuations; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; • longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing foreign operations; • social, political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • ability to finance foreign operations; • changes in consumer tastes and trends; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • additional costs of compliance with international laws; • acts of war or terrorism; and • U.S. government requirements for export. We are, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings that could materially adversely affect us. We are currently engaged in litigation on a variety of matters that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and additional claims or disputes may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings are subject to significant uncertainty and, regardless of the merit of the claims, litigation may be expensive, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations and distracting to management. In recognition of these considerations, we may enter into agreements to settle litigation or other claims or disputes. Although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against us for amounts in excess of management's expectations, our results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Further, such outcome could result in significant compensatory, punitive or trebled monetary damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, payment of attorneys' fees and costs, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief against us, all of which could have a material impact on our business, intellectual property, results of operation or financial condition. Our gaming products may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success partially depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our products or technology. We incorporate security features into the design of our products and technology in order to prevent us and our customers from 28 Table of Contents being defrauded. To the extent any of our products or software experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our products or software may give rise to claims by our customers or by our customers' patrons, including claims by our customers for lost revenues and related litigation. Software bugs or malfunctions, errors in distribution or installation of our software, failure of our products to perform as approved by the appropriate regulatory bodies, or other errors or malfunctions, may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including fines, the requirement to remove such products or software from commercial use, suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses and disciplinary action. Further, in the event of such issues, substantial engineering and marketing resources and expenditures may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. All of the foregoing could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Systems, network, telecommunications or other technological failures or cyber-attacks may disrupt our business and have an adverse effect on operations. Any disruption in our network or telecommunications services could affect our ability to operate our gaming or financial systems, which would results in reduced revenues and customer down time. Our networks are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, break-ins, cyber-attacks, network penetration, data privacy or security breaches, denial of service attacks and similar events. Despite our implementation of what we believe to be reasonable and adequate network security measures and data protections safeguards, our servers and computer resources are vulnerable to viruses, malicious software, hacking, break-ins or theft, third-party security breaches, employee error or malfeasance, and other potential compromises. Anyone that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential or proprietary information, including that of third parties, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any of the foregoing matters related to unauthorized access to or tampering with our systems or networks in any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any disruption in our manufacturing processes, any significant increase in manufacturing costs or any inability to manufacture a sufficient number of our products to meet demand could adversely affect us. We manufacture our products in Las Vegas, Nevada, as well as in our facility in Milperra, Australia. We also outsource the manufacturing of certain of our sub-assemblies in the United States, Europe and Asia. Should any of these manufacturing processes be disrupted, we cannot provide assurance that we would be able to timely remedy such disruption and accordingly may not be able to timely meet our business obligations or otherwise meet customer demand, all of which could negatively affect our revenues. To the extent we rely on a single source for any of our components used in our manufacturing process, any disruption to such source may result in a disruption to our manufacturing process and we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to timely remedy such disruption. In either of such cases, we may be unable to produce a sufficient quantity of our products to meet the demand of our customers for our products or technology. The impact of all of the foregoing is magnified and will continue to increase as we have and continue to streamline our supply chain management by narrowing the number of our suppliers. Further, manufacturing costs may unexpectedly increase and we may not be able to successfully recover any or some of such cost increases by increased pricing to our customers. Such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation or financial condition. In addition, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain "conflict 29 Table of Contents minerals" for issuers for which such "conflict minerals" are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the proposed rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as "3TG." Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The rules require us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if we know or have reason to believe any of the minerals used in the production process may have originated from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. If we are not able to determine the minerals did not originate from a covered country or conclude that there is no reason to believe that the minerals used in the production process may have originated in a covered country, we would be required to perform supply chain due diligence on members of our supply chain. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these new requirements could be substantial. These new requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. We could face considerable business and financial risks in investigating and implementing acquisitions. As part of our overall growth strategy, we may seek to acquire assets or businesses. We regularly discuss and investigate possible acquisitions. We may incur significant expenses with our due diligence efforts in connection with potential acquisitions. Additionally, these due diligence efforts divert management's attention in the negotiation and investigation of such acquisitions. We may not be successful in consummating acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Such acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant expenditures of cash, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or an increase in amortization expenses. An acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies we anticipate for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation: • the integration of the operations, financial reporting, internal controls, technologies, products and employees, including issues raised by national, geographic and cultural differences; • potential impairments in acquired assets; • entry into markets or acquisition of products or technologies with which we have limited or no prior experience; • expenses associated with any potential or unknown legal liabilities; • management of worldwide operations and diversion of management's attention away from our existing business; and • the exploitation of acquired intellectual property or the development, sale or lease of acquired products or unanticipated increases in manufacturing expenses. The risks associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operation. Our acquisition of SHFL may not achieve the intended benefits or may disrupt our current plans and operations. The risks associated with the SHFL acquisition could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the businesses of Bally and SHFL or do so within the intended time-frame or 30 Table of Contents otherwise realize the expected benefits of the merger for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to: • disruption of our combined businesses, including loss of management focus and diverted attention from the day-to-day operation of our combined businesses; • problems retaining key employees; • additional operating expenses as a result of the integration of operations; • the potential impairment of tangible assets, such as inventory, and intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisition; • the potential impairment of customer and other relationships as a result of the integration of operations; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired products, technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the difficulty of integrating accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management of our expanded operations, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the difficulty of integrating internal controls, procedures and policies; • potential unknown liabilities associated with SHFL; • for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • expected cost synergies associated with the merger may not be fully realized in the anticipated amounts, within the contemplated time-frames or at all, which could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on the combined company's financial results and prospects. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We could face considerable business and financial risk in implementing the Dragonplay acquisition. Our acquisition of Dragonplay (see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, Subsequent Events) may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate, and may not perform as expected for a variety of reasons, including: • difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, products and employees, including those caused by national, geographic and cultural differences; • risks of entering markets in which we have limited prior experience; • risks of uncertainty and changing customer preferences in the online social gaming market; • retention and maintenance of customer user base; • risks associated with the development, infringement and enforcement of intellectual property in the online social gaming market; • potential loss of employees; • currency fluctuations or changes in exchange rates in connection with customer users paying in foreign currencies; 31 Table of Contents • diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; and • expenses of any undisclosed or potential legal liabilities. Our online gaming products are part of a new and evolving industry, which presents significant uncertainty and business risks. Online gaming, including social gaming, is a relatively new industry that continues to evolve. The growth of the online industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. As we grow our online business, our success will require significant investments in developing the business including costs and expenses related to hardware and infrastructure technology, legal compliance such as privacy and regulatory laws, employees and entry into jurisdictions in which we have not previously operated. The success of our online gaming products such as our mobile and online gaming platform will be affected by future developments in social networks, mobile platforms, regulatory developments, data privacy laws and regulations and other factors that we are unable to predict or control. Evolving laws and regulations regarding data privacy could adversely impact opportunities for growth in our online gaming products, and could result in additional compliance-related costs. This environment can make it difficult to plan and can provide opportunities for competitors to grow revenues at our expense. Consequently, our future revenues related to our online gaming products may be difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that these products will gain market acceptance, or that they will generate revenues at the rates we expect or will be successful in the long run or at all. In addition, as we expand online product offerings, there may be unintended adverse effects on our existing games and systems business. The online industry is highly competitive. Our success depends on our ability to develop products that have player appeal and keep pace with technological advances in the industry. As a result, online revenues are speculative. As with any new product line, revenues are unpredictable and we cannot provide assurance that our online offerings will provide a return on our investment or at all, or be successful in the long term. Dragonplay's online social gaming business is largely dependent upon its relationships with service providers and changes in those relationships could negatively impact our social gaming business. Dragonplay's online social gaming business operates largely through GooglePlay's Android platform, Apple's IOS platform and Facebook. Consequently, our operating platform, growth prospects and future revenues from our online social gaming business are dependent on our continued relationships with Google, Apple and Facebook. While Dragonplay has historically maintained good relationships with Google, Apple and Facebook, our online social gaming business would suffer if we are unable to continue any or all of these relationships in the future. In addition, our relationships are not governed by contracts with Google, Apple and Facebook, but rather by their standard terms and conditions for application developers. Each of these service providers may modify their terms and conditions as well as their privacy policies from time to time, and any future changes, including any changes required as a result of government regulation, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation or financial condition. For example, if Google, Apple or Facebook were to increase the fees they charge application developers, our gross profit and operating income would suffer. Additionally, if users were to limit our ability to use their personal information, if Google, Apple or Facebook were to develop competitive offerings, either on its own or in cooperation with another competitor, or if Google, Apple or Facebook were to alter its operating platform to our detriment, our growth prospects would be negatively impacted. 32 Table of Contents Our credit agreement imposes significant restrictions. Failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of our debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. Our credit agreement contains covenants that restrict our ability and certain of our subsidiaries to (among other things): • dispose of assets; • incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • enter into certain acquisitions; • repurchase equity interests or subordinated indebtedness; • issue or sell equity interests of our subsidiaries; and • engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, our credit agreement requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with such financial ratios, meet our debt service obligations, or reduce our total debt is dependent upon our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such restrictions and limitations, or that they will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that would otherwise be in our interest. A breach of any of our covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios under the credit agreement could result in a default. In the event of a default, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, as well as require us to apply all available cash to repay the amounts. If we were unable to repay the indebtedness upon its acceleration, the lenders could proceed against the underlying collateral. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay the amount in full, that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the indebtedness or that we would be able to obtain a waiver to cure the default. Current borrowings, as well as potential future financings, may substantially increase our current indebtedness. No assurance can be given that we will be able to generate the cash flows necessary to permit us to meet our fixed charges and payment obligations with respect to our debt. We could be required to incur additional indebtedness to meet these fixed charges and payment obligations. Incurring additional debt could: • adversely affect our ability to expand our business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures; • adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; and • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Any inability to service our fixed charges and payment obligations, or the incurrence of additional debt, would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk of increased interest rates. The indebtedness under our Senior Credit Facility has variable rates of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates. We have entered into floating-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements to fix a portion of the floating LIBOR-based debt of the Secured Credit Facility; however, if interest rates were to increase, the interest payment obligations under our remaining variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed remained the same which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. An inability to maintain sufficient liquidity could negatively affect our strategic objectives. Future revenue may not be sufficient to meet operating, product development and other cash flow requirements. Sufficient funds to service our debt and maintain new product development efforts, and expected levels of operations may not be available. Additional capital, if and when needed by us, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risk. We transact business in numerous countries around the world and expect that a significant portion of our business will continue in international markets. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our leases and sales, purchases of inventory, and assets, liabilities and debt denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Consolidated revenues from customers outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies was approximately $231.8 million in fiscal 2014 which is approximately 19% of consolidated revenues. Because our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate revenues and earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues and earnings. As such, we expect our revenues and earnings to continue to be exposed to the risks that may arise from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Our failure to collect outstanding accounts receivable or the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could negatively impact our business. Development financing loans could adversely impact liquidity or cause us to incur loan losses. We have, and may continue, to incur additional provision for bad debt related to credit concerns on certain receivables. We have offered extended payment terms to certain customers, including those in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, the collection of accounts receivable has become a matter of greater significance. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry, whether as a result of a general economic downturn or otherwise, and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain capital to finance their ongoing operations and purchase our products and services could adversely affect our revenues and collection of our outstanding receivables. Further, some of our customers may not pay accounts receivable when due, whether as a result of financial difficulties, bankruptcy or otherwise, or because of assertion of sovereign immunity, or other defenses, resulting in increased write-offs for us. We have also provided financing for expansion or construction of gaming locations and other business purposes, including amongst other things, to assist customers with upfront payments to obtain gaming licenses abroad. These financing activities subject us to increased credit risk in certain regions, which could be exacerbated by unfavorable economic conditions or other political or economic instability in those regions. In addition, the repayment of these loans by the customer are contingent upon their operating performance which may be affected by delays in regulatory approval, as well as delays in the construction and opening of the individual gaming locations. Without the operation of gaming activities our customers may not be able to repay these loans. Finally, any repayments by these customers may 34 Table of Contents also be affected by disputes that may arise from time to time between us and the customer in question. We have in the past and may in the future incur losses on these types of investments and loans. We monitor our investments and financing activities to assess impairment on a quarterly basis. Our results of operations, liquidity, or financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect on loans or profit from our investments. Our ability to compete depends in part on the continued availability and service of qualified employees. Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of qualified employees. Experienced employees in the gaming, online, social and the technology industries are in high demand. The loss of employees or the inability to hire additional talented employees as necessary could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement employees could be time-consuming and expensive and cause additional disruptions to our business. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. Labor disputes may have an adverse effect on our operations. Certain of our service employees have voted to form a local labor union in New York and the Company has entered into good faith negotiations to reach a collective bargaining agreement with those employees. While we believe our relations with our employees are satisfactory, we cannot predict whether we will be successful in negotiating a collective bargaining agreement without any disruptions in the servicing of our products in the New York lottery locations. Adverse labor relations or contract negotiations that do not result in an agreement could result in strikes, slowdowns or impose additional costs to resolve these disputes. These disruptions may negatively impact our business or results of operation or our customers' operations or could cause us to lose customers. These disruptions may also impact our ability to recruit and retain personnel. Risks Related to the Pending Acquisition of the Company by Scientific Games Our recently announced acquisition of the Company by Scientific Games may not be consummated. It is not certain that we will be acquired by Scientific Games: (1) there is risk that the conditions to the closing of the Merger will not be satisfied (including a failure of the Company's shareholders to approve, on a timely basis or otherwise, the Merger or that the regulatory approvals required for the Merger will not be obtained, on a timely basis or otherwise, or are obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated); (2) uncertainties exist as to the timing of the consummation of the Merger and the ability of each of the Company and Scientific Games to consummate the Merger; (3) other potential bidders may make competitive responses to the proposed Merger; (4) Scientific Games may be unable to obtain, on a timely basis or otherwise, the necessary debt financing arrangements set forth in the commitment letters received in connection with the Merger; and (5) legislative, regulatory and economic developments may impact the ability of the Company and Scientific Games to consummate the Merger. In addition, if the acquisition is not completed, the Company may be required, in certain circumstances, to pay a termination fee equal to approximately $80 million and the Company would not realize any of the anticipated benefits of having completed the acquisition. We can give no assurance that the conditions to the Merger will be satisfied. The Company is subject to litigation initiated in connection with the Merger, which could be time consuming and divert the resources and the attention of management. The Company and the individual members of our Board of Directors have been named as defendants in certain lawsuits relating to the Merger Agreement and the proposed Merger, and may be named in additional lawsuits relating to the Merger Agreement and the proposed Merger. The lawsuits filed to 35 Table of Contents date generally allege that the directors breached their fiduciary duties by engaging in a flawed sales process, by approving an inadequate price, and by agreeing to provisions that would allegedly preclude another interested buyer from making a financially superior proposal to acquire the company. The defense of any such lawsuits, and any additional lawsuits relating to the Merger Agreement and the proposed Merger, may be expensive and may divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect the Company's business results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be disrupted while the acquisition by Scientific Games is pending or if the acquisition is not consummated. The proposed transaction may disrupt the current plans and operations of the Company. To date, the Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the Merger, and these fees and costs are payable by the Company whether or not the Merger is consummated. Furthermore, we cannot predict how our suppliers, customers and other business partners will view or react to the pending Merger and some may be hesitant to do business with us in light of uncertainties about our ability to perform due to our recently announced pending acquisition by Scientific Games. If we are unable to reassure our customers, suppliers and other business partners to continue transacting business with us, our financial results may be adversely affected. Whether or not the Merger is completed, prior to its completion, it may be difficult for us to retain and recruit employees in vital areas. We are also subject to restrictions, without the consent of Scientific Games, on the conduct of our business prior to the consummation of the Merger as provided in the Merger Agreement, including, among other things, certain restrictions on our ability to make certain capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions, sell, transfer or dispose of our assets, enter into certain contracts with customers, amend our organizational documents and incur indebtedness. These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities, result in our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future opportunities and may otherwise harm our business, results of operation and financial condition. In the event the Merger is not consummated, the price of our stock may be affected. Our closing stock price was $60.17 on July 31, 2014, and closed at $77.70 on August 1, 2014, after announcement of the acquisition. The increase in the stock price is primarily due to the premium to be paid related to the acquisition. In the event our previously announced acquisition by Scientific Games is not consummated, the price of our common shares may be adversely affected. If the Merger is not completed or we are not otherwise acquired, we may consider other strategic alternatives which are subject to risks and uncertainties. If the Merger is not completed, our Board of Directors will review and consider various alternatives available to us, including, among others, continuing as a public company with no material changes to our business or capital structure, returning capital to stockholders, seeking a minority investment from a strategic or financial partner or attempting to implement a sale to either a financial or strategic buyer. These alternative transactions may involve various additional risks to our business, including, among others, distraction of our management team and associated expenses as described above in connection with the proposed Merger, our ability to consummate any such alternative transaction, the valuation assigned to our business in any such alternative transaction, our ability or a potential buyer's ability to access capital on acceptable terms or at all and other variables which may adversely affect our operations. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 