ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and investing in our common stock involves risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements, before making an investment decision. We have identified the following important risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements we may make from time to time. Our success in the gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to develop innovative products. If we fail to keep pace with rapid innovations in new technologies or product design and deployment, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is dependent on our ability to develop and sell new products that are attractive to casino operators and other gaming enterprises and their customers. Furthermore, if our gaming devices deployed in gaming operations do not meet or sustain revenue and profitability expectations they may be replaced by our competitors' products. Therefore, our success depends upon our ability to continue 17 to design and market technologically sophisticated products that meet our customers' needs regarding ease of use and adaptability, and that are unique and entertaining such that they achieve high levels of player appeal and sustainability. If our competitors develop new game content and technologically innovative products and we fail to keep pace, our business could be adversely affected. There is no assurance that our investments in R&D will lead to successful new technologies or timely new products. The demands of our customers and the preferences of the end players are continually changing. There is constant pressure to develop and market new game content and technologically innovative products. Our revenues are dependent on the earning power and life span of our games. We therefore face increased pressure to design and deploy new and successful game themes to maintain our revenue and remain competitive. While we feel we have been successful at developing new and innovative products, our ability to do so could be adversely affected by: •a decline in the popularity of our gaming products with end players; •a decision by our customers or the gaming industry in general to cut back on purchases of new gaming devices or to cancel or return previous orders, content, or systems in anticipation of newer technologies; •an inability to roll out new games, services or systems on schedule due to delays in regulatory product approval in the applicable jurisdictions; and •an increase in the popularity of competitors' games. The success of newly introduced technology and products, such as our ALPHA 2 OS and Pro Series cabinets, is dependent on customer and end player acceptance as well as the reliability and quality performance. If a product does not gain market acceptance, we could incur losses and also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. Further, our newer products are generally technologically more sophisticated than those we have produced in the past and we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our product innovation. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. Consumer spending on leisure activities is affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, as well as other factors that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Decreases in consumer spending adversely affecting the gaming industry could harm our business, and unfavorable economic conditions have impacted and could continue to negatively impact the play levels of our participation games and purchases of our sale games. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities tends to be highly sensitive to consumers' disposable incomes, and thus can be affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, both of which are difficult to predict and beyond our control. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, including recession, economic slowdown, sustained high levels of unemployment, and higher fuel or other transportation costs, may reduce disposable income of casino patrons or result in fewer patrons visiting casinos. As a result, we cannot ensure that demand for our products or services will remain constant. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, increasing interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, transportation disruptions, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence, sustained high levels of unemployment or significant declines in the stock market, as well as concerns regarding epidemics and the spread of contagious diseases, could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on leisure activities such as gambling. Any significant or prolonged decrease in consumer spending on leisure activities could greatly affect the gaming industry, causing some or all of our customers to decrease spending or ultimately declare bankruptcy, each of which would adversely affect 18 our business. If we experience a significant unexpected decrease in demand for our products, we could incur losses and also be required to increase our inventory obsolescence charges. The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We face competition from a number of companies, some of whom have greater resources, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted. Competition among gaming machine manufacturers is intense and is primarily based on the amount of profit our products generate for our customers in relation to our competitors' products. Additionally, we compete on the basis of price and financing terms made available to customers, the appeal of game content and features to the end player, and the features and functionality of our hardware and software products. There are a number of established, well-financed companies producing gaming devices, game content and systems that compete with our products. Some competitors may have access to greater capital resources than we do and as a result may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. Competition in the gaming industry is intense due to the limited number of providers, as well as the limited number of casino operators and jurisdictions in which they operate. Price, accuracy, reliability, and product features and functions are among the factors affecting a provider's success in selling its products. Obtaining space and favorable placement on casino gaming floors is also a competitive factor in our industry. Consolidation among the casino operators and cutbacks in spending by some casino operators due to the downturn in the economy has increased the level of competition among providers significantly as the amount of capital spend from visiting customers has decreased. Our failure to collect outstanding accounts receivable or the deterioration of the financial condition of our customers could negatively impact our business. Development financing loans could adversely impact liquidity or cause us to incur loan losses. We have offered extended payment terms to certain customers. As a result, the collection of accounts receivable has become a matter of greater significance. While we believe the increased level of credit offered to customers has allowed us to grow our business, it has also required direct, additional focus of and involvement by management. A decline in the relative health of the gaming industry and the difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain capital to finance their ongoing operations and purchase our products and services could adversely affect our revenues and collection of our outstanding receivables. Further, and especially due to the current downturn in the economy, some of our customers may not pay accounts receivable when due, whether as a result of financial difficulties, bankruptcy or otherwise, or because of assertion of sovereign immunity, or other defenses, resulting in increased write-offs for us. We have provided financing for expansion or construction of gaming locations and other business purposes, including locations abroad. These financing activities subject us to increased credit risk in certain regions, which could be exacerbated by unfavorable economic conditions or other political or economic instability in those regions. We monitor our investments and financing activities to assess impairment on a quarterly basis. We have in the past and may in the future incur losses on these types of investments and loans. Our results of operations, liquidity, or financial position may be negatively impacted if we are unable to collect on loans or profit from our investments. Changes in ownership of any of our customers or consolidation within the gaming industry could affect our business. We are heavily dependent on the gaming industry. A decline in demand for our products in the gaming industry could adversely affect our business. Demand for our products is driven primarily by the replacement of existing products as well as the expansion of existing casinos and the opening of new properties in existing and new jurisdictions. Because a significant portion of our sales come from repeat 19 customers, our business could be affected if one of our customers is sold to or merges with another entity that utilizes the products and services of one of our competitors or that reduces spending on our products or causes downward pricing pressures. Such consolidations could lead to order cancellations, slow the replacement cycle or negatively impact pricing and purchasing decisions. Also, any fragmentation within the industry creating a number of smaller, independent operators with fewer resources could also adversely affect our business as these operators might cause a further slowdown in the replacement cycle for our products or otherwise adjust the number and frequency of orders they place with us to save money. Unfavorable political developments, weak foreign economies and other foreign risks may hurt our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on international markets for a portion of our revenues. As of June 30, 2010, we had approximately $90.8 million of net accounts and notes receivable (current and long-term), or 38 percent of our total net accounts and notes receivable, from customers in foreign countries. We expect that receivables with respect to foreign sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues. Our business in these markets is subject to a variety of risks, including: •recessions in foreign economies; •expropriation, nationalization and limitation on repatriation of earnings; •currency exchange fluctuations; •reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; •longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; •difficulties in managing foreign operations; •social, political and economic instability; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •ability to finance foreign operations; •changes in consumer tastes and trends; •tariffs and other trade barriers; •additional costs of compliance with international laws; •acts of war or terrorism; and •U.S. government requirements for export. We may not be able to attract or retain the management or employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. The competition for qualified personnel in the gaming industry is intense. Our ability to continue to develop new technologies and create innovative products depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented employees. Our future success depends on the retention and continued contributions of our key management, finance, marketing, development and staff personnel, many of whom would be difficult or impossible to replace. Our success is also tied to our ability to recruit additional key personnel in the future. We may not be able to retain our current personnel or recruit any additional key personnel required. The loss of services of any of our personnel or our inability to recruit additional necessary key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 20 The gaming industry is heavily regulated, and regulatory changes may adversely impact our ability to operate or expand. The manufacture and distribution of gaming devices, development of systems and the conduct of gaming operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation by various gaming authorities. Our ability to continue to operate in certain jurisdictions or our ability to expand into new jurisdictions could be adversely affected by: •delays in adopting legislation to permit or expand gaming in new and existing jurisdictions; •unfavorable public referendums, such as referendums to increase taxes on gaming revenues; •unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators; •adverse changes in or findings of non-compliance with applicable governmental gaming regulations; •delays in approvals from regulatory agencies; •a limitation, conditioning, suspension or revocation of any of our gaming licenses; •unfavorable determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities with respect to our officers, directors, major stockholders or key personnel; and •the adoption of new laws and regulations, or the repeal or amendment of existing laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, internet gaming. Public opinion can also exert a significant influence over the regulation of the gaming industry. A negative shift in the public's perception of gaming could affect future legislation in individual jurisdictions. Among other things, such a shift could cause jurisdictions to abandon proposals to legalize gaming, thereby limiting the number of new jurisdictions into which we could expand. Negative public perception could also lead to new restrictions on or the prohibition of gaming in jurisdictions in which we currently operate. Although the jurisdictions in which we operate vary in their specific requirements, virtually all jurisdictions, including those into which we may expand in the future, require licenses, permits, qualification documentation, including evidence of integrity and financial stability, and other forms of approval to engage in gaming operations or the manufacture and distribution of gaming devices. Our officers, directors, major stockholders, and key personnel are also subject to significant regulatory scrutiny. If regulatory authorities determine that any person is unsuitable to work in the gaming industry, we could be required to terminate our relationship with that person. To our knowledge, we and our key personnel have obtained, or applied for, all government licenses and approvals necessary to conduct our activities in the jurisdictions that we operate. However, there can be no assurance those licenses or approvals will be renewed in the future, or that new forms of approval necessary to operate will be granted. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including new regulations requiring higher standards, may increase our costs, limit our ability to utilize our current supply chain, and force design changes to our products. These changes could reduce the net realizable value of our inventory, which would result in an immediate charge to our consolidated income statements. Non-compliance could negatively impact our operations and financial position as a result of fines, penalties, and the cost of mandated remediation or delays to our manufacturing. Our intellectual property protections may be insufficient to properly safeguard our technology. The gaming industry is constantly employing new technologies in both new and existing markets. We rely on a combination of patent and other technical security measures to protect our products, and continue to apply for patents protecting such technologies. Notwithstanding these safeguards, our 21 competitors may still be able to obtain our technology or imitate our products. Furthermore, others may independently develop products similar or superior to ours. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement or invalidity. Expenses incurred with respect to monitoring, protecting, and defending our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Competitors and others may infringe on our intellectual property rights, or may allege that we have infringed on theirs. Monitoring infringement and misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We may also incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, reducing our ability to fund product initiatives. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flows and results of operations. We are currently subject to litigation regarding patent infringement which, if resolved adversely to us, could have a material impact on our business. If we are found to infringe on the rights of others we could be required to discontinue offering certain products or systems, to pay damages, or purchase a license to use the intellectual property in question from its owner. Litigation can also distract management from the day-to-day operations of the business. There can be no assurances that certain of our products, including those with currently pending patent applications, will not be determined to have infringed upon an existing third party patent. The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products or entering new markets. The gaming industry is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies, which requires us to continuously introduce new products and expand into new markets that may be created. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into markets that may be created by new technologies. If technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our financial condition, operating results or prospects may be harmed. Our gaming operations, particularly our wide area progressive networks and centrally determined systems, may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our products. To the extent any of our products experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our products may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses or disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our products, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. Our bank loan agreement imposes significant restrictions. Failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of our debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. Our bank loan agreement contains covenants that restrict our ability and certain of our subsidiaries to (among other things): •dispose of assets; 22 •incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions; •enter into certain acquisitions; •repurchase equity interests or subordinated indebtedness; •issue or sell equity interests of our subsidiaries; and •engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, our bank loan agreement requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with such financial ratios, meet our debt service obligations, or reduce our total debt is dependent upon our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such restrictions and limitations, or that they will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that would otherwise be in our interest. A breach of any of our covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios under the bank loan agreement or under any replacement loan agreement could result in a default under such loan agreement. In the event of a default, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding under such loan agreement, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, as well as require us to apply all available cash to repay the amounts. If we were unable to repay the indebtedness upon its acceleration, the lenders could proceed against the underlying collateral. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay the amount in full, that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the indebtedness or that we would be able to obtain a waiver to cure the default. Current borrowings, as well as potential future financings, may substantially increase our current indebtedness. No assurance can be given that we will be able to generate the cash flows necessary to permit us to meet our fixed charges and payment obligations with respect to our debt. We could be required to incur additional indebtedness to meet these fixed charges and payment obligations. Incurring additional debt could: •adversely affect our ability to expand our business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures; •adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; and •create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Any inability to service our fixed charges and payment obligations, or the incurrence of additional debt, would have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and business generally. An inability to maintain sufficient liquidity could negatively affect expected levels of operations and new product development. Future revenue may not be sufficient to meet operating, product development and other cash flow requirements. Sufficient funds to service our debt and maintain new product development efforts, and expected levels of operations may not be available. Additional capital, if and when needed by us, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to carry out our planned product development efforts and level of operations. 23 Our financial results vary from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact our business. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are not within our control. These factors include, among others: •the financial strength of the gaming industry; •consumers' willingness to spend money on leisure activities; •the timing and introduction of new products; •the mix of products sold; •the timing of significant orders from and shipments to or installations by customers; •product pricing and discounts; •the timing of acquisitions of other companies and businesses or dispositions; and •general economic conditions. In certain sales of new gaming machines and placement of participation gaming machines we have offered free gaming machines and free conversions, while at the same time we continue to charge our customers for gaming machines and conversions upgrade kits. We cannot be sure that competitive pressure will not cause us to increase the number of free gaming machines and conversions we are expected to offer to our customers, which would decrease the revenue we expect to receive and reduce our gross profit. These and other factors are likely to cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. In addition, such fluctuations could cause us to be unable to comply with the financial ratios in our bank loan agreement. Business combinations and investments in intellectual properties or affiliates may not achieve the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of the transaction, which could materially affect our financial results. We have invested in strategic business combinations and acquisitions of important technologies and intellectual property that we believe will expand our geographic reach, product lines, and/or customer base. Those combinations and acquisitions and any future such transactions may present difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies and products, or may prove to be less valuable than the price we paid because of, among other things, a failure to realize anticipated benefits such as cost savings and revenue enhancements or because of the assumption of liabilities in an acquisition, including unforeseen or contingent liabilities in excess of the amounts estimated. In addition, acquisitions can divert management's attention from day-to-day operations and may include substantial transaction costs. We also may encounter difficulties applying our internal controls to an acquired business. Any of these events or circumstances may have an adverse effect on our business by requiring us to, among other things, record substantial impairment charges on goodwill and other intangible assets, resulting in a negative impact on our operating results. Moreover, as we continue to evaluate our business and assess our long-term strategic goals, we will also evaluate past and potential investments to determine how they will fit into our organizational structure. If an event or change occurs in affiliate relationships or agreements associated with business combinations, we may be required to reassess cash flows, recoverability, useful lives, and fair value measurements, which may result in material impairment charges. 24 Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, Nevada law, and the regulatory burdens attendant to ownership, could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our Company that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue special shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of special shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. As a Nevada corporation, we are also subject to certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law that have anti-takeover effects and may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, our Board of Directors. Some of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of Bally, including an acquisition in which the stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 