ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risks. Prospective investors in our common stock should carefully consider, among other things, the following factors and other information contained in this document, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements, prior to making an investment decision. We have identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we may make from time to time. Our success in the gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to develop innovative products and systems. If we fail to keep pace with rapid innovations in product design and deployment, or if we are unable to quickly adapt our development and manufacturing processes to release innovative products or systems, our business could be negatively impacted. Our success is heavily dependent on our ability to develop new products and systems that are attractive not only to our customers, namely casino operators and other gaming enterprises, but also to their customers, the end players. Therefore, our future success depends upon our ability to continue to design and market technologically sophisticated products that meet our customers needs regarding, among other things, ease of use and adaptability, but also that are unique and entertaining such that they achieve high levels of player appeal and sustainability as well. If our competitors continue to develop new game themes and technologically innovative products and systems and we fail to keep pace, our business could be adversely affected. The demands of our customers and the tastes of their customers are continuously changing. As a result, there is constant pressure to develop and market new game themes and technologically innovative products. As our revenues are heavily dependent on the earning power and life span of our games and because newer game themes tend to have a shorter life span than more traditional game themes, we face increased pressure to design and deploy new and successful game themes to maintain our revenue 21 stream and remain competitive. While we feel we have been successful at developing new and innovative products, our ability to do so could be adversely affected by: •a decline in the popularity of our gaming products with players; •a decision by our customers or the gaming industry in general to cut-back on purchases of new games or systems in anticipation of newer technologies; •an inability to roll out new games, services or systems on schedule as a result of delays in connection with regulatory product approval in the applicable jurisdictions, or otherwise; •an increase in the popularity of competitors' games; and •a decline in consumer acceptance of our newest systems innovations. Our success also depends upon our ability to adapt our manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the demands of producing new and innovative products. Because our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated than those we have produced in the past, we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our continuing product innovation. In addition, the shorter lifespan of newer products means we must update our production capabilities more frequently and rapidly than in the past. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We face competition from a number of companies, some of which have greater resources, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted. Bally Gaming and Systems Competition among gaming machine manufacturers is based on, among other things, competitive pricing and financing terms made available to customers, appeal of game themes and features to the end player and product quality, features and functionality of hardware and software. There are a number of established, well-financed companies producing machines that compete with each Bally Gaming and Systems product line in each of their respective markets. While there are several competitors in the field, a single competitor, IGT, dominates the domestic market for gaming machines. Certain of these competitors have access to greater capital resources than we do, and as a result, may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. The casino enterprise systems market is crowded, with IGT and Aristocrat comprising the primary competition. The competition is intense due to the number of providers, as well as the limited number of casino operators and jurisdictions in which they operate. As there has been a recent trend of consolidation among the casino operators, the level of competition among providers has increased significantly as the number of potential customers has decreased. Pricing, product feature and function, accuracy and reliability are among the factors in determining a provider's success in selling its system. Casino Operations Among the principal competitive factors in the casino industry are the stature, age and location of the facility; the nature, variety and quality of the amenities and customer services offered; and the continuous development, implementation and success of a variety of marketing programs. Our Rainbow Casino in Vicksburg, Mississippi faces intense direct competition from other gaming facilities serving the Vicksburg market and, to a lesser degree, indirect competition from those serving the Gulf Coast Region. A new casino project adjacent to the Rainbow Casino is under construction and is scheduled to open in July 2008. There may be other new casinos constructed in the Vicksburg market in the future as previously existing and new Gulf Coast properties continue to open in the aftermath of the 2005 22 hurricane season. As certain of these competitors have only recently opened, customers may be drawn to these properties and their newer facilities and amenities. Moreover, additional potential gaming sites remain in and around Vicksburg. As the overall size of the potential customer base for the Vicksburg market is limited, we also face competition from casinos in nearby locations. These properties may further dilute the market from which we and the other Vicksburg casinos draw most of our patrons. Some of these sites may also be closer to larger population centers and, if developed, may enjoy a competitive advantage over our casino. To the extent there is a change in ownership of any of our customers or further consolidation within the casino industry, our business could be negatively impacted. We are heavily dependent on the casino industry. Demand for our products is primarily driven by the replacement of existing products as well as the expansion of existing casinos and the opening of new properties and new jurisdictions. Events within the industry leading or contributing to a decline in demand for our product, such as mergers or consolidations, could adversely affect our business. Casino operators in the gaming industry are currently undergoing a period of consolidation. The result of this trend is that a smaller number of companies control a larger percentage of our current and potential customer base. Because a significant portion of our sales come from repeat customers, to the extent one of our customers is sold to or merges with an entity that utilizes the products and services of one of our competitors or that reduces spending on our products, or causes downward pricing pressures, our business could be negatively impacted. Business combinations of this nature could lead to a cancellation of orders, slow the replacement cycle or negatively impact pricing and purchasing decisions. We may not be able to attract or retain the management or employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. The competition for qualified personnel in the gaming industry is intense. Our future success depends on the retention and continued contributions of our key management, finance, marketing, and staff personnel, many of whom would be difficult or impossible to replace. Our success is also tied to our ability to recruit additional key personnel in the future. We may not be able to retain our current personnel or recruit any additional key personnel required. The loss of services of any of our personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The gaming industry is heavily regulated and changes in regulation by gaming authorities may adversely impact our ability to operate in our existing markets or expand our business. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines, development of systems and the conduct of gaming operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation by various gaming authorities. Our ability to continue to operate in certain jurisdictions or our ability to expand into new jurisdictions could be adversely affected by: •delays in adopting legislation to permit or expand gaming in new and existing jurisdictions; •unfavorable public referendums, such as referendums to increase taxes on gaming revenues; •unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators; •adverse changes in or findings of non-compliance with applicable governmental gaming regulations, •delays in approvals from regulatory agencies; 23 •a limitation, conditioning, suspension or revocation of any of our gaming licenses; •unfavorable determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities with respect to our officers, directors, major stockholders or key personnel; and •the adoption of new laws and regulations, or the repeal or amendment of existing laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, internet gaming. Public opinion can also exert a significant influence over the regulation of the gaming industry. A negative shift in the public's perception of gaming, whether in individual jurisdictions or on a more general level, could affect future legislation. Among other things, such a shift could cause jurisdictions considering the legalization of gaming to abandon such a proposal, thereby limiting the number of new jurisdictions into which we could expand. Negative public perception could also lead to the implementation of new restrictions in jurisdictions in which we currently operate, thereby adversely affecting our operations. Although the laws, rules and regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate vary in their technical requirements, virtually all jurisdictions, including those into which we may expand in the future, require licenses, permits, qualification documentation, including evidence of integrity and financial stability, and other forms of approval to engage in gaming operations or the manufacture and distribution of gaming machines. Our officers, directors, major stockholders and key personnel are also subject to significant regulatory scrutiny. In the event that gaming or governmental authorities determine that any person is unsuitable to act in such capacity with respect to the Company, we could be required to terminate our relationship with such person. To our knowledge, the Company and our key personnel have obtained, or applied for, all government licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals necessary to conduct their respective activities in the various jurisdictions that we operate. However, there can be no assurance those licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits or approvals will be renewed in the future, or that new forms of approval necessary to operate in emerging or existing markets will be granted. In some jurisdictions, audited financial statements must be filed with the gaming regulatory authorities. The late filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 could generate inquiries from regulators, including possible disciplinary action. Our intellectual property protections may be insufficient to properly safeguard our technology. The gaming industry is constantly employing new technologies in both new and existing markets. We rely on a combination of patent and other technical security measures to protect our products, and continue to apply for patents protecting such technologies. Notwithstanding these safeguards, our competitors may still be able to obtain our technology or imitate our products. Furthermore, others may independently develop products similar or superior to ours. We may be subject to claims of intellectual property infringement or invalidity. Expenses incurred with respect to monitoring, protecting and defending our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Competitors and other third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, or may allege that we have infringed on their rights. Monitoring infringement and misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to detect infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We may also incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, reducing our ability to fund product initiatives. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flows and results of operations. We are currently subject to litigation regarding patent infringement which, if resolved adversely to the Company, could have a material impact on our business. If we are found to infringe on 24 the rights of others we could be required to discontinue offering certain products or systems, to pay damages or purchase a license to use the intellectual property in question from its owner. Litigation can also divert management from the day-to-day operations of the business. There can be no assurances that certain of our products, including those with currently pending patent applications, will not be determined to have infringed upon an existing third party patent. The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products or entering new markets. The gaming industry is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies, which requires us to continuously introduce new products using these technologies and innovations, as well as to expand into new markets that may be created. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into markets that may be created by new technologies. However, to the extent technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our financial condition, operating results or prospects may be harmed. Our gaming operations, particularly our wide area progressive networks and centrally determined systems, may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our products and systems. To the extent any of our gaming machines or software experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products and services with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines or software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses or disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming machines or software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. Our inability to produce and report current financial information in a timely manner could adversely affect our business financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our delay in producing current financial information could limit our access to current financial information regarding our business, results of operations or financial condition, which means that we may not become immediately aware of short term trends or recent developments in our business. This delay could also cause us to miss opportunities to adjust to such trends or developments that would otherwise have been available to us had we had timely access to the financial information. This delay could also prevent us from discovering a default under the financial covenants set forth in our bank loan agreement until well after the default has occurred, thereby eliminating any opportunity we may have had to cure the default. We have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to manage and to report our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows accurately. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could, among other things, adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. In performing our assessment, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over 25 financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2007. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. We have taken and will continue to take certain measures to strengthen our internal controls, as set forth under Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. However, additional work still remains to address the identified material weaknesses. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, or fail to update our internal controls as our business evolves, we may not be able to, among other things, accurately report our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. Any such failure could lead to, among other things, an additional SEC enforcement action, additional securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We face increased costs and have extensive work remaining to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have extensive work remaining to remediate the identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As discussed in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, this work has extended into the 2008 fiscal year and will continue until we are able to remediate the material weaknesses we have identified. These matters have required, and will continue to require, a significant amount of management time and a significant commitment of external resources. The costs of these efforts are substantial and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial performance. The restatements of our consolidated financial statements may subject us to actions or additional litigation which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K we have restated our consolidated financial statements as of and for each of the years in the period ending June 30, 2006 and 2005. In October of 2006, we also restated our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years in the period ending June 30, 2005. These restatements may result in additional scrutiny in our ongoing SEC investigation or to new regulatory actions or civil litigation which could require us to pay fines or other penalties or damages and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The restatements may also result in negative publicity and we may lose or fail to attract and retain key customers, employees and management personnel as a result of these matters. The ongoing SEC investigation could adversely affect us. The SEC is conducting a formal inquiry into certain matters surrounding the allegations relating to the securities class action litigation and our methods of revenue recognition. In accordance with its normal practice, the SEC has not advised us when its investigation may be concluded, and we are unable to predict the outcome of this investigation. While we are cooperating fully with the investigation, adverse developments in connection with the investigation, including any expansion of the scope of the investigation, could negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. In connection with any SEC investigation, it is possible that we will be required to, among other things, pay fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, further restate our financial statements or suffer other penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 26 Certain consequences of our reporting situation under the federal securities laws limits our ability to raise capital. Our past delays in meeting the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws affects our ability to access the capital markets. Now that we have filed all of our delinquent periodic reports, we may make registered offerings of securities; however, until we have filed all of our periodic reports in a timely manner for a period of twelve months, we will be ineligible to use "shelf" registration or "short-form" registration, which allows us to incorporate our periodic reports by reference into our registration statements. Consumer spending on leisure activities is affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, as well as other factors that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. We cannot ensure that demand for our products or services will remain constant. Consumers' willingness to spend money on leisure activities such as gaming is affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, both of which are both difficult to predict and beyond our control. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, increasing interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence or significant declines in the stock market could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on leisure activities adversely affecting our business. Unfavorable political developments, weak foreign economies and other foreign risks may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on international markets for a portion of our revenues. As of June 30, 2007, Bally Gaming and Systems had $22.0 million of receivables, or 13% of our total receivables, from customers in foreign countries. We expect that receivables with respect to foreign sales will continue to account for a portion of our total revenues. As a result, our business in these markets is subject to a variety of risks, including: •recessions in foreign economies; •expropriation, nationalization and limitation on repatriation of earnings; •currency exchange fluctuations; •reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; •longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; •difficulties in managing foreign operations; •social, political and economic instability; •unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; •ability to finance foreign operations; •changes in consumer tastes and trends; •tariffs and other trade barriers; •acts of war or terrorism; and •U.S. government requirements for export. There can be no assurances that any of these international developments, or others, would not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Our bank loan agreement imposes significant restrictions and failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of our debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. When our bank loan agreement comes due, we may not be able to obtain new financing on equal or better terms. Our bank loan agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability and certain of our subsidiaries to: •dispose of assets; •incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; •pay dividends or make other distributions; •enter into certain acquisitions; •repurchase equity interests or subordinated indebtedness; •issue or sell equity interests of our subsidiaries; and •engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, the bank loan agreement requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including certain leverage ratios. Our ability to comply with such ratios, meet our debt service obligations or reduce our total debt is dependent upon our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such restrictions and limitations, or that they will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, or engage in other business activities that would otherwise be in the Company's interest. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the bank loan agreement. In the event of any such default, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding under the bank loan agreement, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, as well as require us to apply all available cash to repay the amounts. If we were unable to repay the indebtedness upon its acceleration, the lenders could proceed against the underlying collateral. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay the amount in full, or that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the indebtedness. The revolving credit facility under our bank loan agreement must be repaid in September 2008, and the term loan facility under our bank loan agreement must be repaid in September 2009. While we do not anticipate difficulties in obtaining new financing in the future, there can be no assurances that we will obtain such financing, or that it will be on equal or better terms than those of our current bank loan agreement. Any new financing may be subject to higher interest rates, may include less favorable financial ratios or may require us to agree to additional or more severe restrictions on our business activities as compared to those of our current bank loan agreement. Virtually all of our debt is subject to variable interest rates; rising interest rates could negatively impact our business. Borrowings under our bank loan agreement bear interest at a variable rate. In addition, we may incur other variable rate indebtedness in the future. Carrying indebtedness subject to variable interest rates makes the Company more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reduces our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Increases in interest rates on this indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to service our debt as well as our ability to grow the business. 28 Current borrowings, as well as potential future financings, may substantially increase our current indebtedness. No assurance can be given that we will be able to generate the cash flows necessary to permit us to meet our fixed charges and payment obligations with respect to our debt. We could be required to incur additional indebtedness to meet these fixed charges and payment obligations. Should we incur additional debt, among other things, such increased indebtedness could: •adversely affect our ability to expand the business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures; •adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; and •create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Any inability to service our fixed charges and payment obligations, or the incurrence of additional debt, would have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and business generally. An inability to maintain sufficient liquidity could negatively affect expected levels of operations and new product development. Future revenue may not be sufficient to meet operating, product development and other cash flow requirements. Sufficient funds to service our debt and maintain new product development efforts and expected levels of operations may not be available, and additional capital, if and when needed by us, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to carry out our planned product development efforts and level of operations, which could harm our business. Our financial results vary from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact our business. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are not within our control. These factors include, among others: •the financial strength of the gaming industry; •consumer's willingness to spend money on leisure activities; •the timing and introduction of new products and services; •the mix of products and services sold; •the timing of significant orders from and shipments to customers; •product and service pricing and discounts; •the timing of acquisitions of other companies and businesses or dispositions; and •general economic conditions. These and other factors are likely to cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Based on the foregoing, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. In addition, such fluctuations could cause us to be unable to comply with the financial ratios in our bank loan agreement. Certain market risks may affect our business, results of operations and prospects. In the normal course of our business, we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements, collectibility of receivables and 29 recoverability of residual values on leased assets. Further, some of our payors may experience financial difficulties, or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, resulting in increased write-offs. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurances can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, which, together with provisions in our restated articles of incorporation and Nevada law, could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our Company that might otherwise result in you receiving a premium over the market price for your common stock. We adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which we distributed one right for each outstanding share of common stock held by stockholders of record as of March 12, 1998. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting a take-over of us without the approval of our Board of Directors, even if such a change in control would result in our stockholders receiving a premium for their shares, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock, without first negotiating with our Board of Directors. Additionally, our restated articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue special shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of special shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. As a Nevada corporation, we are also subject to certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law that have anti-takeover effects and may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, our Board of Directors in connection with such a transaction. However, certain of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company, including an acquisition in which the stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 30 