ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risks. Prospective investors in our common stock should carefully consider, among other things, the following factors and other information contained in this document, including our financial statements and the notes to those statements, prior to making an investment decision. We have identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements we may make from time to time. 23 Our success in the gaming industry depends in large part on our ability to develop innovative products and systems; if we fail to keep pace with rapid innovations in product design and related marketing strategies, or if we are unable to quickly adapt our development and manufacturing processes to release innovative products or systems, our business could be negatively impacted. Our revenues depend on the earning power and life span of our games. Newer game themes tend to have a shorter life span than more traditional game themes, and as a result, we face pressure to design and deploy successful game themes to maintain our revenue stream and to remain competitive. Our future success depends to a large extent upon our ability to continue to design and market technologically sophisticated and entertaining products that achieve high levels of player acceptance. However, our ability to develop new and innovative products could be adversely affected by: · a decline in the popularity of our gaming products with players, · a lack of success in developing new products, services or systems, · an inability to roll out new games, services or systems on schedule as a result of delays in connection with regulatory product approval in the applicable jurisdictions, or otherwise, · an increase in the popularity of competitors’ games, and · a negative change in the trend of consumer acceptance of our newest systems innovations. Our future success also depends upon our ability to adapt our manufacturing capabilities and processes to meet the demands of producing new and innovative products. Because our newer products are generally more technologically sophisticated than those we have produced in the past, we must continually refine our production capabilities to meet the needs of our continuing product innovation. In addition, the shorter lifespan of newer products means that we must update our production capabilities more frequently and rapidly than in the past. If we cannot adapt our manufacturing infrastructure to meet the needs of our product innovations, or if we are unable to make upgrades to our production capacity in a timely manner, our business could be negatively impacted. The gaming industry is intensely competitive. We face competition from a number of companies, some of which have greater resources, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business could be negatively impacted. Bally Gaming and Systems Competition among gaming machine manufacturers is based on, among other things, competitive pricing and financing terms made available to customers, appeal of game themes and features to the end player and product quality, features and functionality of hardware and software. There are a number of established, well-financed companies producing machines that compete with each Bally Gaming and Systems product line in each of the Bally Gaming and Systems markets. While there are a number of competitors in the field, a single competitor, IGT, dominates the domestic market for gaming machines. Certain of these competitors have access to greater capital resources than we do, and as a result, may be better positioned to compete in the marketplace. The casino enterprise systems market is crowded, with IGT, Aristocrat, and, to a lesser extent, Konami and Progressive Gaming Corporation comprising the primary competition. The competition is intense due to the number of providers, as well as the limited number of casino operators and jurisdictions in which they operate. Pricing, product feature and function, accuracy and reliability are amongst the factors in determining a provider’s success in selling its system. 24 Casino Operations The principal competitive factors in the casino industry include the quality and location of the facility, the nature and quality of the amenities and customer services offered, and the implementation and success of marketing programs. Our Rainbow Casino in Vicksburg, Mississippi faces intense direct competition from other gaming facilities serving the Vicksburg market. As the overall size of the potential customer base is limited, competition from casinos in nearby locations may further dilute the market from which Vicksburg casinos draw most of their patrons. Moreover, additional potential gaming sites remain in and around Vicksburg. Some of these sites may be closer to larger population centers and, if developed, may enjoy a competitive advantage over our casino. The unpredictable growth of non-traditional gaming markets may affect our business and prospects. The continued growth of non-traditional gaming markets for gaming machines and systems depends heavily on the public’s acceptance of gaming in these markets, as well as the ongoing development of the regulatory approval process by national and local governmental authorities. A portion of our growth is directly tied to our ability to access these new markets. We cannot predict which new jurisdictions or markets, if any, will approve the operation of electronic gaming machines, the timing of any such approval, the public’s acceptance of our gaming machines in these markets or our market share or profitability in these markets. The competitive contract terms required in non-traditional gaming markets may affect our future revenues. Management believes that customer leasing and financing terms have become increasingly important competitive factors for the Company in non-traditional markets such as Class II and other Native American jurisdictions. We sometimes are required to grant extended payment terms on gaming machines, systems and other gaming equipment to gain entry into a developing market that we would not otherwise extend. While the product normally collateralizes these financings, in an event of default, the resale value of the collateral may be considerably less than the amount financed. Accordingly, we have greater exposure to fluctuations in the financial condition of our customers in emerging markets than has historically been the case in the established markets. To the extent there is a change in ownership of any of our customers or consolidation within the casino industry, our business could be negatively impacted. Casino operators in the gaming industry are currently under going a period of consolidation. The result of this trend is that a smaller number of companies control a larger percentage of our current and potential customer base. Because a significant portion of our sales come from repeat customers, to the extent one of our customers is sold to or merges with an entity that utilizes the products and services of one of our competitors or that reduces spending on our products, our business could be negatively impacted. We may not be able to attract or retain the management or employees necessary to remain competitive in our industry. The competition for qualified personnel in the gaming industry is intense. Our future success depends on the retention and continued contributions of our key management, finance, marketing, and staff personnel, many of whom would be difficult or impossible to replace. Our success is also tied to our ability to recruit additional key personnel in the future. We may not be able to retain our current personnel or recruit any additional key personnel required. The loss of services of any of our personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 25 The gaming industry is heavily regulated and changes in regulation by gaming authorities may adversely impact our ability to operate the business. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines, development of systems and the conduct of gaming operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign regulation by various gaming authorities. Our ability to continue to operate in certain jurisdictions could be adversely affected by: · unfavorable public referendums, · unfavorable legislation affecting or directed at manufacturers or gaming operators, such as referendums to increase taxes on gaming revenues, · adverse changes in or finding of non-compliance with applicable governmental gaming regulations, · delays in approvals from regulatory agencies, · a limitation, conditioning, suspension or revocation of any of our gaming licenses, and · unfavorable determinations or challenges of suitability by gaming regulatory authorities with respect to our officers, directors, major stockholders or key personnel. Although the laws, rules and regulations of the various jurisdictions in which we operate vary in their technical requirements, virtually all jurisdictions requires licenses, permits, qualification documentation, including evidence of integrity and financial stability, and other forms of approval to engage in gaming operations or the manufacture and distribution of gaming machines. Our officers, directors, major stockholders and key personnel are also subject to significant regulatory scrutiny. In the event that gaming or governmental authorities determine that any person is unsuitable to act in such capacity with respect to the Company, we could be required to terminate our relationship with such person. To our knowledge, the Company and our key personnel have obtained, or applied for, all government licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits and approvals necessary to conduct their respective activities in the various jurisdictions that we operate. However, there can be no assurance those licenses, registrations, findings of suitability, permits or approvals will be renewed in the future, or that new forms of approval necessary to operate in emerging or existing markets will be granted. Our intellectual property protections may be insufficient to properly safeguard our technology. The gaming industry is constantly employing new technologies in both new and existing markets. We rely on a combination of patent and other technical security measures to protect our products, and continue to file for patents protecting such technologies. Notwithstanding these safeguards, our competitors may still be able to obtain our technology or to imitate our products. Furthermore, others may independently develop products similar or superior to ours. Expenses incurred with respect to monitoring, protecting and defending our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. Competitors and other third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, or may allege that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights. Monitoring infringement and/or misappropriation of intellectual property can be difficult and expensive, and we may not be able to detect any infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights. We may also incur significant litigation expenses protecting our intellectual property or defending our use of intellectual property, reducing our ability to fund product initiatives. These expenses could have an adverse effect on our future cash flow and results of operations. We are currently subject to litigation regarding patent infringement which, if resolved adversely to the Company, could have a material impact on our business. Litigation can also divert management focus from running the day-to-day operations of the business. There can be no assurances that certain of our products, 26 including those with currently pending patent applications, will not be determined to have infringed upon an existing third party patent. The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new products or entering new markets. The gaming industry is characterized by the rapid development of new technologies, which requires us to continuously introduce new products using these technologies and innovations, as well as to expand into new markets that may be created. Therefore, our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our products and systems to incorporate new technologies and to expand into new markets that may be created by new technologies. However, to the extent technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing products based on these technologies or expanding into new markets created by these technologies. If the intellectual property rights of others prevent us from taking advantage of innovative technologies, our financial condition, operating results or prospects may be harmed. Our gaming operations, particularly our wide area progressive networks and centrally determined systems, may experience losses due to technical difficulties or fraudulent activities. Our success depends on our ability to avoid, detect, replicate and correct software and hardware errors and fraudulent manipulation of our products and systems. To the extent any of our gaming machines or software experience errors or fraudulent manipulation, our customers may replace our products and services with those of our competitors. In addition, the occurrence of errors in, or fraudulent manipulation of, our gaming machines or software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other action by gaming regulatory authorities, including suspension or revocation of our gaming licenses or disciplinary action. Additionally, in the event of such issues with our gaming machines or software, substantial engineering and marketing resources may be diverted from other areas to rectify the problem. Our inability to produce and report current financial information in a timely manner could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. As a result of delays in producing timely financial information, there is limited access to current financial information regarding our business, results of operation or financial condition. This inability to report current financial information to senior management means that we may not become immediately aware of short term trends or recent developments in our business. This delay could cause us to miss certain opportunities to make adjustments in response to such trends or developments that would otherwise have been available to us had we had timely access to the financial information. We also may not become aware of a default under the financial covenants set forth in our bank loan agreement until well after the default has occurred; thereby eliminating any opportunity we may have had to cure the default. Until we restore access to current financial information, our business, results of operation and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our ability to manage and to report our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows accurately. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In performing our assessment, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2006. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. 27 Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. We have taken and will continue to take certain measures to strengthen our internal controls, as set forth under Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. However, additional work remains to be done to address the identified material weaknesses. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation initiatives plan, or fail to update our internal controls as our business evolves or to integrate acquired businesses into our controls system, we may not be able to report accurately our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to report financial information accurately or maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, an additional SEC enforcement action, additional securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence, any one of which could adversely affect our business and prospects. We face increased costs and have extensive work remaining to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have extensive work remaining to remediate the identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As discussed in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, this work has extended into the 2007 fiscal year and will continue until we are able to remediate the material weaknesses we have identified. These matters have required, and will continue to require, a significant amount of management time and a significant commitment of external resources. The costs of these efforts are substantial and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. The restatements of our consolidated financial statements may subject us to actions or additional litigation which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have recently restated our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2005 and 2004, and for each of the three years in the period ending June 30, 2005. These restatements may result in additional scrutiny in our ongoing SEC investigation or to new regulatory actions or civil litigation which could require us to pay fines or other penalties or damages and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The restatements may also result in negative publicity and we may lose or fail to attract and retain key customers, employees and management personnel as a result of these matters. In some jurisdictions, audited financial statements must be filed with the gaming regulatory authorities. The late filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006 could generate inquiries from regulators, including possible disciplinary action. However, the Company has been keeping regulators informed of the situation and has received no indication that any disciplinary action will be filed in any jurisdiction. We have recently reached agreements with respect to the settlement of securities and derivative litigation; however, these agreements are subject to court approval and are not final. We have recently reached agreements, subject to court approval, to settle the federal class action lawsuits and state derivative lawsuits that have been filed against us, as well as certain of our current and former officers, alleging violations of securities laws. However, these agreements are subject to court approval, and therefore are not final. We cannot assure you that the court will approve the agreements. Were the court to reject the agreements reached, we could not determine with certainty whether new agreements would be reached, or if new agreements were not reached, what the outcome or resolution of the claims or the timing of their ultimate resolution would be. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in connection with these lawsuits, until they are resolved, our management’s efforts and attention will be diverted in part from the ordinary business operations. If the agreements are not approved by the court, a 28 court approved settlement is not reached, and the final resolution of any of these lawsuits is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and liquidity might be materially adversely affected if our existing insurance coverage is unavailable or inadequate to resolve the matter. Ongoing SEC investigation could adversely affect us. The SEC is conducting a formal inquiry into certain matters surrounding the allegations relating to the securities class action litigation and our methods of revenue recognition. In accordance with its normal practice, the SEC has not advised us when its investigation may be concluded, and we are unable to predict the outcome of this investigation. While we are cooperating fully with the investigation, adverse developments in connection with the investigation, including any expansion of the scope of the investigation, could negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. In connection with any SEC investigation, it is possible that we will be required to, among other things, pay fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, further restate our financial statements or suffer other penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain consequences of our reporting situation under the federal securities laws may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to raise capital. Our failure to meet the reporting requirements of the federal securities laws affects our ability to access the capital markets. We are restricted in our ability to make any registered offering of securities until we have filed all of our delinquent periodic reports. We are also ineligible to use “short-form” registration that allows us to incorporate by reference our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other SEC reports into our registration statements, or shelf registration until we have filed all of our periodic reports in a timely manner for a period of twelve months. We are also ineligible to use Form S-8 until we have filed all of our delinquent periodic reports. We use Form S-8 to register grants of equity compensation to our employees, including grants in the form of options and restricted stock. The unavailability of Form S-8 reduces our flexibility in granting options and restricted stock to our employees. In addition, the NYSE has broad power to commence delisting proceedings for violations of its rules and may do so at any time. Because we are late in making our SEC filings, the NYSE could commence delisting proceedings against the Company; however, they have not indicated an intention to do so. Consumer spending on leisure activities is affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, as well as other factors that are difficult to predict and beyond our control. We cannot assure you that demand for our products or services will remain constant. Consumers’ willingness to spend money on leisure activities such as gaming is affected by changes in the economy and consumer tastes, both of which are both difficult to predict and beyond our control. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, increasing interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence or significant declines in the stock market could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on leisure activities adversely affecting our business. International operations, unfavorable political developments, weak foreign economies and other foreign risks may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on international markets for a portion of our revenues. As of June 30, 2006, Bally Gaming and Systems had $17.2 million of receivables, or 13% of our total receivables, from customers in foreign countries. We expect that receivables with respect to foreign sales will continue to 29 account for a portion of our total revenues. As a result, our business in these markets is subject to a variety of risks, including: · recessions in foreign economies, · expropriation, nationalization and limitation on repatriation of earnings, · currency exchange fluctuations, · reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, · longer receivables collection periods and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, · difficulties in managing foreign operations, · social, political and economic instability, · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, · ability to finance foreign operations, · changes in consumer tastes and trends, · tariffs and other trade barriers, · acts of war or terrorism, and · U.S. government requirements for export. There can be no assurances that any of these international developments, or others, would not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Our bank loan agreement imposes significant restrictions and failure to comply with these restrictions could result in the acceleration of a substantial portion of our debt, which we may not be able to repay or refinance. Our bank loan agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability and certain of our subsidiaries to: · dispose of assets, · incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock, · pay dividends or make other distributions, · enter into certain acquisitions, · repurchase equity interests or subordinated indebtedness, · issue or sell equity interests of our subsidiaries, and · engage in mergers or consolidations or certain other transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates. In addition, the bank loan agreement requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including certain leverage ratios. Our ability to comply with such ratios, meet our debt service obligations or reduce our total debt is dependent upon our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with such restrictions and limitations, or that they will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs, or engage in other business activities that would otherwise be in the Company’s interest. 30 A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios could result in a default under the bank loan agreement. In the event of any such default, the lenders could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding under the bank loan agreement, together with any accrued interest and other fees, to be due and payable, as well as require us to apply all available cash to repay the amounts. If we were unable to repay the indebtedness upon its acceleration, the lenders could proceed against the underlying collateral. There can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay the amount in full, or that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance the indebtedness. Virtually all of our debt is subject to variable interest rates; rising interest rates could negatively impact our business. Certain borrowings under our bank loan agreement bear interest at a variable rate. In addition, we may incur other variable rate indebtedness in the future. Carrying indebtedness subject to variable interest rates makes the Company more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns, as well as reduces our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Increases in interest rates on this indebtedness would increase our interest expense, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to service our debt and to generally grow the business. Current borrowings, as well as potential future financings, may substantially increase our current indebtedness. No assurance can be given that we will be able to generate the cash flow necessary to permit us to meet our fixed charges and payment obligations with respect to our debt. We could be required to incur additional indebtedness to meet these fixed charges and payment obligations. Should we incur additional debt, among other things, such increased indebtedness could: · adversely affect our ability to expand the business, market our products and make investments and capital expenditures; · adversely affect the cost and availability of funds from commercial lenders, debt financing transactions and other sources; and · create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with lower debt levels. Any inability to service our fixed charges and payment obligations, or the incurrence of additional debt, would have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations and business generally. An inability to maintain sufficient liquidity could negatively affect expected levels of operations and new product development. Future revenue may not be sufficient to meet operating, product development and other cash flow requirements. Sufficient funds to service our debt and maintain new product development efforts and expected levels of operations may not be available, and additional capital, if and when needed by us, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot obtain sufficient capital on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to carry out our planned product development efforts and level of operations, which could harm our business. Our financial results vary from quarter to quarter, which could negatively impact our business. Various factors affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are not within our control. These factors include, among others: · the financial strength of the gaming industry, · consumer’s willingness to spend money on leisure activities, 31 · the timing and introduction of new products and services, · the mix of products and services sold, · the timing of significant orders from and shipments to customers, · product and service pricing and discounts, · the timing of acquisitions of other companies and businesses or dispositions, and · general economic conditions. These and other factors are likely to cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Based on the foregoing, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. In addition, such fluctuations could cause us to be unable to comply with the financial ratios in our bank loan agreement. Certain market risks may affect our business, results of operations and prospects. In the normal course of our business, we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements, collectibility of receivables and recoverability of residual values on leased assets. Further, some of our payors may experience financial difficulties, or may otherwise not pay accounts receivable when due, resulting in increased write-offs. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurances can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, which, together with provisions in our restated articles of incorporation and Nevada law, could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our Company that might otherwise result in you receiving a premium over the market price for your common stock. We adopted a shareholder rights plan pursuant to which we distributed one right for each outstanding share of common stock held by stockholders of record as of March 12, 1998. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting a take-over of us without the approval of our Board of Directors, even if such a change in control would result in our stockholders receiving a premium for their shares, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock, without first negotiating with our Board of Directors. Additionally, our restated articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue special shares from time to time, with such rights and preferences as they consider appropriate. Our Board of Directors could authorize the issuance of special shares with terms and conditions and under circumstances that could have an effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction. As a Nevada corporation, we are also subject to certain provisions of the Nevada General Corporation Law that have anti-takeover effects and may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, our Board of Directors in connection with such a transaction. However, certain of these provisions may discourage a future acquisition of the Company, including an acquisition in which the stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 32 