Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements Factors That May Affect Our Future Results We make forward-looking statements in this Report and in other reports we file with the SEC and in press releases. Our management may make forward-looking statements orally in a public forum to analysts, investors, the media and others. Generally, forward-looking statements include: •Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, capital structure or other financial items •Descriptions of our plans or objectives for future operations, products or services •Forecasts of our future economic performance, interest rates, profit margins and our share of future markets •Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements give management's expectation about the future and are not guarantees. Words like "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "promise," "plan" and other expressions or words of similar meanings, as well as future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," or "may" are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations. Some of these factors are discussed below. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update them to reflect changes that occur after the date they are made. General business, economic, market and political conditions may significantly affect our earnings Our business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the U.S. economy, as well as the local economies in which we conduct business. Our business and earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve Board, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. The Federal Reserve Board's policies influence the size of the mortgage origination market, which significantly impacts the earnings of our Loan Production Sector and the value of our investment in MSRs and retained interests. The Federal Reserve Board's policies also influence the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict and can have a material effect on the Company's business liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Political conditions can also impact our earnings. Acts or threats of war or terrorism, as well as actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response to such acts or threats, could impact business and economic conditions in the United States. Our decision to retain more loans in our portfolio of loans held for investment has increased our credit exposure and could increase our exposure to additional credit losses As a result of disruptions in the debt and secondary mortgage market conditions, we have retained, and expect to continue to retain, more loans in our portfolio held for investment or to hold additional loan or security inventory until market conditions improve. In 2007, we increased our 37 portfolio of loans held for investment by 28.1% to $100.4 billion, compared to $78.3 billion in 2006. These factors may expose us to higher credit losses compared to the past due to a higher proportion of loans held for investment, and may expose us to the potential of increased loan delinquencies and defaults and further write-downs of loans in our held for investment portfolio. We may continue to experience increased credit losses due to downward trends in the economy and in the real estate market and increases in delinquency rates of borrowers Significant disruptions in the U.S. mortgage market and global capital market conditions caused us to reduce our loan products offered, tighten underwriting standards and adjust loan pricing. These actions, along with those of other mortgage lenders, had the effect of reducing the availability of mortgage credit to borrowers. This lack of mortgage credit contributed to a weakening of the housing market and may have contributed to the significant increase in the number of homeowners who became delinquent on their home loans. Continued disruptions in the U.S. mortgage market and global capital market conditions and additional weakening in the housing market could further depress mortgage loan performance and continue to increase our credit costs. Another factor that may contribute to higher delinquency and default rates is the increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Any increase in prevailing market interest rates may result in increased payments for borrowers who have adjustable rate mortgage loans. Moreover, with respect to hybrid mortgage loans after their initial fixed rate period, and with respect to mortgage loans with a negative amortization feature which reach their negative amortization cap, additional borrowers will experience a substantial increase in their monthly payment even without an increase in prevailing market interest rates. The increase in the monthly payment amount increases the risk that borrowers will become delinquent and ultimately default on their loans. Our profitability in our Mortgage Banking, Banking and Capital Markets Segments is impacted by the ability of our customers to repay their loans. Our Banking Segment is impacted if the borrowers in their portfolio of loans held for investment are unable to repay their loans. The Mortgage Banking and Capital Markets Segments are impacted by the credit risk that we retain when we sell the loans that we produce. When we sell loans, we retain credit risk in the form of subordinated mortgage-backed securities, including residual and mezzanine securities, and through the representations and warranties made to the issuing trusts for mortgage-backed securities issued by us or purchasers of loans we have sold, through the issuance of corporate guarantees and through the cash flow prioritization structure of certain securitizations. A significant portion of our portfolio of mortgage-backed securities consists of subordinated securities that absorb all or a disproportionately high percentage of the losses realized on the loans in the related mortgage pool. The buyers of our loans are expected to make more claims against our corporate guarantees and mortgage loan representations and warranties if more of our borrowers default on their loans. Higher borrower defaults can also lead to reprioritization of cash flow in certain of our securitizations that subordinate our rights to cash from the securitizations. While we estimate and provide for credit losses accruing to our portfolio of loans held for investment and mortgage-backed securities and record liabilities for our obligations, worsening economic and real estate market conditions could further negatively impact our allowance for loan losses, the fair value of the mortgage-backed securities we retain and increase our liabilities. Part of our strategy to mitigate credit exposure is to obtain mortgage insurance coverage. Although we purchase credit enhancement from those mortgage insurance providers that have an AA- rating or equivalent from the credit rating agencies, our credit losses would increase if the mortgage insurance companies were unable to fulfill their contractual obligations. 38 Disruptions in our sources of financing and continued disruption in the secondary mortgage market could continue to adversely impact our earnings and financial condition We have significant financing needs that we historically have met through the capital markets, including the debt and secondary mortgage markets. These markets are currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions, which have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the Company's earnings and financial condition. Current conditions in the debt markets, which have increased the cost and significantly reduced the availability of debt, may continue or worsen in the future. Since we are highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance our operations, a reduction in available credit or other financing sources, such as through the FHLB or from deposits to Countrywide Bank, could have an adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition, particularly in the short term. If we were restricted from obtaining additional advances from the FHLB or unable to pledge certain assets that we have historically pledged, it could adversely affect our liquidity and operations. The secondary mortgage markets are also currently experiencing unprecedented disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may continue or worsen in the future. A prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity may continue to impact our loan production volumes and could have an adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition through reduced loan margins. Dependence on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Relationships We have substantial relationships with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including loan sale and servicing arrangements that are material to our business. A significant portion of the conventional loans that we originate or purchase qualify for inclusion in guaranteed mortgage securities backed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. We also derive other material financial benefits from these relationships, including the government-sponsored enterprises ("GSEs") assumption of credit risk on loans included in such securities in exchange for payment of guarantee fees; benefits to revenues and liquidity from escrow and account funds deposited with Countrywide Bank and other financial institutions, and the avoidance of certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures. A substantial reduction in the volume of loans that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac agree to purchase or the loss of our servicing rights or the other material financial benefits we receive from these entities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. As government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by governmental agencies. Changes in the manner in which the GSEs conduct business in the marketplace or with Countrywide in particular could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or prospects. Changes in regulations or the occurrence of other events that adversely impact the business, operations or prospects of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or prospects. It we were to suffer a significant credit rating downgrade, it could have a substantial adverse impact on our operations Three credit rating agencies follow Countrywide. Moody's Investor Services has assigned us an investment grade rating of Baa3, which is the lowest investment grade rating, while Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor's have each assigned us an investment grade rating of BBB+. As of December 31, 2007, all three credit rating agencies had placed us on some form of negative outlook. These ratings reflect the credit agencies' concern that continued stresses in the mortgage markets will continue to present financial challenges for us in the near term. If we were to be downgraded by any of these 39 ratings agencies and lose our investment grade rating, such downgrade could potentially result in the acceleration of certain secured debt obligations and adversely affect our ability to conduct trading applicable to the management and hedging of our MSR assets, retained interests, inventory of loans, commitments to originate and purchase loans and our broker-dealer operations. Additionally, such downgrade would increase our financing costs and have a potential negative impact on our ability to attract and retain bank deposits. If the Bank were to lose its investment grade rating, it could adversely affect its ability to hold custodial accounts on deposits and retain commercial deposits. As of December 31, 2007, up to $4.2 billion of our custodial deposits may be subject to placement with another bank if the Bank's credit rating was reduced below investment grade. The volatility of interest rates may significantly affect our earnings The level and volatility of interest rates significantly affect the mortgage industry. For example, a decline in mortgage rates has historically increased the demand for home loans as borrowers refinance, but also has historically led to accelerated payoffs in our mortgage servicing portfolio, which has negatively impacted the value of our MSRs. We attempt to manage interest rate risk in our mortgage banking business primarily through the natural counterbalance of our loan production and servicing operations. In addition, we also use derivatives extensively to manage the interest rate, or price, risk inherent in our assets, liabilities and loan commitments. Our main objective in managing interest rate risk is to moderate the impact of changes in interest rates on our earnings over time; however, our interest rate risk management strategies may result in significant earnings volatility in the short term. The success of our interest rate risk management strategies is largely dependent on our ability to predict the earnings sensitivity of our loan servicing and loan production operations in various interest rate environments. There are many market factors that impact the performance of our interest rate risk management activities including interest rate volatility, the shape of the yield curve and the spread between mortgage interest rates and Treasury or swap rates. The success of this strategy impacts our net income. This impact, which can be either positive or negative, can be material. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive We operate in highly competitive industries that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Competition to produce mortgage loans comes primarily from large commercial banks, savings institutions and investment banks. We face competition in such areas as mortgage product offerings, rates and fees, and customer service, both at the retail and institutional level. In addition, technological advances and heightened e-commerce activities have increased consumers' accessibility to products and services generally. This has intensified competition among banking as well as nonbanking companies in offering financial products and services. Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact our earnings Reputation risk, or the risk to our business, earnings and capital from negative public opinion, is inherent in our business. Negative public opinion can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can also result from media coverage, whether accurate or not. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers, trading counterparties and employees and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Because virtually all of our businesses operate under the "Countrywide" brand, actual or alleged conduct by one business can result in negative public 40 opinion about other Countrywide businesses. Although we take steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with our customers and communities, as a large diversified financial services company with a relatively high industry profile, this risk will always be present in our organization. Our failure to comply with federal, state or local laws or regulations or any examination downgrade could adversely impact our operations, growth or profitability Our failure to comply with any federal, state and local laws or regulations, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could adversely affect our earnings. Any failure to comply with such applicable laws and regulations also could result in a range of sanctions and enforcement actions, including the imposition of civil money penalties, formal agreements, and cease and desist orders. Countrywide and its subsidiaries are subject to examination by regulators such as the OTS, which results in examination reports and supervisory ratings (which are not publicly available) that can impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. Our supervisory ratings are based on compliance with applicable laws and regulations, capital levels, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. A supervisory rating downgrade by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the agencies determine, among other things, that such operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth, and profitability of our operations. Changes in legal, regulatory and legislative environments in which we operate could adversely impact our business We are regulated by banking, mortgage lending and insurance laws at the federal, state and local levels, and proposals for further regulation of the financial services industry are continually being introduced. We also are subject to many other federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect our business, including those regarding taxation and privacy. Congress and state legislatures, as well as federal and state regulatory agencies and local governments, review such laws, regulations and policies and periodically propose changes or issue guidance that could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could, for example, limit the types and value of financial services and products we offer, alter our liability or increase our cost to offer such services and products. It is possible that one or more legislative proposals may be adopted or regulatory changes may be implemented that would have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished to us by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. For example, in deciding whether to extend credit to borrowers under certain loan programs, we assume that the information provided by a customer is accurate and complete and we do not independently verify that information. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on customer information that is not complete or accurate. 41 We are exposed to operational risks Countrywide, like all large corporations, is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees or outsiders, misinterpretation or misapplication of rules, regulations or other requirements, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunication systems. Given the high volume of transactions at Countrywide, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully corrected. Our dependence upon automated systems to record and process transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical system flaws, or employee tampering or mistakes or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. We may be subject to disruptions of our systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to losses in service to customers and to loss or liability. We are exposed to the risk that our external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligation to us (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as we are), and to the risk that our (or our vendors') business continuity and data security systems prove not to be adequate to allow us to resume operations in the event of a disruption to our (or our vendors') operations. We also face the risk that the design of our controls and procedures prove inadequate or are circumvented, thereby causing delays in detection or errors in information. Although we maintain a system of controls designed to manage operational risk at appropriate levels, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses from operational risks in the future that may be material in amount. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, and they may require management to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain We have identified several accounting policies as being "critical" to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business, they require management to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be recorded under different conditions or using different assumptions. These critical accounting policies relate to the computation of our allowance for loan losses; valuation of MSRs and retained interests; accounting for gain on sale of loans and securities, including the valuation of loans and securities pending sale; valuation of liabilities incurred in sale or securitization of loans; determination of impairment related to future funding obligation under rapid amortization; and accounting for derivatives and our related interest rate risk management activities. Because of the inherent uncertainty of the estimates associated with these critical accounting policies, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not make significant subsequent adjustments to the related amounts recorded. For more information, please refer to the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies section in this Report. Changes in U.S. GAAP could adversely affect our business Our financial reporting complies with U.S. GAAP, and U.S. GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting, our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially, including requirements to restate historical financial reporting. 42 Our business could suffer if we fail to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce. Competition for the best people in most activities we engage in can be intense. If we are unable to attract and retain such people, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. Other Factors The above description of risk factors is not exhaustive. Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated include, but are not limited to: •Unforeseen cash or capital requirements •A reduction in government support of homeownership •The ability of management to effectively implement the Company's strategies and business plans •The occurrence of natural disasters or other events or circumstances that could impact our operations or could impact the level of claims in the Insurance Segment. Other risk factors are described elsewhere herein as well as in other reports and documents that we file with or furnish to the SEC. Other factors that could also cause results to differ from our expectations may not be described in any such report or document. Each of these factors could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 