Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. Our business is influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual results and are often beyond our control. We discuss below the risks that we believe are material. You should carefully consider all of these factors. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement contained in this report, see Forward-Looking Information in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Industry competition and consolidation may increase pricing pressures and adversely impact our margins or result in a loss of customers. The book industry is extremely competitive. In the book manufacturing segment, consolidation over the past few years of both customers and competitors within the markets in which the Company competes has caused downward pricing pressures. In addition, customers switching from traditional manufacturing processes to digital printing and ebooks as well as excess capacity and competition from printing companies in lower cost countries such 4 Table of Contents as China may increase competitive pricing pressures. Furthermore, some of our competitors have greater sales, assets and financial resources than us, and those in foreign countries may derive significant advantages from local governmental regulation, including tax holidays and other subsidies. All or any of these competitive pressures could affect prices or customers’ demand for our products, impacting our profit margins and/or resulting in a loss of customers and market share. A reduction in orders or pricing from, or the loss of, any of our significant customers may adversely impact our operating results. We derived approximately 55% and 57% of our fiscal 2014 and 2013 revenues from continuing operations, respectively, from two major customers. We expect similar concentrations in fiscal 2015. We do business with these customers on a purchase order basis and they are not bound to purchase at particular volume levels. As a result, either of these customers could determine to reduce their order volume or pricing with us, especially if our pricing is not deemed competitive. A significant reduction in order volumes or pricing from, or the loss of, either of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our publishing segment is dependent on Amazon as a primary sales channel. Any change in pricing or order volume from that customer could have a material adverse effect on our results. A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. Over the past several years, we have completed several acquisitions, and may continue to make acquisitions in the future. We believe that these acquisitions provide strategic growth opportunities for us. Achieving the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The challenges involved in successfully integrating acquisitions include: · we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that economic conditions have changed, all of which may result in a future impairment charge; · we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business and may have difficulty retaining the customers and/or the key personnel of the acquired business; · we may have difficulty incorporating and integrating acquired technologies into our business; · our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing diverse locations; · we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; · an acquisition may result in litigation from shareholders or terminated employees of the acquired business or third parties; and · we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with technology and legal contingencies of the acquired business. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. From time to time, we may enter into negotiations for acquisitions that are not ultimately consummated. Such negotiations could result in significant diversion of management’s time from our business as well as significant out-of-pocket costs. Tightness in credit markets may also affect our ability to consummate such acquisitions. The consideration that we pay in connection with an acquisition could affect our financial results. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash and credit facilities to consummate such acquisitions. To the extent we issue shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock, including options or other rights, our existing stockholders may experience dilution in their share ownership in our company and their earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Accounting for business combinations may involve complex and subjective valuations of the assets and liabilities recorded as a result of the business combination or other agreement, and in some instances contingent consideration, which is recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements 5 Table of Contents pursuant to the standards applicable for business combinations in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Differences between the inputs and assumptions used in the valuations and actual results could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operation. Any of these factors may materially and adversely affect our business and operations. We could face significant liability as a result of our participation in multi-employer pension plans. We participate in two multi-employer defined benefit pension plans for certain union employees. Multi-employer pension plans cover employees of and receive contributions from two or more unrelated employers under one or more union contracts. Our risks of participating in these types of plans include the fact that (i) plan contributions by each employer, including us, may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers, (ii) if another participating employer withdraws from either plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers, including us, and (iii) if we withdraw from participating in either plan, we may be required to pay the plan an amount based on our allocable share of the underfunded status of the plan. We make periodic contributions to the two multi-employer plans pursuant to our union contracts, each of which was renewed in fiscal year 2013, to allow the plans to meet the pension benefit obligations to plan participants. We currently expect that we will be required to contribute approximately $357,000 to these two plans in fiscal 2015, but these contributions could significantly increase due to other employers’ withdrawals or changes in the funded status of the plans. Further, if we continue to participate in such pension plans, our contributions may increase depending on the outcome of future union negotiations and applicable law, changes in the funding status of the plans, and any reduction in participation or withdrawal by other employers from the plans. Our continued participation in these plans could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. In the event that we withdraw from participation in one or both of these plans, we could be required to make a withdrawal liability payment or series of payments to the plan, which would be reflected as an expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income and a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Our withdrawal liability for any multiemployer plan would depend on the funded status of the plan and the level of our prior plan contributions. Both plans are estimated to be underfunded as of September 27, 2014 and have a Pension Protection Act zone status of critical (“red”); such status identifies plans that are less than 65% funded. In addition, our contributions to the Bindery Industry Employers GCC/IBT Pension Plan represented approximately 70% of total contributions in each of the last three years. This plan currently includes only two other contributing employers. A withdrawal by one or both of these employers could materially increase the amount of our required contributions to this plan. Under our contract with the bindery union, if certain events occur we have the right to withdraw from the pension plan without the union’s consent. A future withdrawal by us from either of the two multi-employer pension plans could result in a withdrawal liability for us, the amount of which could be material to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our investment in Brazil increases our exposure to the risks of operating internationally. Substantially all of our operations are conducted within the United States. Investing in Brazil or elsewhere outside the United States will expose us to a number of risks, including: · compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including licensing, tax, trade, intellectual property, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time; · additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws; · potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, obtaining accurate and timely financial information, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; · tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; · potential adverse tax consequences, including tax withholding laws and policies and restrictions on repatriation of funds to the United States; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; 6 Table of Contents · impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the United States, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; · the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and · developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our investment in Brazil and our business, results of operation or financial condition. From time to time, we may make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control, including our investment in Digital Page in Brazil. From time to time, we may make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. For example, we own only 60% of the Digital Page equity interests (acquired in November 2014). Investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. From time to time, we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. Investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we invest, time consuming decision making and information sharing procedures or becoming involved in disputes. The benefits from such joint ventures are shared among the co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures. In addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. Because a significant portion of publishing sales are made to or through retailers and distributors, the insolvency of any of these parties could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. In our publishing segment, sales to retailers and distributors are highly concentrated on a small group, which previously included Borders Group, Inc. (“Borders”). Any bankruptcy, liquidation, insolvency or other failure of a major retailer or distributor could also have a material impact on the Company. For example, during fiscal 2014, we recorded a net bad debt expense of $825,000 related to the closing and liquidation of a primary distributor for our Creative Homeowner business. Creative Homeowner was sold in September 2014 and is included in discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. Electronic delivery of content may adversely affect our business. Electronic delivery of content offers an alternative to the traditional delivery through print. Widespread consumer acceptance of electronic delivery of books is uncertain, as is the extent to which consumers are willing to replace print materials with online hosted media content. If our customers’ acceptance of electronic delivery of books and online hosted media content continues to grow, demand for and/or pricing of our printed products may be adversely affected. Non-profit organizations have worked to encourage development of educational content that can be “open sourced” for educational purposes. If these initiatives increase the availability and utilization of free or inexpensive materials online, it may adversely impact sales, reduce demand or change customer expectations regarding pricing and delivery. A failure to successfully adapt to changing book sales channels may have an adverse impact on our business. Over the last several years, the “bricks & mortar” bookstore channel has experienced a significant contraction, including the bankruptcy of Borders Group, Inc. and Nebraska Book Co., the closure of many independent bookstores, and the reduction in inventory and shelf space for books in other national chains. In addition to expanding our online and direct to consumer sales, we have responded by offering over 5,000 of our titles as ebooks, as well as seeking alternative channels for our products, such as mass merchandising chains. However, there is no 7 Table of Contents guarantee that we will be able to address the challenges in these channels, including creating price competitive products that will successfully penetrate these markets and accurately predicting the volume of returns. Declines in general economic conditions may adversely impact our business. Economic conditions have the potential to impact our financial results significantly. Within the book manufacturing and publishing segments, we may be adversely affected by changes in economic conditions, including as a result of changes in government, business and consumer spending. Examples of how our financial results may be impacted include: · Fluctuations in federal or state government spending on education, including a reduction in tax revenues, could lead to a corresponding decrease in the demand for educational materials, which are produced in our book manufacturing segment and comprise a portion of our publishing products. · Consumer demand for books can be impacted by reductions in disposable income. · Tightness in credit markets may result in customers delaying orders to reduce inventory levels and may impact their ability to pay their debts as they become due and may disrupt supplies from vendors, and may result in customers becoming insolvent. · Reduced fundraising by religious customers may decrease their order levels. · A slowdown in book purchases may result in retailers returning an unusually large number of books to publishers to reduce their inventories. A failure to keep pace with rapid industrial and technological change may have an adverse impact on our business. The printing industry is in a period of rapid technological evolution. Our future financial performance will depend, in part, upon the ability to anticipate and adapt to rapid industrial and technological changes occurring in the industry and upon the ability to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet evolving industry standards. If we are unable to adapt to such technological changes, we may lose customers and may not be able to maintain our competitive position. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in the implementation and start-up of new equipment and technology. We are unable to predict which of the many possible future product and service offerings will be important to establish and maintain a competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these products and services. We cannot assure investors that one or more of these factors will not vary unpredictably, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot assure investors, even if these factors turn out as we anticipate that we will be able to implement our strategy or that the strategy will be successful in this rapidly evolving market. Our operating results are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our stock price. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Factors that may affect our future operating results include: · the timing and size of the orders for our books; · the availability of markets for sales or distribution by our major customers; · the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycles associated with sales of textbooks to the elementary and high school market; · the migration of educators and students towards electronic delivery of content; · our customers’ willingness and success in shifting orders from the peak textbook season to the off-peak season to even out our manufacturing load over the year; · fluctuations in the currency market may make manufacturing in the United States more or less attractive and make equipment more or less expensive for us to purchase; · issues that might arise from the integration of acquired businesses, including their inability to achieve expected results; and 8 Table of Contents · tightness in credit markets affecting the availability of capital for ourselves, our vendors, and/or our customers. As a result of these and other factors, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful or indicative of future performance. In addition, the factors noted above may make it difficult for us to forecast and provide in a timely manner public guidance (including updates to prior guidance) related to our projected financial performance. Furthermore, it is possible that in future quarters our operating results could fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets. We perform an annual assessment for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, at the end of our fiscal year or whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, including a downturn in the market value of the Company’s stock. A downward revision in the fair value of one of our acquired businesses could result in impairments of goodwill and non-cash charges. Any impairment charge could have a significant negative effect on our reported results of operations. For example, the Company concluded it was necessary to record impairment charges of $4.8 million for FastPencil’s goodwill in fiscal 2014 as well as an impairment charge of $1.2 million for FastPencil’s other intangible assets. The impact of these impairment charges was offset in part by the reduction of $4.1 million in the related contingent consideration liability during fiscal 2014. Fluctuations in the cost and availability of paper and other raw materials may cause disruption and impact margins. Purchases of paper and other raw materials represent a large portion of our costs. In our book manufacturing segment, paper is normally supplied by our customers at their expense or price increases are passed through to our customers. In our publishing segment, cost increases have generally been passed on to customers through higher prices or we have substituted a less expensive grade of paper. However, if we are unable to continue to pass on these increases or substitute a less expensive grade of paper, our margins and profits could be adversely affected. Availability of paper is important to both our book manufacturing and publishing segments. Although we generally have not experienced difficulty in obtaining adequate supplies of paper, recent reductions in capacity may impact paper production and unexpected changes in the paper markets could result in a shortage of supply. If this were to occur in the future, it could cause disruption to the business or increase paper costs, adversely impacting either or both net sales or profits. Fluctuations in the costs and availability of paper and other raw materials could adversely affect operating costs or customer demand and thereby negatively impact our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, fluctuations in the markets for paper and other raw materials may adversely affect the market for our waste byproducts, including recycled paper, and used plates, and therefore adversely affect our income from such sales. Energy costs and availability may negatively impact our financial results. Energy costs are incurred directly to run production equipment and facilities and indirectly through expenses such as freight and raw materials such as ink. In a competitive market environment, increases to these direct and indirect energy related costs might not be able to be passed through to customers through price increases or mitigated through other means. In such instances, increased energy costs could adversely impact operating costs or customer demand. In addition, interruption in the availability of energy could disrupt operations, adversely impacting operating results. 9 Table of Contents Inadequate intellectual property protection for our publications could negatively impact our financial results. Certain of our publications are protected by copyright, primarily held in the Company’s name. Such copyrights protect our exclusive right to publish the work in the United States and in many other countries for specified periods. Our ability to continue to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. Our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. In addition, some of our publications are of works in the public domain, for which there is nearly no intellectual property protection. Our operating results may be adversely affected by the increased availability of such works elsewhere, including on the Internet, either for free or for a lower price. A failure to maintain or improve our operating efficiencies could adversely impact our profitability. Because the markets in which we operate are highly competitive, we must continue to improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve our profitability. Although we have been able to expand our capacity, improve our productivity and reduce costs in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. In addition, reducing operating costs in the future may require significant initial costs to reduce headcount, close or consolidate operations, or upgrade equipment and technology. Our facilities are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations, which may subject us to liability or increase our costs. We use various materials in our operations that contain substances considered hazardous or toxic under environmental laws. In addition, our operations are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws relating to, among other things, air emissions, waste generation, handling, management and disposal, waste water treatment and discharge and remediation of soil and groundwater contamination. Permits are required for the operation of certain of our businesses and these permits are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. Under certain environmental laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended (“CERCLA,” commonly referred to as “Superfund”), and similar state laws and regulations, we may be liable for costs and damages relating to soil and groundwater contamination at off-site disposal locations or at our facilities. Future changes to environmental laws and regulations may give rise to additional costs or liabilities that could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. A failure to hire and train key executives and other qualified employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to continue to retain our executive officers and key management personnel. Our business strategy also depends on our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain employees who have relevant experience in the printing and publishing industries. There can be no assurance that we can continue to attract and retain the necessary talented employees, including executive officers and other key members of management and, if we fail to do so, it could adversely affect our business. A lack of skilled employees to manufacture our products may adversely affect our business. If we experience problems hiring and retaining skilled employees, our business may be negatively affected. The timely manufacture and delivery of our products requires an adequate supply of skilled employees, and the operating costs of our manufacturing facilities can be adversely affected by high turnover in skilled positions. Accordingly, our ability to increase sales, productivity and net earnings could be impacted by our ability to employ the skilled employees necessary to meet our requirements. Although our book manufacturing locations are geographically dispersed, individual locations may encounter strong competition with other manufacturers for skilled employees. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to efficiently operate our facilities. In addition, unions represent certain groups of employees at one of our locations, and periodically, contracts with those unions come up for renewal. The outcome of those negotiations could have an adverse effect on our operations at that location. Also, changes in federal and/or state laws may facilitate the organization of unions at locations that do not currently have unions, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. We are subject to various laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our business, including those promulgated under the Consumer Product Safety Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission as well as laws and regulations relating to personal information. We may be required to make significant 10 Table of Contents expenditures to comply with such governmental laws and regulations and any amendments thereto. Complying with existing or future laws or regulations may materially limit our business and increase our costs. Failure to comply with such laws may expose us to potential liability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 