Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider each of the risks described in this report, and the other information in this report. While these are the risks and uncertainties Cox believes are most important for you to consider, you should know that they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing Cox or which may adversely affect Cox’s business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, Cox’s business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. Cox has significant debt. Cox has a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2005, Cox had total long-term obligations of approximately $13.0 billion. Cox’s credit ratings are currently lower than its historical credit ratings due to its incurrence of debt to finance the going-private transaction in December 2004. Cash generated from operating activities and borrowing has been sufficient to fund Cox’s debt service, working capital obligations and capital expenditure requirements. Cox believes that it will continue to generate cash and obtain financing sufficient to meet these requirements. However, if Cox were unable to meet these requirements, Cox would have to consider refinancing its indebtedness or obtaining new financing. Although in the past Cox has been able to refinance its indebtedness and obtain new financing, there can be no assurance that Cox will be able to do so in the future or that, if Cox were able to do so, the terms available would be acceptable to Cox. In addition, Cox must manage exposure to interest rate risk due to 26 Table of Contents variable rate debt instruments. Cox faces a wide range of competition in areas served by Cox’s cable systems, which could adversely affect Cox’s future results of operations. Cox’s cable systems compete with a number of different sources which provide news, information and entertainment programming to consumers. Cox competes directly with program distributors, telephone companies and other companies that use satellites, operate competing cable systems in the same communities Cox serves or otherwise offer programming and other communications services to Cox’s subscribers and potential subscribers. Some local telephone companies provide, or have announced plans to provide, video services within and outside their telephone service areas. Additionally, Cox is subject to competition from telecommunications providers and Internet service providers, in connection with offerings of new and advanced services, including high-speed Internet services and VOIP service. This competition may materially adversely affect Cox’s business and operations in the future. Numerous companies, including telephone companies, have introduced DSL, which provides Internet access to subscribers at data transmission speeds substantially greater than that of conventional analog modems. Cox expects other advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, to occur in the future. Other new technologies and services may develop and may compete with services that cable systems offer. In recent years, Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies intended to provide a favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to Cox’s cable systems. Similarly, some states in which Cox operates cable television systems, such as Texas and Virginia, have enacted, and other states like California are considering, state-wide franchising that will allow telephone companies and other competitors to construct and operate cable systems with fewer regulatory and contractual requirements and without negotiating individual franchises with each community as Cox has been required to do. These ongoing and future technological, legislative and regulatory developments could have a negative impact on Cox’s business operations. Programming costs are increasing and Cox may not have the ability to pass these increases on to Cox’s subscribers, which would materially adversely affect Cox’s cash flow and operating margins. Programming costs are a significant expense item and will continue to be significant in the foreseeable future. In recent years, the cable and satellite video industries have experienced a rapid increase in the cost of programming, particularly sports programming. Increases are expected to continue, and Cox may not be able to pass a portion of these programming cost increases on to Cox’s subscribers. The inability to pass a portion of these programming cost increases on to Cox’s subscribers would have a material adverse impact on Cox’s operating results. In addition, as Cox upgrades the channel capacity of Cox’s systems and adds programming to Cox’s basic, expanded basic and digital programming tiers, Cox may face increased programming costs, which, in conjunction with the additional market constraints on Cox’s ability to pass programming costs on to Cox’s subscribers, may reduce operating margins. Cox also expects to be subject to increasing demands by broadcasters to obtain their consent, where required, for the retransmission of broadcast programming to Cox’s subscribers. Cox cannot predict the impact of these negotiations or the effect on Cox’s business and operations should Cox fail to obtain any required broadcasters’ retransmission consents. 27 Table of Contents Cox is subject to regulation by federal, state and local governments which may impose costs and restrictions. Cox’s cable television operations are regulated extensively by federal and local governments and by some state governments. Cox expects that legislative enactments, court actions and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some cases change the rights and obligations of cable companies and the cable industry’s current and future competitors under the Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that Cox has not foreseen. Congress considers new legislative requirements potentially affecting our businesses virtually every year, and a significant initiative to update the Communications Act began in 2005 and is expected to continue in 2006. Additionally, some states have adopted, and other states, the U.S. Congress and the FCC are actively considering, changes in franchising requirements that will allow competitors to construct and operate cable systems and to compete with incumbent cable operators like Cox more effectively and with fewer regulatory requirements. The results of these legislative, judicial and administrative actions may materially adversely affect Cox’s business operations. Local authorities grant Cox franchises that permit Cox to operate its cable systems. Cox will have to renew or renegotiate these franchises from time to time. Local franchising authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal or transfer, which concessions or other commitments could be costly to Cox in the future. Cox is subject to additional regulatory burdens in connection with the provision of phone services, which could cause Cox to incur additional costs. Cox is subject to risks associated with the regulation of Cox’s circuit-switched phone services by the FCC and state public utility commissions. Telecommunications companies generally are subject to significant common-carrier regulation. This regulation could materially adversely affect Cox’s business operations. Cox has launched VOIP phone service in certain markets. The FCC has initiated a rulemaking to consider whether and how to regulate VOIP services. VOIP services may also be subject to potential regulation at the state level, and several states have attempted to impose traditional common-carrier regulation on such services. It is unclear how these VOIP-related proceedings at the federal and state levels, and related judicial proceedings that will ensue, might affect Cox’s planned VOIP service. Cox may face new regulatory requirements because of technological advances, which could adversely affect Cox’s future results of operations. Ever since high-speed cable Internet service was introduced, some local governments and various competitors have sought to impose regulatory requirements on how Cox deals with Internet service providers. Thus far, only a few local governments have imposed such requirements, and the courts have invalidated all of them. The FCC has refused to treat Cox’s high speed Internet service as a common carrier “telecommunications service,” and instead has classified it as an “interstate information service,” which has historically resulted in significantly reduced regulatory obligations. However, the FCC is still considering whether it should impose any regulatory requirements on high speed broadband services and also whether local franchising authorities should be permitted to impose fees or other requirements, such as service quality or customer service standards on such services. Some franchising authorities may attempt to impose such requirements and make them a condition of Cox’s franchises. Also, some franchising authorities have requested payment of franchise fees on high-speed broadband service revenues. Cox cannot now predict whether these or similar regulations will be adopted; however, such requirements, if adopted, could adversely affect the results of Cox’s operations. Cox is controlled by a principal stockholder whose interests may be different than your interest. Cox Enterprises owns 100% of the outstanding equity and holds 100% of the voting power of Cox. Cox Enterprises therefore controls all actions to be taken by Cox stockholders, and CEI’s interests as a stockholder may differ from those of Cox’s debt security holders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 28 Table of Contents None. 