Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2007, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. We are materially dependent upon Sears and Wal-Mart. Substantially all of our sales are derived from sales in Sears or Wal-Mart stores. Therefore, we are materially dependent upon our relationship with both Sears and Wal-Mart, the continued goodwill of Sears and Wal-Mart and the integrity of their brand names in the retail marketplace. Any deterioration in our host relationships could have a material adverse effect on us. Because we represent only a small fraction of Sears and Wal-Mart revenues, any deterioration of either host relationship would have a far greater effect on us than on the host. In addition, our competitive posture could be weakened with negative changes in Sears’ or Wal-Mart’s competitive posture. 10 Our business practices and operations need to be acceptable to our hosts. Because of the importance of our Sears and Wal-Mart relationships, our business practices and procedures must at all times be acceptable to the host. In addition, under our agreements there are substantial contractual rights, which the host can exercise in a manner that can have a material adverse effect on us. Consequently, in the future, we may make changes to our business practices and procedures, including with regards to advertising and promotions, product offerings, studio facilities and technology in response to host requests that would not be in our best interests and could materially and adversely affect our sales, costs, margins, business development or other aspects of our business. Our hosts may terminate, breach, otherwise limit or increase our expenses under our license agreements. Our Sears and Wal-Mart studios in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are operated pursuant to license and lease agreements, respectively. As of February 2, 2008, our license agreements have the following expiration dates: for our U.S. and Puerto Rico Sears studios, December 2008; for our U.S. and Puerto Rico Wal-Mart studios, June 2010; for our Canadian Wal-Mart Studios, 94 in 2008, 112 in 2009, 20 in 2010, 15 in 2011, 10 in 2012 and 2 in 2013; and for our Mexican Wal-Mart studios, with 30-day notice after one year of operation. For our Canadian Sears studios, the agreement has expired and we are currently operating our studios under the terms of such agreement as discussions continue with Sears Canada to arrive at a mutually satisfactory extension or new agreement. The U.S. Sears agreement is currently in negotiation and the termination of this agreement or the inclusion of unfavorable terms could have a material adverse impact on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reach an acceptable agreement. These agreements are more fully described in “Item 1. The Company’s Host Relationships.” Sears and Wal-Mart are under no obligation to renew these agreements. They may also seek to increase the fees we pay under our agreements upon renewal of the agreements. In addition, license fees under our Sears Canadian agreement increase periodically if certain sales or other conditions are met. We do not have the contractual right to close any poorly performing locations without Sears or Wal-Mart’s consent. In addition, our license agreements do not prohibit Sears and Wal-Mart from selling many of the tangible goods we sell, or from processing film or digital photos, in other departments within its stores. Furthermore, there is always the risk that Sears or Wal-Mart might breach our agreements. The loss or breach of the agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse change in any other aspects of our business relationship with Sears or Wal-Mart, including the reduction of the number of studios operated pursuant to such arrangements or a decision by Sears or Wal-Mart to license studios to other persons could have a material adverse effect on us. The Company may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of the PictureMe Portrait Studio brand. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of the PictureMe Portrait Studio brand depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of events, including integrating the PictureMe Portrait Studio business into the Company. Factors that could affect the Company’s ability to achieve these benefits include: · Difficulties in integrating and managing personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by the PictureMe Portrait Studio business into the Company; · The failure of the PictureMe Portrait Studio business to perform in accordance with the Company’s expectations; · Any future goodwill impairment charges that the Company may incur with respect to the assets of PictureMe Portrait Studio; · Failure to achieve anticipated synergies between the Company’s business units and the business units of PictureMe Portrait Studio; and · The inability to maintain Wal-Mart as a host. If the PictureMe Portrait Studio business does not operate as anticipated, it could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration of PictureMe Portrait Studio will place significant demands on administrative, operational and financial resources, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully integrate the PictureMe Portrait Studio business. Failure to successfully integrate PictureMe Portrait Studio with CPI, and to successfully manage the challenges presented by the integration process, may prevent the Company from achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and could have a material adverse effect on the business. 11 We have a high level of indebtedness which may impair our ability to operate effectively and impair future performances. After the completion of the PCA Acquisition, CPI has significantly higher amounts of debt which require significant interest and principal payments. The level of debt and the limitations imposed by these debt agreements could adversely affect operating flexibility and put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. The Company’s debt level may adversely affect future performance. The ability to make scheduled payments of principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance indebtedness and to satisfy other debt and lease obligations will depend upon future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond the Company’s control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to the Company on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of indebtedness. If the Company is unable to service indebtedness, the business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. An economic downturn, a reduction in consumer spending or decreased customer traffic in our host stores could materially adversely affect our business. Portrait photography services may be affected by negative trends in the general economy. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general may affect companies in this specialty retail service industry. In addition, our portrait studios are somewhat dependent on customer traffic generated by the host stores. The host stores, as part of the retail industry, may be affected by a downturn in the economy and a decrease in discretionary income of potential customers. A reduction in host store traffic could adversely affect us. If our key suppliers become unable to continue to provide us supplies under our current contracts, we will need to obtain an alternative source of supplies. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As described in “Item 1. Suppliers,” the Company purchases photographic paper, dye sublimation paper and chemistry from several suppliers. Additionally, the Company utilizes the software of a single vendor for our studio photography and manufacturing fulfillment for digital systems. If these companies become unable to continue to provide us supplies or services under our current arrangements or if prices are increased dramatically, we will need to obtain alternative sources of supplies or services. Although management believes that the available alternative sources of supplies are adequate, there can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such supplies at the same or similar terms to those we currently have in place. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Should the Company be forced to replace its digital software vendor, related costs could increase and production could be disrupted for a period of time, which could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. Our inability to remain competitive could have a detrimental impact on our results of operations. The professional portrait photography industry is highly competitive. Evolving technology and business relationships may make it easier and cheaper for our competitors and potential competitors to develop products or services similar to ours or to sell competing products or services in our markets. The companies in our industry compete on the basis of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of retail distribution channel. If the Company cannot continue to provide perceived value for our customers, this could have a material adverse impact on sales and profitability. To compete successfully, we must continue to remain competitive in areas of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of distribution. Likewise, the proliferation of amateur digital photography is making customers more discerning and demanding and has adversely affected overall portrait activity/frequency. If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends upon, to a large extent, the efforts and abilities of our key employees, particularly our executive management team. We cannot assure you of the continued employment of any members of management. Competition for qualified management personnel is intense. The loss of the services of our key employees or the failure to retain qualified employees when needed could materially adversely affect us. 12 Our fourth quarter sales and income are disproportionately high and we are vulnerable to downturns in consumer holiday spending that can adversely affect our business. Our business is highly seasonal, with the largest volume occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, between Thanksgiving and Christmas. The fourth quarters in fiscal 2007 and 2006 accounted for approximately 38% and 34% of our annual sales, respectively. As a result, fourth quarter operating results significantly impact annual operating results. Our fourth quarter operating results may fluctuate significantly based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns, prevailing economic conditions and weather conditions. A significant increase in piracy of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our photographs. However, our ability to prevent piracy and enforce our proprietary rights in our photographs is limited. We are aware that unauthorized copying of photographs occurs within our industry. A significant increase in the frequency of unauthorized copying of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues from photograph sales. Any disruption in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are dependent upon the efficient operation of our portrait processing facilities to maintain our portrait quality, timeliness of delivery and low cost operation. Our digital platform utilizes the software of a single vendor for our studio photography and manufacturing fulfillment digital systems. Any material delay in the vendor’s networking environment, coupled with a failure to identify and implement alternative solutions, could have an adverse effect upon the operations of the business. Additionally, should this vendor no longer operate, the Company may be forced to find another source of this support, which could be more costly and could delay digital production for a period of time. Although on-site printing is an available alternative to central printing in the Sears’ digital environment, it currently would be difficult and costly for on-site printing to replace central fulfillment during the holiday busy season. Our PictureMe Portrait Studio brand is still primarily on an analog film system which operates from customized equipment that is not readily available in the marketplace. Although we plan to convert PictureMe Portrait Studio to digital in 2008, any lengthy disruption in our film processing system before the successful conversion of the majority of the PictureMe Portrait Studio business to the digital environment would have an adverse impact on the business. Any disruption of our processing systems for any reason could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. Our credit agreement contains covenants and requires financial ratios and tests, which impose restrictions on our business. These covenants, ratios and tests are summarized in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions, as well as any failure to make a payment of interest or principal when due, could result in a default under the credit agreement. Such a default would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the ability to borrow under this agreement could be terminated. If we are unable to repay debt to our lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Item 