Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2006, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. We are materially dependent upon Sears. Substantially all of our sales for fiscal 2005 were derived from sales in Sears stores. Therefore, we are materially dependent upon our relationship with Sears, the continued goodwill of Sears and the integrity of the Sears brand name in the retail marketplace. Any deterioration in our Sears relationship could have a material adverse effect on us. Because we represent only a small fraction of Sears’ revenues, any deterioration of our relationship with Sears would have a far greater effect on us than on Sears. In addition, our competitive posture could be weakened with negative changes in Sears’ competitive posture. Our business practices and operations need to be acceptable to Sears. Because of the importance of our Sears relationship to us, our business practices and procedures must at all times be acceptable to Sears. In addition, under our license agreements Sears has substantial contractual rights, which it can exercise in a manner that can have a material adverse effect on us. Consequently, in the future, we may make changes to our business practices and procedures, including with regards to advertising and promotions, pricing, product offerings, studio facilities, technology, management and employment practices in response to Sears’ requests that would not be in our best interests and could materially and adversely affect our sales, costs, margins, business development or other aspects of our business. Sears or Sears Canada may terminate, breach, otherwise limit or increase our expenses under our license agreements. Our Sears permanent studios in the U.S. and Canada are operated pursuant to license agreements. As of February 4, 2006, our license agreements with Sears and Sears Canada have the following expiration dates: for our U.S. and Puerto Rico Sears studios, December 2008; and for our Canadian Sears studios, June 2006. These agreements are more fully described in “Item 1. The Company’s Relationship with Sears.” Sears is under no obligation to renew these licenses. Sears may also increase the license fees we pay under our license agreements upon renewal of the agreements. In addition, license fees under our Canadian agreement increase periodically if certain sales or other conditions are met. We do not have the contractual right to close any poorly performing locations without Sears’ consent. In addition, our license agreements do not prohibit Sears from selling many of the tangible goods we sell, or from processing film or digital photos, in other departments within its stores. Furthermore, there is always the risk that Sears might breach one or both of our license agreements. The loss or breach of the licenses from Sears could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse change in any other aspects of our business relationship with Sears, including the reduction of the number of studios operated pursuant to such arrangements or a decision by Sears to license studios to other persons could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 1. The Company’s Relationship with Sears.” An economic downturn, a reduction in consumer spending or decreased customer traffic in our host stores could materially adversely affect our business. Portrait photography services may be affected by negative trends in the general economy. Any reduction in consumer confidence or disposable income in general may affect companies in this specialty retail service industry. In addition, our portrait studios in Sears stores are somewhat dependent on customer traffic generated by the host stores. The host stores, as part of the retail industry, may be affected by a downturn in the economy and a decrease in discretionary income of potential customers. A reduction in host store traffic could adversely affect us. 9 If our key suppliers become unable to continue to provide us supplies under our current contract, we will need to obtain an alternative source of supplies. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As described in “Item 1. Suppliers,” the Company has an agreement with Eastman Kodak for photographic paper. It also purchases dye sublimation paper used for on-site printing primarily from Sony and processing chemistry from Fuji-Hunt. Additionally, the Company utilizes the software of a single vendor for our studio photography and manufacturing fulfillment for digital systems. If these companies become unable to continue to provide us supplies or services under our current arrangements or if prices are increased dramatically, we will need to obtain alternative sources of supplies or services. Although management believes that the available alternative sources of supplies are adequate, there can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such supplies at the same or similar terms to those we currently have in place. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Should the Company be forced to replace its digital software vendor, related costs could increase and production could be disrupted for a period of time, which could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. Our inability to remain competitive could have a detrimental impact on our results of operations. The professional portrait photography industry is highly competitive. Certain of our competitors and potential competitors benefit from strong name recognition and have a strategy focused principally on lower prices. Moreover, evolving technology and business relationships may make it easier and cheaper for our competitors and potential competitors to develop products or services similar to ours or to sell competing products or services in our markets. The companies in our industry compete on the basis of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of retail distribution channel. With conversion to digital technology, we have implemented various offer changes and targeted price increases. These changes have contributed to a reduced level of customer sittings, which has been more than offset by increased order averages. If the Company cannot continue to provide perceived value for our customers, this could have a material adverse impact on sales and profitability. To compete successfully, we must continue to remain competitive in areas of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of distribution. If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends upon, to a large extent, the efforts and abilities of our key employees, particularly our executive management team. We cannot assure you of the continued employment of any members of management. Competition for qualified management personnel is intense. The loss of the services of our key employees or the failure to retain qualified employees when needed could materially adversely affect us. Our fourth quarter sales and income are disproportionately high and we are vulnerable to downturns in consumer holiday spending that can adversely affect our business. Our business is highly seasonal, with the largest volume occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, between Thanksgiving and Christmas. The fourth quarters in fiscal 2005 and 2004 have accounted for approximately 35% of our annual sales. As a result, fourth quarter operating results significantly impact annual operating results. Our fourth quarter operating results may fluctuate significantly based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns and weather conditions. 10 A significant increase in piracy of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our portrait photographs. However, our ability to prevent piracy and enforce our proprietary rights in our photographs is limited. We are aware that unauthorized copying of photographs occurs within our industry. A significant increase in the frequency of unauthorized copying of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues from photograph sales. Any disruption in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are dependent upon the efficient operation of our portrait processing facilities to maintain our portrait quality, timeliness of delivery and low cost operation. Our U.S. full digital platform utilizes the software of a single vendor for our studio photography and manufacturing fulfillment digital systems. Any material delay in the vendor’s networking environment, coupled with a failure to identify and implement alternative solutions, could have an adverse effect upon the operations of the business. Additionally, should this vendor no longer operate, the Company may be forced to find another source of this support, which could be more costly and could delay production for a period of time. Although on-site printing is an available alternative to central printing, it currently would be difficult and costly for on-site printing to replace central fulfillment during the holiday busy season. Any disruption of our processing systems for any reason could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Widespread equipment failure in our portrait studios could materially adversely impact the financial condition or results of operations. The Company has recently installed new digital equipment in all U.S. studios which has operated effectively throughout the 2005 holiday season and is beginning to install such equipment in Canadian studios. Should there be a widespread defect in such equipment that prevents the use of such equipment, production could be delayed for a period of time. This could materially adversely impact the financial conditions and results of operations of the Company. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. Our credit agreement contains covenants and requires financial ratios and tests, which impose restrictions on our business. These covenants, ratios and tests are summarized in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions, as well as any failure to make a payment of interest or principal when due, could result in a default under the credit agreement. Such a default would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the ability to borrow under this agreement could be terminated. If we are unable to repay debt to our lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 11 Item 