Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2011, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us and do not include other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial that may also affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are materially dependent upon Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us. Substantially all of our sales are derived from sales in Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us stores. Therefore, we are materially dependent upon our relationship with Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us, the continued goodwill of Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us and the integrity of their brand names in the retail marketplace. Any deterioration in our host relationships could have a material adverse effect on us. 8 Because we represent only a small fraction of Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us revenues, any deterioration of any host relationship would have a far greater effect on us than on our hosts. In addition, our competitive posture could be weakened by negative changes in Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us. Our portrait studios in Walmart and Toys “R” Us are substantially dependent on customer traffic generated by our host retail stores, and if the customer traffic through these host stores decreases due to the economy or for any other reason, our sales could be materially and adversely affected. Our business practices and operations need to be acceptable to our hosts. Our business practices and procedures must at all times be acceptable to Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us. In addition, under our agreements there are substantial contractual rights, the most significant of which are described more fully in “Item 1. Business,” which the host can exercise in a manner that can have a material adverse effect on us. Consequently, in the future, we may be required to make changes to our business practices and procedures, including with regard to advertising and promotions, product offerings, studio facilities and technology in response to host requests that would not be in our best interests and could materially and adversely affect our sales, costs, margins, business development or other aspects of our business. Our hosts may terminate, breach, otherwise limit or increase our expenses under our agreements. Our Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us studios in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are operated pursuant to certain license and lease agreements. Our agreements have the following expiration dates: for our U.S. and Puerto Rico Walmart studios, January 2016; for our Canada Walmart Studios, 121 in 2011, 111 in 2012, 20 in 2013, 4 in 2014 and 2 in 2015; for our Mexico Walmart studios, with 30-day notice after one year of operation; for our U.S. Sears studios, December 2014; for our Canada Sears studios, August 2015; for our Puerto Rico Sears studios, December 2014; and for our U.S. Toys “R” Us studios, January 2016. These agreements are more fully described in “Item 1. The Company’s Host Relationships.” Walmart and Sears are under no obligation to renew these agreements. The agreement with Toys “R” Us provides the Company and Toys “R” Us terms to renew the agreement under certain conditions. Our hosts may also seek to increase the fees we pay under our agreements upon renewal of the agreements. We do not have the contractual right to close any poorly performing locations without Walmart’s or Sears’ consent. Under our agreement with Toys “R” Us, the Company and Toys “R” Us may close certain underperforming locations under specified conditions. In addition, our agreements do not prohibit Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us from selling many of the tangible goods we sell, or from processing digital photos in other departments within their stores. Furthermore, there is always the risk that Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us might breach our agreements. The loss or breach of the agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse change in any other aspects of our business relationship with Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us, including the reduction of the number of studios operated pursuant to such arrangements or a decision by Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us to license or lease studios to other persons, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from the Bella Pictures® Acquisition. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Bella Pictures® Acquisition depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of events, including integrating the Bella Pictures® business into the Company. Factors that could affect the Company’s ability to achieve these benefits include: o Difficulty in integrating and managing personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by the Bella Pictures® business into the Company; o The failure of the Bella Pictures® business to perform in accordance with the Company’s expectations; and o Failure to achieve anticipated synergies between the Company’s business and the Bella Pictures® business. If the Bella Pictures® business does not operate as anticipated, it could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration of Bella Pictures® will place significant demands on administrative, operational and financial resources, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully integrate the Bella Pictures® business. Failure to successfully integrate the Bella Pictures® business with CPI, and to successfully manage the challenges presented by the integration process, may prevent the Company from achieving anticipated benefits of the acquisition and could have a material adverse effect on the business. 9 The economic recession has materially impacted consumer spending and may adversely affect our financial position. Consumer discretionary spending has been materially and adversely impacted by the current recession, job losses, volatile energy and food costs, greater levels of unemployment, higher levels of consumer debt, declines in home values and in the value of consumers' investments and savings, restrictions on the availability of credit and other negative economic conditions which have affected consumer confidence and disposable income. If consumer discretionary spending further declines, demand for our products could decrease and we may be forced to discount our merchandise, which in turn could reduce our revenues, gross margins, operating cash flows and earnings. In addition, higher transportation costs, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and other negative economic factors may increase our cost of sales and operating expenses. Additionally, our business is highly seasonal, with the largest volume occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, between Thanksgiving and Christmas. The fourth quarters in fiscal 2010 and 2009 accounted for approximately 32% and 33% of total net sales for the respective years. As a result, any adverse impact on our fourth quarter operating results would significantly impact annual operating results. Our fourth quarter operating results may fluctuate significantly based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns, prevailing economic conditions and weather conditions. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. On August 30, 2010, the Company entered into the Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) which makes available to the Company a revolving credit facility, which includes letters of credit, and replaces the Company’s former facility. The Credit Agreement provides the Company greater flexibility to pursue financial and strategic opportunities to enhance shareholder value. Our Credit Agreement contains covenants and requires financial ratios and tests, which impose restrictions on our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions, as well as any failure to make a payment of interest or the principal when due, could result in a default under the Credit Agreement. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, such defaults would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the ability to borrow under this Credit Agreement could be terminated. If we are unable to repay debt to our lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. A substantial or prolonged material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition could affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in our Credit Agreement, which could result in our having to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders to avoid the termination of commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of amounts that are outstanding under our Credit Agreement. Our inability to remain competitive could have a detrimental impact on our results of operations. The professional portrait photography industry is highly competitive. Evolving technology and business relationships may make it easier and cheaper for our competitors and potential competitors to develop products or services similar to ours or to sell competing products or services in our markets. Likewise, the proliferation of amateur digital photography is making customers more discerning and demanding and has adversely affected overall portrait activity/frequency. The companies in our industry compete on the basis of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of retail distribution channel. If the Company cannot continue to provide perceived value for our customers, this could have a material adverse impact on sales and profitability. To compete successfully, we must continue to remain competitive in areas of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of distribution. If our key suppliers become unable to continue to provide us supplies under our current contracts, we will need to obtain an alternative source of supplies. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As described in “Item 1. Suppliers,” the Company purchases photographic paper, dye sublimation paper and processing chemistry from several suppliers. The Company operates most of its U.S. studios in full digital platform utilizing the software of two vendors for its studio photography digital systems. If these companies become unable to continue to provide us supplies or services under our current arrangements or if prices are increased dramatically, we will need to obtain alternative sources of supplies or services. Although management believes that the available alternative sources of supplies are adequate, there can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such supplies at the same or similar terms to those we currently have in place. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Should the Company be forced to replace its digital software vendors, related costs could increase and production could be disrupted for a period of time, which could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. 10 If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends upon, to a large extent, the efforts and abilities of our key employees, particularly our executive management team. We cannot assure you of the continued employment of any members of management. Competition for qualified management personnel is strong. The loss of the services of our key employees or the failure to retain qualified employees when needed could materially adversely affect us. A significant increase in piracy of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our photographs. However, our ability to prevent piracy and enforce our proprietary rights in our photographs is limited. We are aware that unauthorized copying of photographs occurs within our industry. A significant increase in the frequency of unauthorized copying of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues from photograph sales. Any disruption in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse impact on our business. The Company currently operates most of its U.S. studios in full digital platform utilizing the software of two vendors for its studio photography digital systems. Any material delay in the vendors’ networking environment, coupled with a failure to identify and implement alternative solutions, could have an adverse effect upon the operations of the business. Although the Company has internally developed software utilized in certain of its U.S. studios, should our software vendors no longer operate, the Company may be forced to roll out its software to all studios, which could be costly and could delay digital production for a period of time. Although on-site printing is an available alternative to central printing in the Sears’ digital environment, it currently would be difficult and costly for on-site printing to replace central fulfillment during the holiday busy season. On-site printing is available for only limited PMPS studios. Any disruption of our processing systems for any reason could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to litigation and other claims that could have an adverse effect on our business. We are a defendant in two pending legal proceedings related to allegations that the Company failed to pay certain employees for “off the clock” work and provide meal and rest breaks as required by law. Additionally, the Company is a defendant in a lawsuit regarding alleged improper use of confidential information. While we believe the claims are without merit and continue our vigorous defense, the outcomes of these proceedings are difficult to assess and quantify and therefore we cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position or results of operations. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. If these legal proceedings were to result in unfavorable outcomes, they could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations. The impact of declines in global equity markets on asset values and interest rates used to value the liabilities in our pension plan and changes in rules and regulations may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plan in future years in material amounts. The impact of declines in the global equity and bond markets on asset values may result in higher pension costs and may increase and accelerate the need to fund the pension in future years. The determination of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund the pension plan. We are subject to currency fluctuations from our operations within non-U.S. markets. For our operations conducted in Canada and Mexico, transactions are typically denominated in local currencies. Accordingly, certain costs of our operations in these foreign locations are also denominated in those local currencies. Because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our reported financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 