Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2012, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us and do not include other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial that may also affect our results of operations and financial condition.The Company may be unable to continue as a going concern.As described in the risk factors below concerning liquidity and indebtedness as well as the sections entitled Going Concern and Liquidity in Item 1, the combination of profit shortfalls, lack of adequate availability to support operational needs and uncertainty regarding the future of the Credit Agreement have created substantial doubt about the Company's ability to operate as a going concern. The Company's consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that it will continue as a going concern. While the financial statements reflect significant asset impairment and tax valuation allowances for fiscal 2011, they do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of asset carrying amounts or the amount of and classification of liabilities that may result should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm issued its report dated May 4, 2012 in connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for fiscal 2011 that included an explanatory paragraph describing the existence of conditions that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern.Management is implementing plans to improve liquidity through improvements to results from operations, store closures, cost reductions and operational alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful with our plans or that our future results of operations will improve. If sales trends do not improve, our available liquidity from cash flows from operations will be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve cash flows from operations, or that we will be able to refinance any or all of our indebtedness. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our existing sources of cash and our future cash flows from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements, including cash requirements that are due under the Credit Agreement and that are needed to fund our business operations. If we are unable to address our liquidity challenges, then our business and operating results would be materially adversely affected, and the Company may then need to curtail its business operations and/or reorganize its capital structure.The Company's primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents and the borrowing capacity under the Company's revolving credit facility.Our business is highly seasonal, with significant operating cash flow historically being generated in the fiscal fourth quarter. We currently face a liquidity shortfall due primarily to a significant reduction in our earnings and operating cash flow, which is largely attributable to lower than expected sales at the end of our third quarter and in the fourth quarter which has continued into fiscal 2012, and our current lack of committed and available borrowing capacity under our Credit Agreement.10We incurred a net loss of $56.7 million for the fiscal year ended February 4, 2012, which included significant impairment, restructuring and other related charges, and used $5.7 million of cash for operations. As of February 4, 2012, our current liabilities of $116.5 million (including $74.0 million due under our Credit Agreement) exceed our current assets of $25.3 million, and there is a total stockholders' deficit of $58.8 million. On December 21, 2011, in connection with obtaining a waiver of noncompliance with its leverage coverage ratio, the amount of availability under the Company's Credit Agreement was reduced from $105 million to $90 million. As of February 4, 2012, we are not in compliance with our financial covenants under the Credit Agreement, and such noncompliance continues to exist as of May 4, 2012.During 2012, the Company will require additional liquidity through cash flows from operations, additional borrowing capacity under our Credit Agreement, or a combination of both, to satisfy the cash flow needs of our business. It is unlikely that the Company's financial performance in fiscal 2012 will be sufficient to enable it to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet these liquidity needs and to be in compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement, as amended, for the balance of fiscal 2012 unless the Credit Agreement is further amended or the Company obtains alternative sources of funding. The Company is in active discussions with its lenders to obtain both a short-term financial debt covenant compliance waiver to cure the existing default, as well as further amendments to the Credit Agreement to avoid subsequent defaults, and to increase the borrowing capacity under the lending arrangement. There can be no assurances that the lenders will grant such waivers or amendments on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.Management is implementing plans to improve liquidity through improvements to results from operations, store closures, cost reductions and operational alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful with our plans or that our future results of operations will improve. If sales trends do not improve, our available liquidity from cash flows from operations will be materially adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to improve cash flows from operations, or that we will be able to refinance any or all of our indebtedness. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our existing sources of cash and our future cash flows from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity requirements, including cash requirements that are due under the Credit Agreement and that are needed to fund our business operations.If we are unable to address our liquidity shortfall, then our business and operating results would be materially adversely affected, and the Company may then need to curtail its business operations and/or reorganize its capital structure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any or of our indebtedness. If our debt is accelerated and we are unable to obtain other adequate financing, our existing assets are not sufficient to repay our debts in full.We have a significant amount of indebtedness and are currently not in compliance with covenants stipulated by our Credit Agreement, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate our business.As of February 4, 2012, we had $74.0 million of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement.As described more fully in Note 10 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to comply with a number of financial covenants under our Credit Agreement. The current Credit Agreement requires a leverage ratio (as defined, Total Funded Debt to EBITDA) not to exceed 2.50 to 1.00 and an interest coverage ratio (as defined, EBITDA minus capital expenditures to interest expense) that must exceed 3.00 to 1.00. On December 16, 2011, we entered into an Amendment to the Credit Agreement, which, among other things, reduced the revolving commitment from $105 million to $90 million, suspended dividend and other restricted payments, including share repurchases, and waived the Company's noncompliance of the leverage ratio covenant for the quarter ended November 12, 2011.As of February 4, 2012, the Company's calculated leverage and interest coverage ratios were 5.58 to 1.00 and 2.43 to 1.00, respectively; therefore, the Company was not in compliance with these covenants and such noncompliance continues to exist as of May 4, 2012. Furthermore, it is unlikely that the Company's financial performance in fiscal 2012 will be sufficient to enable it to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to meet the liquidity needs of the business and to be in compliance with the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement, as amended, for the balance of fiscal 2012 unless the Credit Agreement is further amended or the Company obtains alternative sources of funding. Accordingly, we are in active discussions with the lenders to secure additional borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement and to secure both a short-term financial debt covenant compliance waiver to cure the existing default, as well as further amendments to the Credit Agreement to avoid a subsequent default. There can be no assurances that the lenders will grant such waivers or amendments on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any or of our indebtedness. If our debt is accelerated and we are unable to obtain other adequate financing, our existing assets are not sufficient to repay our debts in full.If our sittings trends continue to decline, our sales results could be materially adversely affected.Consumer discretionary spending has been materially and adversely impacted by higher levels of unemployment and other negative 11economic conditions in recent years, which has significantly impacted our sittings trends over the past few years. Sittings trends have also declined due to competition and the digital evolution that has generated a "do-it-yourself" mentality in consumers. Additionally, in the second half of 2011, the Company tested certain marketing offers which were less effective than anticipated and resulted in substantial sittings declines. We are currently assessing certain strategic initiatives to improve our sittings trends; however, we cannot be certain our efforts will provide the anticipated results. If we are unable to successfully implement these initiatives, or if unemployment levels or other economic conditions worsen, our sittings trends could continue to decline and our sales results could be materially adversely affected.We are materially dependent upon Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us.Substantially all of our sales are derived from sales in Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us stores. Therefore, we are materially dependent upon our relationship with Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us, the continued goodwill of Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us and the integrity of their brand names in the retail marketplace. Any deterioration in our host relationships could have a material adverse effect on us. Because we represent only a small fraction of Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us revenues, any deterioration of any host relationship would have a far greater effect on us than on our hosts.In addition, our competitive posture could be weakened by negative changes in Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us. Our portrait studios in Walmart and Toys “R” Us are substantially dependent on customer traffic generated by our host retail stores, and if the customer traffic through these host stores decreases due to the economy or for any other reason, our sales could be materially and adversely affected.Our business practices and operations need to be acceptable to our hosts.Our business practices and procedures must at all times be acceptable to Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us. In addition, under our agreements there are substantial contractual rights, some of which are described more fully in "Item 1. Business", which the host can exercise in a manner that can have a material adverse effect on us. Consequently, in the future, we may be required to make changes to our business practices and procedures, including with regard to advertising and promotions, product offerings, studio facilities and technology in response to host requests that would not be in our best interests and could materially and adversely affect our sales, costs, margins, business development or other aspects of our business.Our hosts may terminate, breach, otherwise limit or increase our expenses under our agreements.Our Walmart, Sears and Toys “R” Us studios in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are operated pursuant to certain license and lease agreements. Our agreements have the following expiration dates: for our U.S. and Puerto Rico Walmart studios, January 2016; for our Canada Walmart Studios, 125 in 2012, 72 in 2013, 33 in 2014, 22 in 2015 and 1 in 2017; for our Mexico Walmart studios, with 30-day notice after one year of operation; for our U.S. Sears studios, December 2014; for our Canada Sears studios, August 2015; for our Puerto Rico Sears studios, December 2014; and for our U.S. Toys “R” Us studios, January 2016. These agreements are more fully described in “Item 1. The Company’s Host Relationships.”Walmart and Sears are under no obligation to renew these agreements. The agreement with Toys “R” Us provides the Company and Toys “R” Us terms to renew the agreement under certain conditions. Our hosts may also seek to increase the fees we pay under our agreements upon renewal of the agreements. We do not have the contractual right to close any poorly performing locations without Walmart’s or Sears’ consent. Under our agreement with Toys “R” Us, the Company and Toys “R” Us may close certain underperforming locations under specified conditions. In addition, our agreements do not prohibit Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us from selling many of the tangible goods we sell, or from processing digital photos in other departments within their stores. Furthermore, there is always the risk that Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us might breach our agreements. Our hosts have sufficient bargaining power to demand terms and conditions that may materially adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, under our License Agreement with Sears, Sears may terminate the agreement if the Company takes any action that is likely to materially adversely affect the Company, its Sears U.S. studios or Sears. Our 2011 operating results, our noncompliance with the covenants contained in our Credit Agreement and our need to raise additional liquidity could cause our hosts to seek to reduce the business that they conduct with us or to terminate their agreements with us, which would materially adversely affect our business and operating results. An adverse change in any other aspects of our business relationship with Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us, including the reduction of the number of studios operated pursuant to such arrangements or a decision by Walmart, Sears or Toys “R” Us to license or lease studios to other persons, could have a material adverse effect on us.If we are required to close additional studios, our financial position may be materially adversely affected.In fiscal year 2011, the Company closed 1, 9 and 3 of its PMPS, SPS and KKPS studio locations, respectively, due to underperformance, as well as 47 SPS studio locations as a result of Sears store closures or conversions. In the first quarter of 12fiscal year 2012, the Company closed 349, 5 and 125 underperforming PMPS, SPS and KKPS studios, respectively. The determination to close the PMPS studio locations, 4 of the SPS studios (free-standing) and 22 of the KKPS studio locations was the result of an in-depth analysis by the Company of its portfolio in an effort to focus resources in a manner that will generate the greatest long-term shareholder value. The decision to close the additional 103 KKPS studio locations was the result of certain minimum sales requirements not being met as stipulated by the host agreement with TRU.If our studio sales trends do not improve or if Sears closes a significant number of its stores that contain our portrait studios, we may be required to close additional studio locations in our host retail stores, which could materially adversely affect our business and operating results.We may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from the Bella Pictures® Acquisition.Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Bella Pictures® Acquisition depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of events, including the continued integration of the Bella Pictures® business into the Company. Factors that could affect the Company’s ability to achieve these benefits include:•Difficulty in integrating and managing personnel, financial reporting and other systems used by the Bella Pictures® business into the Company;•failure of the Bella Pictures® business to perform in accordance with the Company’s expectations;•failure to achieve anticipated synergies between the Company’s business and the Bella Pictures® business; and•lack of available future cash for continued investment.In fiscal year 2011, the Bella Pictures® operations sustained losses of $7.6 million. If we are unable to effectively integrate the Bella Pictures® business and begin operating as anticipated, it could materially harm the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration of Bella Pictures® has placed significant demands on administrative, operational and financial resources, and there is no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully integrate the Bella Pictures® business. Failure to successfully integrate the Bella Pictures® business with CPI and manage the challenges presented by the integration process, as well as failure to obtain adequate future cash for continued investment, may prevent the Company from achieving anticipated benefits of the acquisition and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.Higher levels of unemployment and other negative economic conditions in recent years has materially impacted consumer spending and adversely affected our financial position.Consumer discretionary spending has been materially and adversely impacted by higher levels of unemployment and other negative economic conditions in recent years, which have affected consumer confidence and disposable income. If consumer discretionary spending declines, demand for our products could decrease and we may be forced to discount our merchandise, which in turn could reduce our revenues, gross margins, operating cash flows and earnings. Additionally, our business is highly seasonal, with the largest volume occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, between Thanksgiving and Christmas. The fourth quarters in fiscal 2011 and 2010 accounted for approximately 30% and 32% of total net sales for the respective years. As a result, any adverse impact on our fourth quarter operating results would significantly impact annual operating results. Our fourth quarter operating results may fluctuate significantly based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns and economic and weather conditions.Our inability to remain competitive could have a detrimental impact on our results of operations.The professional portrait photography industry is highly competitive. Evolving technology and business relationships may make it easier and cheaper for our competitors and potential competitors to develop products or services similar to ours or to sell competing products or services in our markets. Likewise, the proliferation of amateur digital photography is making customers more discerning and demanding and has adversely affected overall portrait activity/frequency.The companies in our industry compete on the basis of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of retail distribution channel. If the Company cannot continue to provide perceived value for our customers, this could have a material adverse impact on sales and profitability. To compete successfully, we must continue to remain competitive in the areas of price, service, quality, location, product mix and offerings and convenience of distribution.If our key suppliers become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us supplies under our current contracts, we will need to obtain an alternative source of supplies. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.As described in “Item 1. Suppliers,” the Company purchases photographic paper, dye sublimation paper, processing chemistry 13and other equipment and materials from several suppliers. We operate our U.S. studios in full digital platform utilizing a fully paid perpetual license to use the software and source code from one vendor for our studio photography digital systems which allows us to scale the use of the software as necessary to support our studios. If these companies become unable or unwilling to continue to provide us supplies or services under our current arrangements, or if prices are increased dramatically, we will need to obtain alternative sources of supplies or services.Although management believes that the available alternative sources of supplies are adequate, there can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such supplies at the same or similar terms to those we currently have in place. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Should the Company be forced to replace its digital software vendor, related costs could increase and production could be disrupted for a period of time, which could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations.If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected.Our continued success depends upon, to a large extent, the efforts and abilities of our key employees, particularly our executive management team. We cannot assure you of the continued employment of any members of management. Competition for qualified management personnel is strong. The loss of the services of our key employees or the failure to retain qualified employees when needed could materially adversely affect us.A significant increase in piracy of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We rely on copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our photographs. However, our ability to prevent piracy and enforce our proprietary rights in our photographs is limited. We are aware that unauthorized copying of photographs occurs within our industry. A significant increase in the frequency of unauthorized copying of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues from photograph sales.Any disruption in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse impact on our business.We currently operate our U.S. studios in full digital platform utilizing a fully paid perpetual license to use the software and source code from one vendor for our studio photography digital systems, which allows us to scale the use of the software as necessary to support our studios. Any material delay in the vendor's networking environment, coupled with a failure to implement alternative solutions, could have an adverse effect upon the operations of the business. Although the Company has internally developed software utilized in its international studios, should our software vendor no longer operate, the Company may be forced to roll out its software to all studios, which could be costly and could delay digital production for a period of time. Although on-site printing is an available alternative to central printing in the Sears’ and Kiddie Kandids studios, it currently would be difficult and costly for on-site printing to replace central fulfillment during the holiday busy season. On-site printing is available for only limited PMPS studios. Any disruption of our processing systems for any reason could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.If our long-lived tangible assets become further impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant.A material portion of our long-term assets consist of property and equipment. We review property and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. As a result of lower than anticipated sales experienced in 2011, primarily in the fourth quarter, the Company performed impairment tests for certain of its asset groups as of February 4, 2012 and recorded a $13.6 million impairment charge in fiscal 2011 related to certain property and equipment. The recoverability of our property and equipment is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future cash flows. Any changes in estimates, circumstances or conditions, resulting from both internal and external factors, such as studio sales trends, could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to recover its investment in property and equipment from future cash flows, which could then result in additional material impairment charges in our results of operations.If our goodwill or intangible assets become further impaired, we will be required to record additional impairment charges, which may be significant.A material portion of our long-term assets consist of goodwill and intangible assets representing our PMPS host agreement recorded as a result of the PCA Acquisition. We do not amortize goodwill, but rather review it for impairment on an annual basis or, along with our intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. 14As a result of the Company's significant decline in its stock price and lower than anticipated sales experienced in 2011, primarily in the fourth quarter, the Company performed a goodwill impairment test as of February 4, 2012 and recorded a $12.1 million impairment charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 related to goodwill on its PMPS and SPS reporting units. Furthermore, we recognized an impairment of $4.7 million related to our PMPS host agreement asset. The recoverability of our goodwill and intangible assets is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future earnings and cash flows. Any changes in estimates, circumstances or conditions, resulting from both internal and external factors, such as PMPS studio sales trends, could have a significant impact on our ability to recover our goodwill and PMPS host agreement asset, which could then result in additional material impairment charges in our results of operations.We are subject to litigation and other claims that could have an adverse effect on our business.We are a defendant in a pending legal proceeding related to allegations that the Company failed to pay certain employees for “off the clock” work and provide meal and rest breaks as required by law. Additionally, the Company is a defendant in three separate lawsuits regarding alleged improper use of confidential information, false statements and omissions that caused CPI common stock to trade at artificially inflated prices and breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. The outcomes of these proceedings are currently undeterminable and we are unable to estimate the financial impact to the Company, if any. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. If these legal proceedings were to result in unfavorable outcomes, they could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position and results of operations.The impact of declines in global equity markets on asset values and interest rates used to value the liabilities in our pension plan and changes in rules and regulations may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plan in future years in material amounts.The impact of declines in the global equity and bond markets on asset values may result in higher pension costs and may increase and accelerate the need to fund the pension in future years. The determination of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund the pension plan.We are subject to currency fluctuations from our operations within non-U.S. markets.For our operations conducted in Canada and Mexico, transactions are typically denominated in local currencies. Accordingly, certain costs of our operations in these foreign locations are also denominated in those local currencies. Because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our reported financial results.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.