Item 1A. Risk Factors We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2008, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us and do not include other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial that may also affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are materially dependent upon Sears and Wal-Mart. Substantially all of our sales are derived from sales in Sears and Wal-Mart stores. Therefore, we are materially dependent upon our relationship with Sears and Wal-Mart, the continued goodwill of Sears and Wal-Mart and the integrity of their brand names in the retail marketplace. Any deterioration in our host relationships could have a material adverse effect on us. Because we represent only a small fraction of Sears and Wal-Mart revenues, any deterioration of either host relationship would have a far greater effect on us than on our hosts. In addition, our competitive posture could be weakened by negative changes in Sears’ or Wal-Mart’s competitive posture. Our portrait studios are substantially dependent on customer traffic generated by our host retail stores, and if the customer traffic through these host stores decreases due to the economic downturn or for any other reason, our sales could be materially and adversely affected. Our business practices and operations need to be acceptable to our hosts. Because of the importance of our Sears and Wal-Mart relationships, our business practices and procedures must at all times be acceptable to the host. In addition, under our agreements there are substantial contractual rights, the most significant of which are described more fully in “Item 1. Business,” which the host can exercise in a manner that can have a material adverse effect on us. Consequently, in the future, we may be required to make changes to our business practices and procedures, including with regard to advertising and promotions, product offerings, studio facilities and technology in response to host requests that would not be in our best interests and could materially and adversely affect our sales, costs, margins, business development or other aspects of our business. Our hosts may terminate, breach, otherwise limit or increase our expenses under our agreements. Our Sears and Wal-Mart studios in the U.S., Canada and Mexico are operated pursuant to certain license and lease agreements. Our agreements have the following expiration dates: for our U.S. Sears studios, December 2014; for our U.S. and Puerto Rico Wal-Mart studios, June 2010; for our Canadian Wal-Mart Studios, 111 in 2009, 102 in 2010, 24 in 2011, 10 in 2012, 4 in 2013 and 4 in 2014; and for our Mexican Wal-Mart studios, with 30-day notice after one year of operation. For our Canadian Sears studios, the agreement has expired and we are currently operating our studios under the terms of such agreement as discussions continue with Sears Canada to arrive at a mutually satisfactory extension or new agreement. For our Puerto Rico Sears studios, the agreement expired December 31, 2008, and the Company currently operates under the terms of the previous agreement until a new agreement is reached, provided however, that we pay the same commission on net sales in Puerto Rico as we now pay in the U.S. These agreements are more fully described in “Item 1. The Company’s Host Relationships.” Sears and Wal-Mart are under no obligation to renew these agreements. They may also seek to increase the fees we pay under our agreements upon renewal of the agreements. We do not have the contractual right to close any poorly performing locations without Sears or Wal-Mart’s consent. In addition, our agreements do not prohibit Sears and Wal-Mart from selling many of the tangible goods we sell, or from processing film or digital photos, in other departments within their stores. Furthermore, there is always the risk that Sears or Wal-Mart might breach our agreements. The loss or breach of the agreements could have a material adverse effect on us. An adverse change in any other aspects of our business relationship with Sears or Wal-Mart, including the reduction of the number of studios operated pursuant to such arrangements or a decision by Sears or Wal-Mart to license or lease studios, respectively, to other persons could have a material adverse effect on us. 9 The economic recession has materially impacted consumer spending and may adversely affect our financial position. Consumer discretionary spending has been materially and adversely impacted by the current recession, job losses, volatile energy and food costs, greater levels of unemployment, higher levels of consumer debt, declines in home values and in the value of consumers' investments and savings, restrictions on the availability of credit and other negative economic conditions which have affected consumer confidence and disposable income. If consumer discretionary spending continues to decline, demand for our products could decrease and we may be forced to discount our merchandise, which in turn could reduce our revenues, gross margins, operating cash flows and earnings. In addition, higher transportation costs, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, and other negative economic factors may increase our cost of sales and operating expenses. Additionally, our business is highly seasonal, with the largest volume occurring in the fourth fiscal quarter, between Thanksgiving and Christmas. The fourth quarters in fiscal 2008 and 2007 accounted for approximately 33% and 38%, respectively, of total net sales for the year. As a result, any adverse impact on our fourth quarter operating results would significantly impact annual operating results. Our fourth quarter operating results may fluctuate significantly based on many factors, including holiday spending patterns, prevailing economic conditions and weather conditions. We have been notified by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) that we did not meet its continued listing requirements. If we are unable to rectify this non-compliance, our common stock may be delisted from trading on the NYSE, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our common stock. In addition to several other continued listing standards, the NYSE requires that issuers with securities listed on the NYSE maintain an average market capitalization, over a 30-day trading period, greater than $75 million and stockholders' equity greater than $75 million. On November 4, 2008, the NYSE notified us that we were not in compliance with this continued listing standard. We have submitted a business plan to the NYSE demonstrating how we plan to regain compliance with this standard within 18 months of receipt of the notice. On February 1, 2009, we received notice from the NYSE that it had approved our plan and is monitoring our compliance with our plan. If we are not able to successfully implement our business plan within the 18-month time period allotted, our common stock may be delisted from the NYSE. Delisting could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock, reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock and limiting our ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We have a high level of indebtedness, which may impair our ability to operate effectively and impair future performances. As of February 7, 2009, we had $105.7 million of indebtedness under the term loan portion of our existing Credit Agreement. This level of debt and the limitations imposed by the Company’s debt agreements could adversely affect operating flexibility and put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. The Company’s debt level may adversely affect future performance. The ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay interest on, or to refinance indebtedness and to satisfy other debt and lease obligations will depend upon future operating performance, which may be affected by factors beyond the Company’s control. In addition, there can be no assurance that future borrowings or equity financing will be available to the Company on favorable terms or at all for the payment or refinancing of indebtedness. If the Company is unable to service indebtedness, the business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The agreements governing our debt impose restrictions on our business. Our credit agreement contains covenants and requires financial ratios and tests, which impose restrictions on our business. Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including, but not limited to, prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. The breach of any of these covenants or restrictions, as well as any failure to make a payment of interest or principal when due, could result in a default under the credit agreement. Such a default would permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and the ability to borrow under this agreement could be terminated. If we are unable to repay debt to our lenders, these lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that debt. If economic conditions do not improve, or worsen, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, a substantial or prolonged material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition could affect our ability to satisfy the financial covenants in our senior secured credit agreement, which could result in our having to seek amendments or waivers from our lenders to avoid the termination of commitments and/or the acceleration of the maturity of amounts that are outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility. Effective April 16, 2009, the Company amended its Credit Agreement to allow more flexibility should the economy worsen, see further details on the amendment in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section. This amendment significantly reduces this risk of a breach of our financial covenants. However, if the economic conditions worsen to a degree that would not be covered by the recent amendment, the cost of obtaining an additional amendment or waiver could be significant, and could substantially increase our cost of borrowing over the remaining term of our senior secured credit agreement. Further, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a future amendment or waiver. If our lenders were unwilling to enter into an amendment or provide a waiver, all amounts outstanding under our term loan and revolving credit facility would become immediately due and payable. 10 Our inability to remain competitive could have a detrimental impact on our results of operations. The professional portrait photography industry is highly competitive. Evolving technology and business relationships may make it easier and cheaper for our competitors and potential competitors to develop products or services similar to ours or to sell competing products or services in our markets. Likewise, the proliferation of amateur digital photography is making customers more discerning and demanding and has adversely affected overall portrait activity/frequency. The companies in our industry compete on the basis of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of retail distribution channel. If the Company cannot continue to provide perceived value for our customers, this could have a material adverse impact on sales and profitability. To compete successfully, we must continue to remain competitive in areas of price, service, quality, location, product mix and convenience of distribution. If our key suppliers become unable to continue to provide us supplies under our current contracts, we will need to obtain an alternative source of supplies. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As described in “Item 1. Suppliers,” the Company purchases photographic paper, dye sublimation paper and chemistry from several suppliers. Additionally, the Company utilizes the software of a single vendor for our studio photography and manufacturing fulfillment for digital systems. If these companies become unable to continue to provide us supplies or services under our current arrangements or if prices are increased dramatically, we will need to obtain alternative sources of supplies or services. Although management believes that the available alternative sources of supplies are adequate, there can be no assurance we would be able to obtain such supplies at the same or similar terms to those we currently have in place. If we enter into an agreement to obtain such supplies at less desirable terms, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Should the Company be forced to replace its digital software vendor, related costs could increase and production could be disrupted for a period of time, which could have a material adverse impact on the results of operations. If we lose our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends upon, to a large extent, the efforts and abilities of our key employees, particularly our executive management team. We cannot assure you of the continued employment of any members of management. Competition for qualified management personnel is strong. The loss of the services of our key employees or the failure to retain qualified employees when needed could materially adversely affect us. A significant increase in piracy of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on copyright laws to protect our proprietary rights in our photographs. However, our ability to prevent piracy and enforce our proprietary rights in our photographs is limited. We are aware that unauthorized copying of photographs occurs within our industry. A significant increase in the frequency of unauthorized copying of our photographs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by reducing revenues from photograph sales. Any disruption in our manufacturing process could have a material adverse impact on our business. Although the Company is moving to internally developed software, our digital platform currently utilizes the software of a single vendor for our studio photography and manufacturing fulfillment digital systems. Any material delay in the vendor’s networking environment, coupled with a failure to identify and implement alternative solutions, could have an adverse effect upon the operations of the business. Additionally, should this vendor no longer operate, the Company may be forced to find another source of this support, which could be more costly and could delay digital production for a period of time. Although on-site printing is an available alternative to central printing in the Sears’ digital environment, it currently would be difficult and costly for on-site printing to replace central fulfillment during the holiday busy season. On-site printing is not available for our PictureMe Portrait Studio® business. Any disruption of our processing systems for any reason could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 We are subject to litigation and other claims that could have an adverse effect on our business. We are a defendant in certain pending legal proceedings relating to allegations that the Company failed to pay certain employees for “off the clock” work and provide meal and rest breaks as required by law and that the Company’s operation of PictureMe Portrait Studios® infringes on a certain trademark related to picture books. While we believe the claims are without merit and continue our vigorous defense, the outcome of these proceedings is difficult to assess and quantify and therefore we cannot determine whether the financial impact, if any, will be material to our financial position or results of operations. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. If any of these legal proceedings were to result in an unfavorable outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The impact of declines in global equity markets on asset values and interest rates used to value the liabilities in our pension plan and changes in rules and regulations may result in higher pension costs and the need to fund the pension plan in future years in material amounts. The impact of declines in the global equity and bond markets on asset values may result in higher pension costs and may increase and accelerate the need to fund the pension in future years. The determination of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund the pension plan. We are subject to currency fluctuations from our operations within non-U.S. markets For our operations conducted in Canada and Mexico, transactions are typically denominated in local currencies. Accordingly, certain costs of our operations in these foreign locations are also denominated in those local currencies. Because our financial statements are stated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our reported financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 