Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a description of what we consider the key challenges and risks confronting our business. This discussion should be considered in conjunction with the discussion under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” preceding Part I, the information set forth under Item 1, “Business” and with the discussion of the business included in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These risks comprise the material risks of which we are aware. If any of the events or developments described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any documents that we subsequently file publicly were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to numerous lawsuits for asbestos-related personal injury, and costs associated with these lawsuits may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. We are subject to numerous lawsuits for asbestos-related personal injury. Estimation of our ultimate exposure for asbestos-related claims is subject to significant uncertainties, as there are multiple variables that can affect the timing, severity and quantity of claims. Our estimate of the future expense of these claims is derived from assumptions with respect to future claims, settlement and defense costs which are based on experience during the last few years and which may not prove reliable as predictors. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, depending on the nature of the alleged injury, the jurisdiction where filed and the quality of the product identification, or a significant upward or downward trend in the costs of defending claims, could change the estimated liability, as would substantial adverse verdicts at trial or on appeal. A legislative solution or a structured settlement transaction could also change the estimated liability. These uncertainties may result in us incurring future charges or increases to income to adjust the carrying value of recorded liabilities and assets, particularly if the number of claims and settlements and defense costs escalates or if legislation or another alternative solution is implemented; however, we are currently unable to predict such future events. The resolution of these claims may take many years, and the effect on results of operations, cash flow and financial position in any given period from a revision to these estimates could be material. As of December 31, 2010, we were one of a number of defendants in cases involving approximately 65,000 pending claims filed in various state and federal courts that allege injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. See Note 10, “Commitments and Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on: • Our pending claims; • Our historical settlement and defense costs for asbestos claims; • The liability we have recorded in our financial statements for pending and reasonably anticipated asbestos claims through 2017; • The asset we have recorded in our financial statements related to our estimated insurance coverage for asbestos claims; and • Uncertainties related to our net asbestos liability. We have recorded a liability for pending and reasonably anticipated asbestos claims through 2017, and while it is probable that this amount will change and that we may incur additional liabilities for asbestos claims after 2017, which additional liabilities may be significant, we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of such additional liabilities at this time. Macroeconomic fluctuations may harm our business, results of operations and stock price. Beginning in the second half of 2008 and through 2009, the global economy slowed dramatically as a result of a variety of problems, including turmoil in the credit and financial markets, concerns regarding the stability and viability of major financial institutions, the state of the housing markets and volatility in fuel prices and worldwide stock markets. Restrictions on credit availability have and could continue to adversely affect the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and could result in decreases in or cancellation of orders for our products and services as well as impact the ability of our customers to make payments. Similarly, credit restrictions may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. While economic conditions began showing signs of gradual improvement during 2010, the overall rate of global recovery experienced during the year was uneven and uncertainty continues to exist over the stability of the recovery. A return to unfavorable economic conditions, or even an increase in economic uncertainty, could harm our business by adversely affecting our revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. See “Specific Risks Relating to Our Business Segments.” Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and reputation. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For example, during 2008, we recorded a charge of $24 million, related to increases in our expected liability at our Goodyear, Arizona Superfund site pursuant to changes in site conditions. 11 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and reputation. Primarily in our Aerospace & Electronics and Fluid Handling segments, we are required to comply with various import and export control laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. In addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, fines, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to export products and services, and damage to our reputation. The prices of our raw materials can fluctuate dramatically, which may adversely affect our profitability. The costs of certain raw materials that are critical to our profitability are volatile. This volatility can have a significant impact on our profitability. In our Engineered Materials segment, for example, profits could be adversely affected by further increases in resin and fiberglass material costs and by the inability on the part of the businesses to maintain their position in product cost and functionality against competing materials. The costs in our Fluid Handling and Merchandising Systems segments similarly are affected by fluctuations in the price of metals such as steel and copper. While we have taken actions aimed at securing an adequate supply of raw materials at prices which are favorable to us, if the prices of critical raw materials continue to increase, our operating costs could be negatively affected. Our ability to obtain parts and raw materials from our suppliers is uncertain, and any disruptions or delays in our supply chain could negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations require significant amounts of important parts and raw materials. We are engaged in a continuous, company-wide effort to concentrate our purchases of parts and raw materials on fewer suppliers, and to obtain parts from suppliers in low-cost countries where possible. If we are unable to procure these parts or raw materials, our operations may be disrupted, or we could experience a delay or halt in certain of our manufacturing operations. We believe that our supply management and production practices are based on an appropriate balancing of the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier financial condition, price volatility or the unavailability of some raw materials may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Demand for our products is variable and subject to factors beyond our control, which could result in unanticipated events significantly impacting our results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales is concentrated in industries that are cyclical in nature or subject to market conditions which may cause customer demand for our products to be volatile. These industries often are subject to fluctuations in domestic and international economies as well as to currency fluctuations and inflationary pressures. Reductions in the business levels of these industries would reduce the sales and profitability of the affected business segments. In our Aerospace & Electronics segment, for example, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or a decline in airline profitability generally, could result in reduced orders for aircraft and could also cause airlines to reduce their purchases of repair parts from our businesses. Our Aerospace businesses could also be impacted to the extent that major aircraft manufacturers encountered production problems, or if pricing pressure from aircraft customers caused the manufacturers to press their suppliers to lower prices. In our Engineered Materials segment, sales and profits could be affected by declines in demand for truck trailers, RVs, or building products. In our Fluid Handling segment, a slower recovery of the economy or major markets could reduce sales and profits, particularly if projects for which these businesses are suppliers or bidders are cancelled or delayed. Results in our Controls segment could decline because of an unanticipated decline in demand for the businesses’ products from the oil and gas or heavy truck markets, or from unforeseen product obsolescence. Results at our Merchandising Systems segment could be affected by sustained low employment levels, office occupancy rates and factors affecting vending operator profitability such as higher fuel, confection and borrowing costs. We could face potential product liability or warranty claims, we may not accurately estimate costs related to such claims, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage available to cover such claims. Our products are used in a wide variety of commercial applications and certain residential applications. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability or other claims in the event our products are alleged to be defective or that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in harm to others or to property. We may in the future incur liability if product liability lawsuits against us are successful. Moreover, any such lawsuits, whether or not successful, could result in adverse publicity to us, which could cause our sales to decline. In addition, consistent with industry practice, we provide warranties on many of our products and we may experience costs of warranty or breach of contract claims if our products have defects in manufacture or design or they do not meet contractual specifications. We estimate our future warranty costs based on historical trends and product sales, but we may fail to accurately estimate those costs and thereby fail to establish adequate warranty reserves for them. We maintain insurance coverage to protect us against product liability claims, but that coverage may not be adequate to cover all claims that may arise or we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance coverage in the future at an acceptable cost. Any liability not covered by insurance or that exceeds our established reserves could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A We may be unable to improve productivity, reduce costs and align manufacturing capacity with customer demand. We are committed to continuous productivity improvement and continue to evaluate opportunities to reduce costs, simplify or improve global processes, and increase the reliability of order fulfillment and satisfaction of customer needs. In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, we announce from time to time restructuring activities, which include workforce reductions and facility consolidations. For example, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and through 2009, in response to disruptions in the credit markets and a substantially weakened global economy, we implemented restructuring and general cost reduction activities in order to align our cost base to then lower levels of demand. In 2010, we maintained our reduced cost structure and certain of our target markets began to show signs of recovery. However, our failure to respond to further declines in global demand for our products and services and properly align our cost base would have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, which would limit our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our growth depends, in part, on continued sales of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of customer acceptance and reaction from competitors. Any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Further, the development and introduction of new products may require us to make investments in specialized personnel and capital equipment, increase marketing efforts and reallocate resources away from other uses. We also may need to modify our systems and strategy in light of new products that we develop. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations related to new products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Pension expense and pension contributions associated with the Company’s retirement benefit plans may fluctuate significantly depending upon changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance of plan assets. A significant portion of our current and retired employee population is covered by pension and post-retirement benefit plans, the costs of which are dependent upon various assumptions, including estimates of rates of return on benefit related assets, discount rates for future payment obligations, rates of future cost growth and trends for future costs. In addition, funding requirements for benefit obligations of our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are subject to legislative and other government regulatory actions. Variances from these estimates could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flow. For example, the volatility in the financial markets resulted in lower than expected returns on our pension assets in 2008, which resulted in higher pension expense and contributions in subsequent years. We recorded pension expense of $14 million, $18 million and $0 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to our defined-benefit pension plans. In addition, we contributed $42 million, $33 million and $10 million to our defined-benefit pension plans in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, of which $25 million and $17 million was made on a discretionary basis to our U.S. defined benefit plan in 2010 and 2009, respectively, to improve the funded status of this plan and to reduce future expected contributions. We expect our pension expense and contributions in 2011 to be $10 million and $15 million, respectively. We may be unable to identify or to complete acquisitions, or to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential acquisition transactions. Our acquisition program attempts to address the potential risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent or other liabilities, systems of internal control and potential profitability of acquisition candidates, as well as other challenges such as retaining the employees and integrating the operations of the businesses we acquire. Integrating acquired operations, such as the recent acquisitions of Merrimac and Money Controls, involves significant risks and uncertainties, including: • Maintenance of uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • Distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations during the integration process; • Expenses associated with the integration efforts; and • Unidentified issues not discovered in the due diligence process, including legal contingencies. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition opportunities will be available in the future, that we will continue to acquire businesses or that any business acquired will be integrated successfully or prove profitable, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to achieve our growth goals depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. We face significant competition which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position in the future. While we are a principal competitor in most of our markets, all of our markets are highly competitive. The competitors in many of our business segments can be expected in the future to improve technologies, reduce costs and develop and introduce new products, and the ability of our business segments to achieve similar advances will be important to our competitive positions. Competitive pressures, including those discussed above, could cause one or more of our business segments to lose market share or could result in significant price erosion, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the United States and face risks inherent in non-domestic operations. Net sales and assets related to our operations outside the United States were 40% and 41% in 2010, and 40% and 33% in 2009, respectively, of our consolidated amounts. These operations and transactions are subject to the risks associated with conducting 13 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A business internationally, including the risks of currency fluctuations, slower payment of invoices, adverse trade regulations and possible social, economic and political instability in the countries and regions in which we operate. We are dependent on key personnel, and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain additional personnel needed for us to sustain and grow our business as planned. Certain of our business segments and corporate offices are dependent upon highly qualified personnel, and we generally are dependent upon the continued efforts of key management employees. We may have difficulty retaining such personnel or locating and hiring additional qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, many of whom are not party to employment agreements with us, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms could impair our ability to successfully sustain and grow our business, which could impact our results of operations in a materially adverse manner. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. We believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, increased risk of internal control breakdowns generally exists in a business environment that is decentralized. In addition, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our stock price. Specific Risks Relating to Our Business Segments The macroeconomic climate represents one of the most significant risks for 2011 and could cause our customers across our business segments to delay, forego or reduce the amount of their investments in our products or delay payments of amounts due to us. In addition, declines in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, the British pound or the Canadian dollar, could adversely affect our reported results, primarily in our Fluid Handling and Merchandising Systems segments, as amounts earned in other countries are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. Aerospace & Electronics Our Aerospace & Electronics segment is particularly affected by economic conditions in the commercial and military aerospace industries which are cyclical in nature and affected by periodic downturns that are beyond our control. Although the operating environment currently faced by commercial airlines has shown signs of gradual improvement in 2010, uncertainty continues to exist. The principal markets for manufacturers of commercial aircraft are large commercial airlines, which could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including current and predicted traffic levels, load factors, aircraft fuel pricing, worldwide airline profits, terrorism, pandemic health issues and general economic conditions. Our commercial business is also affected by the market for business jets which could be adversely impacted by a decline in business travel due to lower corporate profitability. In addition, a portion of this segment’s business is conducted under U.S. government contracts and subcontracts; therefore, a reduction in Congressional appropriations that affect defense spending or the ability of the U.S. government to terminate our contracts could impact the performance of this business. Our sales to military customers are also affected by a continued pressure on U.S. and global defense spending and the level of activity in military flight operations. Furthermore, due to the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing commercial and military products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. In addition, if we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations related to new products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. In addition, we are required to comply with various export control laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, fines, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to export products and services, and damage to our reputation. Engineered Materials In our Engineered Materials segments, sales and profits could fall if there were a decline in demand for trucks trailers, RVs and building products for which our business produce fiberglass panels. While RV orders improved in late 2009 and through most of 2010, given that a large portion of the improvement related to inventory restocking, future demand remains uncertain. In addition, profits could also be adversely affected by further increases in resin and fiberglass material costs, by the loss of a principal supplier or by any inability on the part of the business to maintain product cost and functionality advantages when compared to competing materials. In addition, we are defending five consolidated lawsuits, revolving around a fire that occurred in May 2003 at a chicken processing plant located near Atlanta, Georgia that destroyed the plant. The aggregate damages demanded by the plaintiff, consisting largely of an estimate of lost profits which continues to grow with the passage of time, are currently in excess of $260 million. These lawsuits contend that certain fiberglass-reinforced plastic material manufactured by the Company that was installed inside the plant was unsafe in that it acted as an accelerant, causing the fire to spread rapidly. In September 2009, as the case was nearing its trial date, the parties filed dispositive motions, all of which were denied. The parties appealed those rulings, and the appellate court rejected the plaintiffs’ claims for per se negligence and statutory violations of the Georgia Life Safety Code, but allowed the plaintiffs to proceed on their ordinary negligence claims. The case is expected to be tried in the Fall of 2011. We believe that we have valid defenses to the remaining claims alleged in these lawsuits. We have given notice of these lawsuits to our insurance carriers and will seek coverage for any resulting losses. Our carriers have issued standard reservation of rights letters but are engaged with our trial counsel to monitor the defense of these claims. If the plaintiffs in these lawsuits were to prevail at trial and be awarded the full extent of their claimed damages, and insurance coverage were not fully available, the 14 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A resulting liability could have a significant effect on our results of operations and cash flow in the periods affected. Merchandising Systems Results at our Merchandising Systems businesses could be reduced by unfavorable economic conditions, including sustained or increased levels of unemployment, inflation for key raw materials and continued increases in fuel costs. In addition, delays in launching or supplying new products or an inability to achieve new product sales objectives, or unfavorable changes in gaming regulations affecting certain of our Payment Solutions customers would adversely affect our profitability. Results at our foreign locations have been and will continue to be affected by fluctuations in the value of the euro, the British pound and the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. We also may not be able to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of Money Controls. Fluid Handling The markets for our Fluid Handling businesses’ products and services are fragmented and highly competitive. We compete against large and well established national and global companies, as well as smaller regional and local companies. While we compete based on technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, quality and reliability, the competitive influence of pricing has broadened as a result of the recent global economic downturn and generally weaker demand levels. Demand for most of our products and services depend on the level of new capital investment and planned maintenance expenditures by our customers. The level of capital expenditures by our customers depends in turn on general economic conditions, availability of credit and expectation of future market behavior. Additionally, volatility in commodity prices could negatively affect the level of these activities and continued postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of projects. Throughout 2010, we experienced continued depressed conditions for process valves served by our Crane Energy business in the North American power market and downstream oil and gas markets, both of which have been particularly affected by the economic downturn. Continued weakness in these markets and/or further delays in large process valve projects may put further pressure on operating margins in our Fluid Handling segment. In addition, to the extent we are unable to effectively reduce our cost base in response to further, unanticipated declines in demand for our products, our operating results would be adversely affected. In addition, at our foreign operations, reported results in U.S. dollar terms could be eroded by a weakening of currency of the respective businesses, particularly where we operate using the euro, British pound and Canadian dollar. Controls A number of factors could affect operating results in our Controls segment. Lower sales and earnings could result if our businesses cannot maintain their cost competitiveness, encounter delays in introducing new products or fail to achieve their new product sales objectives. Results could decline because of an unanticipated decline in demand for the businesses’ products from the industrial machinery, oil and gas or heavy equipment industries, or from unforeseen product obsolescence. A portion of this segment’s business is subject to government rules and regulations. Failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to export products and services, and damage to our reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 15 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 2 