Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a description of what we consider the key challenges and risks confronting our business. This discussion should be considered in conjunction with the discussion under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately following, and with the discussion of risks and uncertainties of the business included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We are subject to significant, continuing asbestos litigation, as well as other claims and proceedings. We are subject to numerous lawsuits for asbestos-related personal injury, as described more fully in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this document. Estimation of the Company’s ultimate exposure for asbestos-related claims is subject to significant uncertainties, as there are multiple variables that can affect the timing, severity and quantity of claims. Our estimate of the future expense of these claims is derived from assumptions with respect to future claims, settlement and defense costs which are based on recent experience during the last few years and which may not prove reliable as predictors. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, depending on the nature of the alleged injury, the jurisdiction where filed and the quality of the product identification, or a significant upward or downward trend in the costs of defending claims, could change the estimated liability, as would any substantial adverse verdict at trial. A legislative solution or a structured settlement transaction could also change the estimated liability. These uncertainties may result in our incurring future charges or increases to income to adjust the carrying value of recorded liabilities and assets, particularly if the number of claims and settlement and defense costs escalates or if legislation or another alternative solution is implemented; however, we are currently unable to estimate such future changes. The resolution of these claims may take many years and the effect on results of operations, cash flow and financial position in any given period from a revision to these estimates could be material. In addition to asbestos lawsuits, we are subject to claims and proceedings relating to the ordinary conduct of our business, such as those involving employment disputes, contract disputes, allegations of infringement on patents and trademarks, personal injuries, product liability and other types of claims. For more information with respect to the risks to Crane Co. associated with asbestos liability and other litigation, see Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this document. Demand for our products is uncertain and subject to factors beyond our control. In the Aerospace and Electronics segment, for example, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or a decline in airline profitability generally, could result in reduced orders for aircraft and could also cause airlines to reduce their purchases of repair parts from Crane’s businesses. The aerospace businesses could also be impacted if major aircraft manufacturers, such as Boeing (which represented approximately 13% of the segment’s revenue in 2006) encountered production problems, or if pricing pressure from aircraft customers caused the manufacturers to press their suppliers to lower prices. In the Engineered Materials segment, sales and profits could fall if there were a decline in demand for truck trailers, recreational vehicles, or industrial or building products. Results in the Controls segment could decline because of an unanticipated decline in demand for the businesses’ products from the oil and gas or heavy truck markets, or from unforeseen product obsolescence. Results at the Company’s Merchandising Systems business have been and will continue to be affected by employment levels, office occupancy rates and factors affecting vending operator profitability such as fuel, confection and borrowing costs. The prices of our raw materials may increase. In the Engineered Materials segment, for example, profits could be adversely affected by unanticipated increases in resin and fiberglass material costs and by any inability on the part of the businesses to maintain their position in product cost and functionality against competing materials. The costs in the Company’s Fluid Handling and Merchandising Systems segments are affected by fluctuations in the price of metals such as steel. Our ability to obtain parts and raw materials from our suppliers is uncertain. We are engaged in a continuous, company-wide effort to concentrate our purchases of parts and raw materials on fewer suppliers, and to obtain parts from low-cost countries where possible. As this effort progresses, we are exposed to an increased risk of disruptions to our supply chain, which could have a significant effect on our operating results. We may be unable to identify or to complete acquisitions, or to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Our acquisition program entails the potential risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent or other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; and in retaining the employees and integrating the operations of the businesses we acquire. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition opportunities will be available in the future, that the Company will continue to acquire businesses or that any business acquired will be integrated successfully or prove profitable. 8 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A We face significant competition. While the Company is a principal competitor in most of its markets, all of its markets are highly competitive. The Company’s competitors in many of its business segments can be expected in the future to improve technologies, reduce costs and develop and introduce new products, and the ability of the Company’s business segments to achieve similar advances will be important to their competitive positions. Competitive pressures, including those discussed above, could cause one or more of the Company’s business segments to lose market share or could result in significant price erosion, either of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. See the prior discussion included in Item 1 under the caption “Competitive Conditions.” We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the United States. Net sales and assets related to operations outside the United States were 37.0% and 31.4% in 2006, and 36.4% and 26.3% in 2005, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated amounts. Such operations and transactions entail the risks associated with conducting business internationally, including the risks of currency fluctuations, slower payment of invoices, adverse trade regulations and possible social, economic and political instability. Our customers’ businesses are cyclical. A substantial portion of the sales of our business segments are concentrated in industries that are cyclical. Their results are subject to fluctuations in domestic and international economies as well as to currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures. Reductions in the business levels of these industries would reduce the sales and profitability of the affected business segments. We are dependent on key personnel. Certain of the Company’s business segments and Corporate are dependent upon highly qualified personnel, and the Company generally is dependent upon the continued efforts of key management employees. 9 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A Forward-Looking Statements Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Annual Report to Shareholders, particularly in the Letter to Shareholders and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the Company makes numerous statements about expectations of future performance and market trends and statements about plans and objectives and other matters which because they are not historical fact, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, the Company and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or oral forward-looking statements including statements contained in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its reports to shareholders which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believes”, “contemplates”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “could”, “should”, “would” or “anticipates” or the negative thereof or comparable terminology. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which such statements are made and involve risk and uncertainties that exist in the Company’s operations and business environment and are not guarantees of future performance. The Company assumes no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events. Readers are cautioned to consider the following important risk factors that could affect the Company’s businesses and cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. GENERAL New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all of such factors. Further, management cannot assess the impact of each such factor on the business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. AEROSPACE & ELECTRONICS A significant fall off in demand for air travel or a decline in airline profitability generally could result in reduced aircraft orders and could also cause the airlines to scale back on more of their purchases of repair parts from the Company’s businesses. The businesses could also be impacted if major aircraft manufacturers, such as Boeing (which represented approximately 13% and 11% of the segment’s revenue in 2006 and 2005, respectively) encountered production problems, or if pricing pressure from aircraft customers caused the manufacturers to press their suppliers to lower prices. Sales and profits could face erosion if pricing pressure from competitors increased, if planned new products were delayed, if finding new aerospace-qualified suppliers grew more difficult, or if required technical personnel became harder to hire and retain. The Aerospace & Electronics segment results could be below expectations if the economy slows, which could cause the U.S. customers to delay or cancel spare parts or aircraft orders. A portion of this segment’s business is conducted under United States government contracts and subcontracts. These contracts are either competitively bid or sole source contracts. Competitively bid contracts are awarded after a formal bid and proposal competition among suppliers. Sole source contracts are awarded when a single contractor is deemed to have an expertise or technology that is superior to that of competing contractors. A reduction in Congressional appropriations that affect defense spending or the ability of the United States government to terminate its contracts could impact the performance of this business. ENGINEERED MATERIALS In the Engineered Materials segment, sales and profits could fall if there were a decline in demand for truck trailers, recreational vehicles (“RVs”), industrial or building products for which the Company’s businesses produce fiberglass-reinforced panels. The Company experienced a sharp decline in RV orders about midway through the third quarter of 2006 as the RV industry sharply curtailed production in response to a fall-off in demand from their customers. The industry generally attributes this downturn to higher gas prices and interest rates and an inventory reduction on dealer lots. While the short term is uncertain, in the longer term the demographic fundamentals continue to be positive for the growth of RV sales. Profits could also be adversely affected by unanticipated increases in resin and fiberglass material costs, by the loss of a principal supplier or by any inability on the part of the businesses to maintain their product cost and functionality advantages when compared to competing materials. The Company is defending two separate lawsuits brought by customers alleging failure of the Company’s fiberglass-reinforced plastic material in RV sidewalls manufactured by such customers. The aggregate damages sought in these two lawsuits is approximately $25 million, covering primarily the cost of repairing and replacing the affected sidewalls. These lawsuits are in early stages of pre-trial discovery, and the Company believes that it has valid defenses to the claims raised in these lawsuits. The Company has given notice of these lawsuits to its insurance carriers and will seek coverage for any liability in accordance with the applicable policies. The Company is also defending a series of five separate lawsuits, which have now been consolidated, revolving around a fire that occurred in May, 2003 at a chicken processing plant located near Atlanta, Georgia that destroyed the plant. The aggregate damages demanded by the plaintiff are in excess of $50 million. These lawsuits contend that certain fiberglass-reinforced plastic material manufactured by the Company that was installed inside the plant was unsafe in that it acted as an accelerant, causing the fire to spread rapidly, resulting in the total loss of the plant and property. The suits are in the early stages of pre-trial discovery and the Company believes that it has valid defenses to the underlying claims raised in these lawsuits. The Company has given notice of these lawsuits to its insurance carriers, and will seek coverage for any resulting losses. Based on a review of its coverage, however, the Company has determined that it is facing a potential $25 million gap in insurance coverage, for the layer of insurance which would have provided protection for losses above $25 million but below $50 million. The Company has initiated certain actions aimed at closing the gap in insurance coverage. If the plaintiffs in these lawsuits were to prevail at trial and be awarded the full extent of their claimed damages, and the gap in coverage was not closed, the 10 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1B resulting liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows in the periods affected. MERCHANDISING SYSTEMS Results at the Company’s U.S.-based vending machine business could be reduced by unfavorable economic or market conditions, delays in launching or supplying new products or an inability to achieve new product sales objectives. Results at the Company’s German-based coin validation machine business have been and will continue to be affected by unforeseen fluctuations in the value of the euro or other European currencies versus the U.S. dollar. The Company made four acquisitions in its Merchandising Systems segment in 2006, two of which are in vending machine manufacturing and two of which manufacture payment systems. The results of this segment could be adversely affected if unexpected problems are experienced in the integration of these businesses. In addition, one of the acquired vending machine manufacturers is currently experiencing operating losses, and the Company anticipates that it will take a number of months to implement the necessary changes to business practices of the acquired company in order to return it to profitability. FLUID HANDLING The Company’s businesses could face increased price competition from larger competitors. Slowing of the economy or major markets could reduce sales and profits, particularly if projects for which these businesses are suppliers or bidders are cancelled or delayed. Furthermore, as the Company continues to outsource from international sources, particularly low-cost countries, the risk of supply chain issues increases. At the Company’s foreign operations, reported results in U.S. dollars could be eroded by an unanticipated weakening of the local currency of the respective operations. The Company has been engaged in discussions with attorneys from the Civil Division of the U.S. Justice Department regarding allegations that certain valves sold by the Company’s Crane Valves North America unit (“CVNA”) to private customers that ultimately were delivered to U.S. military agencies did not conform to certain contractual specifications relating to the place of manufacture and the origin of component parts. These discussions relate to: (i) the alleged failure by CVNA to notify the correct U.S. military agency when its manufacturing location for Mil-Spec valves listed on the Qualified Products List was moved from Long Beach, California to Conroe, Texas in 2003, and (ii) the alleged delivery of Mil-Spec valves with certain component parts containing specialty steel that was not melted or produced in the United States or a qualifying country as required by federal law (the so-called “Berry Amendment”). The allegations do not question the quality of the valves or the component parts, nor is any intentional misconduct alleged. The Company believes that CVNA satisfied its notice obligations regarding the relocation of its manufacturing facility, and its investigation of the alleged Berry Amendment violation has revealed that the component value of the relevant parts contained within Mil-Spec valves sold by CVNA within the past five years was approximately $635,000. The Justice Department has stated to the Company that CVNA’s alleged noncompliance with these contract terms represents a violation of the civil False Claims Act, that the potential measure of damages could be the invoice price of the valves rather than the component cost of noncompliant parts and that under the False Claims Act such damages may be trebled. The Justice Department has asserted that the potential damages on this basis could exceed $29 million. The Company disputes this position, which to the Company’s knowledge would be an unprecedented application of the False Claims Act, and the Company maintains that these are contract administration issues, not false claims. While the Company has been engaged in discussions with the Justice Department in an effort to resolve the matter, the Justice Department has indicated that it intends to pursue recovery through the courts. If the Justice Department were to prevail with its theories of liability and damages, the resulting judgment could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows in the periods affected. The Company received a letter from the Department of the Navy on February 14, 2007, conveying the Department’s concerns about the alleged “Qualified Products List” violation that has been under discussion with the Department of Justice (referenced above). The Department of the Navy has advised the Company that if this allegation is true, it could potentially result in the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates being suspended and/or debarred from doing business with the U.S. Government. The Company intends to respond timely to the Department’s letter, and to cooperate fully with the Department in an effort to address the Department’s concerns. The Company believes that when the Department of the Navy has concluded its examination of the factual record, the Company’s position will be confirmed. CONTROLS A number of factors could affect the Controls segment’s results. Lower sales and earnings could result if the Control’s businesses cannot maintain their cost competitiveness, encounter delays in introducing new products or fail to achieve their new product sales objectives. Results could decline because of an unanticipated decline in demand for the businesses’ products from the industrial machinery, oil and gas or heavy equipment industries, or from unforeseen product obsolescence. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 11 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 2 