Item 1A. Risk Factors. (continued) Engineered Materials In the Engineered Materials segment, sales and profits could fall if there were a decline in demand for truck trailers, recreational vehicles, industrial or building products for which the Company’s businesses produce fiberglass-reinforced panels. Profits could be adversely affected as well by unanticipated increases in resin and fiberglass material costs or product warranty awards as well as the loss of a principal supplier and by any inability on the part of the businesses to maintain their position in product cost and functionality against competing materials. Merchandising Systems Results at the Company’s U.S.-based vending machine business could be reduced by unfavorable economic or market conditions, delays in launching or supplying new products or an inability to achieve new product sales objectives. Results at the Company’s German-based coin validation machine business have been and will continue to be affected by changes in demand stemming from the advent of the euro, the new European currency, as well as by unforeseen fluctuations in the value of the euro or other European currencies versus the U.S. dollar. Fluid Handling The Company’s businesses could face increased price competition from larger competitors. Slowing of the economy or major markets could reduce sales and profits, particularly if projects for which these businesses are suppliers or bidders are cancelled or delayed. Furthermore, as the Company continues to outsource from international sources, particularly low-cost countries, the risk of supply chain issues increases. At the Company’s foreign operations, reported results in U.S. dollar terms could be eroded by an unanticipated weakening of currency of the respective operations. Controls A number of factors could affect the Controls segment’s results. Lower sales and earnings could result if the Company’s businesses cannot maintain their cost competitiveness, encounter delays in introducing new products or fail to achieve their new product sales objectives. Results could decline because of an unanticipated decline in demand for the businesses’ products from the industrial machinery, oil and gas or heavy equipment industries, or from unforeseen product obsolescence. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 