Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following is a description of what we consider the key challenges and risks confronting our business. This discussion should be considered in conjunction with the discussion under the caption “Forward-Looking Information” preceding Part I, and with the discussion of the business included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” These risks comprise the material risks of which we are aware; however, these risks and uncertainties may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may adversely affect our business or financial performance. If any of the events or developments described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any documents that we subsequently file publicly were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to numerous lawsuits for asbestos-related personal injury, and costs associated with these lawsuits may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. We are subject to numerous lawsuits for asbestos-related personal injury. Estimation of our ultimate exposure for asbestos-related claims is subject to significant uncertainties, as there are multiple variables that can affect the timing, severity and quantity of claims. Our estimate of the future expense of these claims is derived from assumptions with respect to future claims, settlement and defense costs which are based on experience during the last few years and which may not prove reliable as predictors. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, depending on the nature of the alleged injury, the jurisdiction where filed and the quality of the product identification, or a significant upward or downward trend in the costs of defending claims, could change the estimated liability, as would any substantial adverse verdict at trial or on appeal. A legislative solution or a revised structured settlement transaction could also change the estimated liability. These uncertainties may result in our incurring future charges or increases to income to adjust the carrying value of recorded liabilities and assets, particularly if the number of claims and settlements and defense costs escalates or if legislation or another alternative solution is implemented; however, we are currently unable to predict such future events. The resolution of these claims may take many years, and the effect on results of operations, cash flow and financial position in any given period from a revision to these estimates could be material. As of December 31, 2007, we were one of a number of defendants in cases involving approximately 81,000 pending claims filed in various state and federal courts that allege injury or death as a result of exposure to asbestos. See Note 10 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on: • Our pending claims; • Our historical settlement and defense costs for asbestos claims; • The liability we have recorded in our financial statements for pending and reasonably anticipated asbestos claims through 2017; • The asset we have recorded in our financial statements related to our estimated insurance coverage for asbestos claims; and • Uncertainties related to our net asbestos liability. We have recorded a liability for pending and reasonably anticipated asbestos claims through 2017, and while it is probable that we will incur additional liabilities for asbestos claims after 2017, which additional liabilities may be significant, we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of such additional liabilities at this time. In the third quarter 2007, we updated and extended the estimate of our asbestos liability and recorded an additional pre-tax provision of approximately $390 million, which includes a corresponding insurance receivable. Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and reputation. Certain of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in substantial compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For example, during the 2007 fourth quarter, we recorded a $19 million charge related to an increase in our expected liability at our Goodyear, Arizona Superfund site. Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and reputation. Primarily in our Aerospace & Electronics and Fluid Handling segments, we are required to comply with various export control laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies, and in other circumstances we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts, including requirements related to procurement integrity, export control, employment practices, the accuracy of records and the recording of costs. A failure to comply with these requirements might result in suspension of these contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting. In addition, failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability export products and services, and damage to our reputation. For example, in the 2007 third quarter, we recorded a $7.6 million charge related to a civil false claims proceeding by the U.S. Government. See the Civil False Claims Settlement section under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 11 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A Demand for our products is uncertain and subject to factors beyond our control, which could result in unanticipated events significantly impacting our results of operations. A substantial portion of our sales is concentrated in industries that are cyclical in nature or subject to market conditions which may cause customers’ demand for our products to be volatile. These industries often are subject to fluctuations in domestic and international economies as well as to currency fluctuations and unforeseen inflationary pressures. Reductions in the business levels of these industries would reduce the sales and profitability of the affected business segments. In our Aerospace & Electronics segment, for example, a significant decline in demand for air travel, or a decline in airline profitability generally, could result in reduced orders for aircraft and could also cause airlines to reduce their purchases of repair parts from our businesses. Our aerospace businesses could also be impacted if major aircraft manufacturers, such as Boeing (which represented approximately 13% of the segment’s revenue in 2007) encountered production problems, or if pricing pressure from aircraft customers caused the manufacturers to press their suppliers to lower prices. In our Engineered Materials segment, sales and profits could fall if there were a decline in demand for truck trailers, recreational vehicles, or industrial or building products. Results in our Controls segment could decline because of an unanticipated decline in demand for the businesses’ products from the oil and gas or heavy truck markets, or from unforeseen product obsolescence. Results at our Merchandising Systems business have been and will continue to be affected by employment levels, office occupancy rates and factors affecting vending operator profitability such as fuel, confection and borrowing costs. We may be unable to successfully develop and introduce new products, which would limit our ability to grow and maintain our competitive position and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our growth depends, in part, on continued sales of existing products, as well as the successful development and introduction of new products, which face the uncertainty of customer acceptance and reaction from competitors. In our Aerospace & Electronics segment, for example, if we are unable to successfully develop, fund and deliver new products for major programs such as the Boeing 787 and the Airbus A400M, our operating results would be adversely impacted. Also, any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in our not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position. Further, the development and introduction of new products may require us to make investments in specialized personnel and capital expenditures, increase marketing efforts and reallocate resources away from other uses. We also may need to modify our systems and strategy in light of new products that we develop. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products in a cost-effective manner or otherwise manage effectively the operations related to new products, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The prices of our raw materials may increase, which may adversely affect our profitability. The costs of certain raw materials that are critical to our profitability are volatile. This volatility can have a significant impact on our profitability. In our Engineered Materials segment, for example, profits could be adversely affected by unanticipated increases in resin and fiberglass material costs and by inability on the part of the businesses to maintain their position in product cost and functionality against competing materials. The costs in our Fluid Handling and Merchandising Systems segments similarly are affected by fluctuations in the price of metals such as steel. While we have taken initiatives aimed at securing an adequate supply of raw materials at prices which are favorable to us, if the prices of critical raw materials increase, our operating costs could be negatively affected. Our ability to obtain parts and raw materials from our suppliers is uncertain, and any disruptions or delays in our supply chain could negatively affect our results of operations. Our operations require significant amounts of important parts and raw materials. We are engaged in a continuous, company-wide effort to concentrate our purchases of parts and raw materials on fewer suppliers, and to obtain parts from suppliers in low-cost countries where possible. As this effort progresses, we are exposed to an increased risk of disruptions to our supply chain, which could have a significant effect on our operating results. In addition, if we are unable to procure these parts or raw materials, our operations may be disrupted, or we could experience a delay or halt in certain of our manufacturing operations. We may be unable to identify or to complete acquisitions, or to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. We have evaluated, and expect to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions. Our acquisition program attempts to address the potential risks inherent in assessing the value, strengths, weaknesses, contingent or other liabilities, systems of internal controls and potential profitability of acquisition candidates, as well as other challenges such as retaining the employees and integrating the operations of the businesses we acquire. Integrating acquired operations involves significant risks and uncertainties, including: • Maintenance of uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures; • Distraction of management’s attention from normal business operations during the integration process; • Expenses associated with the integration efforts; and • Unidentified issues not discovered in the due diligence process, including legal contingencies. There can be no assurance that suitable acquisition opportunities will be available in the future, that we will continue to acquire businesses or that any business acquired will be integrated successfully or prove profitable, which could adversely impact our growth rate. Our ability to achieve our growth goals depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings. In addition, changes in accounting or regulatory requirements could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. 12 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1A We face significant competition which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position in the future. While we are a principal competitor in most of our markets, all of our markets are highly competitive. Our competitors in many of our business segments can be expected in the future to improve technologies, reduce costs and develop and introduce new products, and the ability of our business segments to achieve similar advances will be important to our competitive positions. Competitive pressures, including those discussed above, could cause one or more of our business segments to lose market share or could result in significant price erosion, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the United States and face risks inherent in non-domestic operations. Net sales and assets related to our operations outside the United States were 37.8% and 33.3% in 2007, and 37.0% and 31.4% in 2006, respectively, of our consolidated amounts. These operations and transactions are subject to the risks associated with conducting business internationally, including the risks of currency fluctuations, slower payment of invoices, adverse trade regulations and possible social, economic and political instability in the countries and regions in which we operate. We are dependent on key personnel, and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or hire and retain additional personnel needed for us to sustain and grow our business as planned. Certain of our business segments and corporate offices are dependent upon highly qualified personnel, and we generally are dependent upon the continued efforts of key management employees. We may have difficulty retaining such personnel or locating and hiring additional qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, many of whom are not party to employment agreements with us, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms could impair our ability to successfully sustain and grow our business, which could impact our results of operations in a materially adverse manner. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of December 31, 2007, in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. We believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price. Specific Risks Relating to Our Business Segments Aerospace & Electronics A significant decrease in demand for air travel or a decline in airline profitability generally could result in reduced aircraft orders and could also cause the airlines to scale back on more of their purchases of repair parts from our businesses. Our businesses could also be impacted if major aircraft manufacturers, such as Boeing (which represented approximately 13% of the segment’s revenue in 2007 and 2006), encounter production problems, or if pricing pressure from aircraft customers causes the manufacturers to press their suppliers to lower prices. Sales and profits could face erosion if pricing pressure from the competitors increased, if planned new products were delayed, if finding new aerospace-qualified suppliers grew more difficult, or if required technical personnel became harder to hire and retain. Our Aerospace & Electronics segment results could be below expectations if the U.S. economy slows, which could cause customers to delay or cancel spare parts or aircraft orders. A portion of this segment’s business is conducted under U.S. government contracts and subcontracts. These contracts are either competitively bid or sole source contracts. Competitively bid contracts are awarded after a formal bid and proposal competition among suppliers. Sole source contracts are awarded when a single contractor is deemed to have an expertise or technology that is superior to that of competing contractors. A reduction in Congressional appropriations that affect defense spending or the ability of the U.S. government to terminate our contracts could impact the performance of this business. Engineered Materials In our Engineered Materials segment, sales and profits could fall if there were a decline in demand for truck trailers, recreational vehicles (“RVs”), industrial or building products for which our businesses produce fiberglass-reinforced panels. We experienced a sharp decline in RV orders about midway through the third quarter of 2006 as the RV industry sharply curtailed production in response to a fall-off in demand from their customers. This unfavorable trend continued through 2007. The industry generally attributes this downturn to higher gas prices and interest rates and an inventory reduction on dealer lots. While the short term is uncertain, in the longer term the demographic fundamentals continue to be positive for the growth of RV sales. Profits could also be adversely affected by unanticipated increases in resin and fiberglass material costs, by the loss of a principal supplier or by any inability on the part of the businesses to maintain their product cost and functionality advantages when compared to competing materials. We are defending two separate lawsuits brought by customers alleging failure of our fiberglass-reinforced plastic material in RV sidewalls manufactured by such customers. The aggregate damages sought in these two lawsuits are approximately $13 million in direct costs allegedly incurred by the plaintiffs, as well as other consequential losses allegedly suffered. One of these lawsuits is currently in trial, and is expected to conclude by the end of February 2008. The other is nearing completion of fact and expert discovery and a trial on that lawsuit is expected to take place in late 2008. We continue to believe that we have valid defenses to the claims raised in both of these lawsuits. We have given notice of these lawsuits to our insurance carriers and will seek coverage for any liability in accordance with the applicable policies. 13 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 1B We are also defending a series of five separate lawsuits, which have now been consolidated, revolving around a fire that occurred in May, 2003 at a chicken processing plant located near Atlanta, Georgia that destroyed the plant. The aggregate damages demanded by the plaintiff are in excess of $50 million. These lawsuits contend that certain fiberglass-reinforced plastic material manufactured by us that was installed inside the plant was unsafe in that it acted as an accelerant, causing the fire to spread rapidly, resulting in the total loss of the plant and property. The suits are in the early stages of pre-trial discovery and we believe that we have valid defenses to the underlying claims raised in these lawsuits. We have given notice of these lawsuits to our insurance carriers, and will seek coverage for any resulting losses. Based on our review of coverage, however, we have determined that we are facing a potential $25 million gap in insurance coverage, for the layer of insurance which would have provided protection for losses above $25 million but below $50 million. We have initiated certain actions aimed at closing the gap in insurance coverage. If the plaintiffs in these lawsuits were to prevail at trial and be awarded the full extent of their claimed damages, and the gap in coverage was not closed, the resulting liability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in the periods affected. Merchandising Systems Results at our businesses could be reduced by unfavorable economic conditions, including inflation and continued increases in fuel costs, delays in launching or supplying new products or an inability to achieve new product sales objectives, as well unfavorable changes in gaming regulations. Results at our foreign locations have been and will continue to be affected by fluctuations in the value of the Euro, other European currencies and the Canadian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. We made four acquisitions in our Merchandising Systems segment in 2006, two of which are in vending machine manufacturing and two of which manufacture payment systems. The results of this segment could be adversely affected if unexpected problems are experienced in the integration of these businesses. In addition, one of the acquired vending machine manufacturers is currently experiencing operating losses, and we anticipate that it will take a number of months to implement the necessary changes to business practices of the acquired company in order to return it to profitability. Fluid Handling Our businesses could face increased price competition from larger competitors. Slowing of the economy or major markets could reduce sales and profits, particularly if projects for which these businesses are suppliers or bidders are cancelled or delayed. Furthermore, as we continue to outsource from international sources, particularly China and other low-cost countries, the risk of supply chain issues increases. At our foreign operations, reported results in U.S. dollar terms could be eroded by an unanticipated weakening of currency of the respective operations. Controls A number of factors could affect our Controls segment’s results. Lower sales and earnings could result if our businesses cannot maintain their cost competitiveness, encounter delays in introducing new products or fail to achieve their new product sales objectives. Results could decline because of an unanticipated decline in demand for the businesses’ products from the industrial machinery, oil and gas or heavy equipment industries, or from unforeseen product obsolescence. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 14 Table of Contents PART I / ITEM 2 