ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC from time to time when evaluating our business and prospects. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition or results of operations.We depend on case volumes for a significant portion of our revenues. Case volumes are not subject to accurate forecasting, and a decline in case volumes may materially adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations.Because we depend on case volume for revenue streams, a reduction in case referrals for any reason may materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict case volumes for a number of reasons, including the following:6Table of Contents•changes in the degree to which property and casualty insurance carriers or self-insured entities outsource, or intend to outsource, their claims handling functions are generally not disclosed in advance;•we cannot predict the length or timing of any insurance cycle, described below;•changes in the overall employment levels and associated workplace injury rates in the U.S. could impact the number of total claims;•the frequency and severity of weather-related, natural, and man-made disasters, which are a significant source of cases for us, are generally not subject to accurate forecasting;•major insurance carriers, underwriters, and brokers could elect to expand their activities as administrators and adjusters, which would directly compete with our business; and•we may not desire to or be able to renew existing major contracts with clients.If our case volume referrals decline for any of the foregoing, or any other reason, our revenues may decline, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, we derived a material amount of our revenues from a limited number of clients. If we lose revenues from these clients and are not able to replace them, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we derived in excess of 10% of our consolidated revenues from the combination of our two previously disclosed special projects in the Legal Settlement Administration segment, the Deepwater Horizon class action settlement and the GCCF projects. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Legal Settlement Administration continued to derive a material amount of its revenues from the Deepwater Horizon class action settlement project. In addition, the segment received more than 10% of its revenues from another non-Gulf related class action settlement project. The revenues from each of these projects were less than 10% of our consolidated 2013 revenues. These projects continue to wind down. Although we expect to continue to earn revenues from these projects through 2014, we expect these revenues, and related operating earnings, to be at a reduced rate as compared to 2013. No assurances of timing of the project end dates and, therefore, continued revenues and operating earnings, can be provided. In addition, in each of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, our EMEA/AP segment derived a material amount of its revenue from a single customer, but this customer did not account for in excess of 10% of our consolidated revenues. The services provided to this customer vary on a country-by-country basis and are covered by the terms of multiple contractual arrangements which expire at various times in the future. In the event we are unable to replace revenues from these limited projects and customers upon the termination of the projects or contractual relationships with revenues from new projects and customers within these or other segments, as the case may be, our consolidated revenues and operating earnings would be materially reduced, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Legal Settlement Administration service revenues are project-based and can fluctuate significantly from period to period for various reasons, any of which can materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.Our Legal Settlement Administration service revenues are project-based and can fluctuate significantly from period to period. Revenues from this segment are in part dependent on product liability, bankruptcy and securities class action cases and settlements. Legislation or a change in market conditions could curtail, slow or limit growth of this part of our business. Tort reforms in the U.S., at either the national or state levels, could limit the number and size of future class action cases and settlements. Any slowdown in the referral of projects to the Legal Settlement Administration segment or the commencement of services under the projects in any period, if not replaced by new revenue sources in our other segments, could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.7Table of ContentsWe currently operate on multiple proprietary software platforms to support our service offerings and internal corporate systems. The failure or obsolescence of any of these platforms, if not remediated or replaced, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.We currently utilize multiple software platforms to support our service offerings. We believe certain of these software platforms distinguish our service offerings from our competitors. Development of such software platforms is highly competitive and failure of one or more of our software platforms to function properly, or the failure of these platforms to remain competitive, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.We may not be able to develop or acquire necessary IT resources to support and grow our business. Our failure to do this could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.We have made substantial investments in software and related technologies that are critical to the core operations of our business. These IT resources will require future maintenance and enhancements, potentially at substantial costs. Additionally, these IT resources may become obsolete in the future and require replacement, potentially at substantial costs. We may not be able to develop, acquire replacement resources or identify new technology resources necessary to support and grow our business. Any failure to do so, or to do so in a timely manner or at a cost considered reasonable by us, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.We currently, and from time to time in the future may, outsource a portion of our internal business functions to third-party providers. Outsourcing these functions has significant risks, and our failure to manage these risks successfully could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.We currently, and from time to time in the future may, outsource significant portions of our internal business functions to third-party providers. Third-party providers may not comply on a timely basis with all of our requirements, or may not provide us with an acceptable level of service. In addition, our reliance on third-party providers could have significant negative consequences, including significant disruptions in our operations and significantly increased costs to undertake our operations, either of which could damage our relationships with our customers. As a result of our outsourcing activities, it may also be more difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees for our business needs at any time. Our failure to successfully outsource any material portion of our business functions could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition.We recently implemented a number of improvements to remediate a previously identified material weakness identified in our corporate tax accounting function. We may be at risk for a future material weakness, particularly if these improvements do not continue to operate effectively, which could result in a number of negative consequences.As described in more detail in Item 9A., Controls and Procedures, in this Form 10-K and in certain of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, our management has recently taken certain measures to resolve a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, in our corporate tax accounting function. Although we have concluded that we have remediated this material weakness as of December 31, 2013, we will need to continue to monitor and evaluate the measures implemented to ensure that they are operating effectively and we may be at risk for a future material weakness, particularly if these new measures do not operate effectively. The existence of a material weakness could result in a number of negative consequences, including significant management time and attention, additional costs, future misstatements in our financial statements, our inability to timely meet financial statement reporting and filing obligations, a loss of confidence by investors in our reported financial information and a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. 8Table of ContentsControl by a principal shareholder could adversely affect our other shareholders.As of December 31, 2013, Jesse C. Crawford, a member of our Board of Directors, beneficially owned approximately 52% of our outstanding voting class B common stock. As a result, he has the ability to control substantially all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors. He also has the ability to control our management and affairs. As of December 31, 2013, Mr. Crawford also beneficially owned approximately 40% of our outstanding non-voting class A common stock. This concentration of ownership of our stock may delay or prevent a change in control; impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination involving us; discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us; reduce the liquidity, and thus the trading price of our stock; or result in other actions that may be opposed by, or not be in the best interests of, our other shareholders.We are subject to insurance underwriting market cycle risks. We may not be able to identify new revenue sources not directly tied to this cycle and, in that event, would remain subject to its risks.Although the insurance industry underwriting cycle has been characterized in recent years as soft, the property-casualty underwriting cycle remains volatile and could rapidly transition to a harder market due to certain factors such as the occurrence of significant catastrophic losses or the performance of capital markets. In softer insurance markets, insurance premiums and deductible levels are generally in decline and industry-wide claim volumes generally increase, which should increase claim referrals to us provided property and casualty insurance carriers do not reduce the number of claims they outsource to independent firms such as ours. Because the underwriting cycle can change suddenly due to unforeseen events in the financial markets and catastrophic claims activity, we cannot predict what impact the current market may have on us in the future or the timing of when the market may change in the future. Indicators of a hard insurance underwriting cycle generally include higher premiums, higher deductibles, lower liability limits, increased excluded coverages, increased reservation of rights letters, and more unpaid claims. During a hard insurance underwriting market, insurance companies typically become very selective in the risks they underwrite and insurance premiums and policy deductibles increase. This often results in a reduction in industry-wide claims volumes, which reduces claim referrals to us unless we can offset the decline in claim referrals with growth in our market share. We try to mitigate this risk exposure through the development and marketing of services that are not affected by the insurance underwriting cycle. However, there can be no assurance that our mitigation efforts will be effective with respect to eliminating or reducing underwriting market cycle risk. To the extent we cannot effectively minimize the risk through diversification, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted by, or during, future hard market cycles.We manage a large amount of highly sensitive and confidential consumer information including personally identifiable information, protected health information and financial information. The unauthorized access to, alteration or disclosure of this data, whether as a result of criminal conduct, advances in computer hacking or otherwise, could result in a material loss of business, substantial legal liability or significant harm to our reputation.We manage a large amount of highly sensitive and confidential consumer information including personally identifiable information, protected health information and financial information. We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. While we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, and although we maintain cyber and crime insurance, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage.9Table of ContentsA significant portion of our operations are international. These international operations face political, legal, operational, exchange rate and other risks not generally present in U.S. operations, which could materially negatively affect those operations or our business as a whole.Our international operations face political, legal, operational, exchange rate and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. We face, among other risks: the risk of discriminatory regulation; nationalization or expropriation of assets; changes in both domestic and foreign laws regarding trade and investment abroad; potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights; or price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they were earned or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. International operations also subject us to numerous additional laws and regulations affecting our business, such as those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, antitrust and competition, environmental protection, consumer protection, import/export and anti-corruption, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"). Although we have put into place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors, and agents could take actions that violate any of these requirements. Violations of these regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We operate in highly competitive markets and face intense competition from both established entities and new entrants into those markets. Our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect us.The claims management services market, both in the U.S. and internationally, is highly competitive and comprised of a large number of companies of varying size and that offer a varied scope of services. The demand from insurance companies and self-insured entities for services provided by independent claims service firms like us is largely dependent on industry-wide claims volumes, which are affected by, among other things, the insurance underwriting cycle, weather-related events, general economic activity, overall employment levels, and associated workplace injury rates. We are also impacted by decisions insurance companies and self-insured entities may make with respect to the level of claims outsourced to independent claim service firms as opposed to those handled by their own in-house claims adjusters. Accordingly, we are limited in our ability to predict case volumes in any period. Our ability to retain clients and maintain and increase case referrals is also dependent in part on our ability to continue to provide high-quality, competitively priced services and effective sales efforts. In addition, the goodwill and intangible assets in each of our segments are exposed to potential impairment if we are unable to effectively compete or our financial results are otherwise materially negatively impacted. In particular, we believe our indefinite-lived intangible asset consisting of the Broadspire trade name, with a carrying value of $29.1 million, our SLS trade name with a value of $2.0 million, and the $42.0 million of goodwill in the Americas segment, are most exposed to potential impairments.We may not be able to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel, including retaining a sufficient number of on-call claims adjusters, to respond to catastrophic events that may, singularly or in combination, significantly increase our clients’ needs for adjusters.Our catastrophe related work and revenues can fluctuate dramatically based on the frequency and severity of natural and man-made disasters. When such events happen, our clients usually require a sudden and substantial increase in the need for catastrophic claims services, which can place strains on our capacity. Our internal resources are sometimes not sufficient to meet these sudden and substantial increases in demand. When these situations occur, we must retain outside adjusters (temporary employees and contractors) to increase our capacity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain such outside adjusters with the requisite qualifications, at the times needed or on terms that we believe are economically reasonable. Insurance companies and other loss adjusting firms also aggressively compete for these independent adjusters, who often command high prices for their services at such times of peak demand. Such competition could reduce availability, increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Our failure to timely, efficiently, and competently provide these services to our clients could result in reduced revenues, loss of customer goodwill and a materially negative impact on our results of operations.10Table of ContentsIf we do not protect our proprietary information and technology resources and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our proprietary information, intellectual property, and technology, our financial results could be harmed.We rely on a combination of trademark, trade name, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary information, intellectual property, and technology. However, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Third parties may copy aspects of our processes, products or materials, or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization. Unauthorized copying or use of our intellectual property or proprietary information could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently, including by designing around any of our proprietary technology. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our intellectual property in those countries. Any legal action that we may bring to protect intellectual property and proprietary information could be expensive and may distract management from day-to-day operations. We are, and may become, party to lawsuits or other claims that could adversely impact our business.In the normal course of the claims administration services business, we are named as a defendant in suits by insureds or claimants contesting decisions by us or our clients with respect to the settlement of claims. Additionally, our clients have periodically brought actions for indemnification on the basis of alleged negligence on our part or on the part of our agents or our employees in rendering service to clients. There can be no assurance that additional lawsuits will not be filed against us. There also can be no assurance that any such lawsuits will not have a disruptive impact upon the operation of our business, that the defense of the lawsuits will not consume the time and attention of our senior management and financial resources or that the resolution of any such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plan (the "U.S. Qualified Plan") and certain of our U.K. defined benefit pension plans (the "U.K. Plans") are underfunded. Future funding requirements, including those imposed by any further regulatory changes, could restrict cash available for our operating, financing, and investing requirements.At the end of the most recent measurement periods for our U.S. Qualified Plan, the U.K Plans, and our other international defined benefit pension plans,the projected benefit obligations for these specific plans were underfunded by $103.0 million. Pension funding rules under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 , as amended by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, the Preservation of Access to Care for Medicare Beneficiaries and Pension Relief Act of 2010, and the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, require us to make substantial contributions to our frozen U.S. Qualified Plan. Failure to meet the funding requirements could result in the imposition of fines, penalties or plan disqualification. In addition, regulatory requirements in the U.K. require us to make additional contributions to our underfunded U.K. Plans. Volatility in the capital markets may also have a further negative impact on our U.S. and U.K. pension plans, which may further increase the underfunded portion of our pension plans and our attendant funding obligations. The required contributions to our underfunded defined benefit pension plans will reduce our liquidity, restrict available cash for our operating, financing, and investing needs and may materially adversely affect our financial condition. During 2013 we made contributions of $18.0 million and $6.5 million to our U.S. Qualified Plan and U.K. Plans, respectively. In 2012, we made contributions of $13.5 million and $6.6 million to our U.S. Qualified Plan and U.K. Plans, respectively.While we intend to comply with our future funding requirements through the use of cash from operations, there can be no assurance that we will generate enough cash to do so. Our inability to fund these obligations through cash from operations could require us to seek funding from other sources, including through additional borrowings under our Credit Facility (defined below), if available, or proceeds from debt or equity offerings. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such external funding in amounts, at times and on terms that we deem commercially reasonable, in order for us to meet these obligations. Furthermore, any of the foregoing could materially increase our outstanding debt or debt service requirements, or dilute the value of the holdings of our current shareholders, as the case may be. Our inability to comply with any funding obligations in a timely manner could materially adversely affect our financial condition.11Table of ContentsWe have debt covenants in our credit facility that require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios and other requirements. If we are not able to maintain compliance with these requirements, all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable.We are party to a credit facility, dated December 8, 2011, with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., RBS Citizens, N.A., and the other lenders a party thereto, as amended (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility contains various representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting liens, indebtedness, guarantees, mergers and consolidations, substantial asset sales, investments and loans, sale and leasebacks, restrictions on dividends and distributions, and other fundamental changes in our business. Additionally, the Credit Facility contains covenants requiring us to remain in compliance with a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. If we do not maintain compliance with the covenant requirements, we will be in default under the Credit Facility. In such an event, the lenders under the Credit Facility would generally have the right to declare all then-outstanding amounts thereunder immediately due and payable. If we could not obtain a required waiver on satisfactory terms, we could be required to renegotiate the terms of the Credit Facility or immediately repay this indebtedness. Any such renegotiation could result in less favorable terms, including additional fees, higher interest rates and accelerated payments, and would necessitate significant time and attention of management, which could divert their focus from business operations. Any required payment may necessitate the sale of assets or other uses of resources that we do not believe would be our best interests. While we do not presently expect to be in violation of any of these requirements, no assurances can be given that we will be able to continue to comply with them in the future. There can be no assurance that our actual financial results will match our projected results or that we will not violate such covenants. Any failure to continue to comply with such requirements could materially adversely affect our borrowing ability and access to liquidity, and thus our overall financial condition, as well as our ability to operate our business.The risks described above are not the only ones facing us, but are the ones currently deemed the most material by us based on available information. New risks may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can we assess the impact of known risks on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None.