ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this report on Form 10-K when considering an investment decision with respect to our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. 9 In our U.S. operations, we have experienced declines in the volume of cases referred to us for many of our service lines associated with the property and casualty insurance industry. We are unable to predict the future of this trend due to the following factors: - Changes in the degree to which property and casualty insurance carriers outsource their claims handling functions. The majority of property and casualty insurance companies maintain their own staffs of salaried adjusters, with field adjusters located in those areas in which the volume of claims justifies maintaining a salaried staff. An insurance company's decision to retain an independent adjusting firm and the selection of a particular firm typically depends on a number of factors, including geographic location, complexity of the underlying claim, the firm's reputation and financial strength, and the in-house capacity of the insurance company. These companies utilize independent adjusters to service claims when the volume of claims exceeds the capacity of their staffs, when claims arise in areas not serviced by staff adjusters, and when claims require specialized knowledge to handle. The U.S. insurance industry generally uses internal adjusting personnel to make automobile and smaller property damage claims adjustments by telephone and may assign the limited function of appraising physical damage to outside adjusting companies, such as us. We believe that such limited assignments from automobile and property insurers may continue, reflecting a perception by insurance companies that they can reduce adjusting expenses in amounts greater than the higher losses associated with telephone adjusting. In certain instances, however, insurers have attempted to reduce the fixed cost of their claims departments by increasing outside assignments to independent firms such as ours. - Changes in the overall employment levels and associated workplace injury rates in the U.S. U.S. employment in manufacturing-related occupations continues to decline. Most of the recent growth in U.S. employment levels has been in service-related occupations. Typically, service-related occupations have lower levels of workplace injury rates than those associated with manufacturing. - The growth of alternative risk programs and the use of independent third party administrators such as us, as opposed to administrators affiliated with brokers or insurance carriers. During hard insurance markets, as have generally been experienced since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, corporate risk management personnel have become more aware of alternative methods of financing losses (alternative risk programs), creating a trend toward higher retention levels of risk insurance or implementation of self-insurance programs by large corporations and governmental entities which give us certain opportunities in the self-insured market. These alternative risk programs generally utilize an insurance company which writes specialized policies that permit each client to select its own level of risk retention, and may permit certain risk management services to be provided to the client by service companies independent of the insurance company or 10 broker. In addition to providing full claims administration services for such clients, we generally provide statistical data such as loss experience analysis. The services are usually the subject of a contractual agreement with the specialty insurance company or the self-insured client that specifies the claims to be administered by us and the fee to be paid for our services (generally a fixed rate per assignment within the various risk classifications). These alternative risk programs are sensitive to changes in premiums charged for full coverage insurance. However, during soft insurance markets, alternative risk programs tend to be less attractive to potential clients and are replaced by full traditional insurance and, accordingly, reduce the number of alternative risk programs in which we can participate. - Occurrences of weather-related, natural, and man-made disasters. The volume of property claim assignments referred to us fluctuates in part depending on the occurrence of severe weather and environmental disasters. We try to mitigate this risk through the geographic spread of our operations and through the development and marketing of services which are not affected by weather-related events. - Major insurance carriers, underwriters, and brokers could elect to expand their activities as third party administrators and adjusters, which would directly compete with our business. - The renewal of existing major contracts with clients and our ability to obtain such renewals and new contracts on satisfactory financial terms, including the creditworthiness of clients Class action services revenues are project based and can fluctuate significantly. Growth in these revenues is in part dependent on the continued growth in product liability and securities class action settlements. Legislation or a change in market conditions could curtail or limit growth of this part of our business. Tort reforms in the U.S., both at the national and state levels, could limit the number and size of future class-action settlements. We may not be able to identify new revenue sources not directly tied to the insurance underwriting cycle. During a hard insurance underwriting market, insurance companies become very selective in the risks they underwrite and insurance premiums and policy deductibles increase. This results in a reduction in industry-wide claims volumes, which reduces claim referrals to us unless we can offset the decline in claim referrals with growth in our market share. In softer insurance markets, (where insurance premium and deductible levels are generally in decline, as were experienced during the 1990's), industry-wide claim volumes generally increase, which should increase claim referrals to us. We are subject to this insurance underwriting market risk and try to mitigate this risk through the development and marketing of services which are not affected by the insurance underwriting cycle, such as those related to class action services. We may not be able to develop or acquire information technology resources to support and grow 11 our business. We have made substantial investments in software and related technologies that are critical to the core operations of our business. These information technology resources will require future maintenance and enhancements, potentially at substantial costs. Additionally, these information technology resources may become obsolete in the future and require replacement, potentially at substantial costs. We may not be able to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel, including retaining a sufficient number of on-call claims adjusters to respond to catastrophic events that may, singularly or in combination, significantly increase our clients' needs for adjusters. Our catastrophe revenues can fluctuate dramatically based on natural and man-made disasters. When such events happen, our clients usually require a sudden and substantial increase in the need for catastrophe adjusting services, which can place strains on the capacity of our catastrophe adjusters. Our internal resources are sometimes not sufficient to meet these sudden and substantial increases in demand. When these situations occur, we must retain outside adjusters (contractors and temporary employees) to increase our capacity. Insurance companies and other loss adjusting firms also aggressively compete for these independent adjusters, who often command high prices for their services at such times of peak demand. Our U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans are significantly under funded. Future funding requirements, including those imposed by potential regulatory changes, could restrict cash available for our operating, financing and investing requirements. We are aware of proposed U.S. legislation that may impact the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") as they relate to defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. Our frozen U.S. defined benefit pension plan is regulated by both the PBGC and ERISA. We understand that this proposed legislation, if enacted, could significantly alter future pension funding requirements and actuarial formulas used by sponsors of defined benefit pension plans that are regulated by the PBGC and ERISA. Our U.S. defined benefit plan, could be impacted by any such future legislation. This proposed legislation has not been finalized or enacted into law, but could result in the need for additional cash payments by us into our U.S. defined benefit pension plan. Our U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans are significantly under funded based on current long-term interest rates used to discount the pension liabilities and future required contributions to these plans could be substantial. Further declines in long-term interest rates could significantly increase future required contributions to these plans. We have debt covenants that require us to maintain defined leverage ratios, fixed charge ratios, and minimum net worth thresholds. We may not be able to maintain compliance with these debt covenant requirements. These debt covenant requirements also have restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 12 We were in compliance with these debt covenants as of December 31, 2005. If we do not meet the covenant requirements in the future, we would be in default under these agreements. In such an event, we would need to obtain a waiver of the default or repay the outstanding indebtedness under the agreements. If we could not obtain a waiver on satisfactory terms, we could be required to renegotiate this indebtedness. Any such renegotiations could result in less favorable terms, including higher interest rates and accelerated payments. Based upon our projected operating results for 2006, we expect to remain in compliance with these debt covenants. However, there can be no assurance that our actual financial results will match our planned results or that we will not violate the covenants. The outcome of the items under "ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS" below. The risks included above are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report may include additional factors which could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, our operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of known risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Analysts' Reports Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from time to time by the Registrant in this report, other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements. Forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified, without limitation, by the use of such words as "anticipates", "estimates", "expects", "intends", "plans", "predicts", "projects", "believes", "could", "would", "should", "may", "goal", "strategy", or "will", or words or phrases of similar meaning. The Registrant undertakes no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revisions to forward-looking statements or to identify any new risk factors which may arise. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual future results. Investors should also be aware that while the Registrant does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against the Registrant's policy to disclose to them any material, non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that the Registrant agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, the Registrant has a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that the reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts, or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Registrant. 13 Forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. In addition to other risk factors and matters discussed elsewhere herein, some of the important general factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include the following: - - Changes in general economic conditions in the Registrant's major geographic markets, which include the U. S., U. K., and Canada, as well as, to a lesser extent, the other areas throughout the world in which the Registrant does business; - - General risks associated with doing business outside the U.S., including without limitation, restrictions on foreign-owned or controlled entities conducting loss adjusting activities in those jurisdictions, exchange rate fluctuations, expropriation of assets, and currency restrictions; - - Changes in accounting principles or application of such principles to the Registrant's business; - - Changes in regulatory requirements in the various jurisdictions where the Registrant operates; - - Changes in law, particularly as related to tort reform and changes in the states' workers' compensation laws; and - - Any other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and any other publicly filed report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 