ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this report on Form 10-K when considering an investment decision with respect to our securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such an instance, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. We have experienced declines in the volume of cases referred to us for many of our service lines associated with the property and casualty and self-insurance insurance industry. We are unable to predict the future of this trend due to the following factors: • changes in the degree to which property and casualty insurance carriers outsource their claims handling functions; • changes in the overall employment levels and associated workplace injury rates in the U.S.; • the growth of alternative risk programs and the use of independent third party administrators such as us, as opposed to administrators affiliated with brokers or insurance carriers; • occurrences of weather-related, natural, and man-made disasters; • major insurance carriers, underwriters, and brokers could elect to expand their activities as third party administrators and adjusters, which would directly compete with our business; and • the renewal of existing major contracts with clients and our ability to obtain such renewals and new contracts on satisfactory financial terms, including the creditworthiness of clients. We have debt covenants that require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and a minimum consolidated net worth. We may not be able to maintain compliance with these debt covenant requirements. These debt covenant requirements also have requirements that restrict our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. 10 Table of Contents On October 31, 2006, we entered into a Credit Agreement by and among us, Crawford & Company International, Inc., the lenders party thereto and SunTrust Bank, as Issuing Bank and Administrative Agent for the Lenders, as amended on March 2, 2007, July 5, 2007 and December 21, 2007, which we refer to herein as the “Credit Agreement.” The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting liens, indebtedness, guaranties, mergers and consolidations, substantial asset sales, investments and loans, sale and leasebacks, restrictions on dividends and distributions, and other fundamental changes. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains covenants to the effect that we will maintain a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated net worth. We were in compliance with these debt covenants, as amended, as of December 31, 2007. The covenants become more restrictive in the future and if we do not meet the covenant requirements , we would be in default under these agreements. In such an event, we would need to obtain a waiver of the default or repay the outstanding indebtedness under the agreements. If we could not obtain a waiver on satisfactory terms, we could be required to renegotiate this indebtedness. Any such renegotiations could result in less favorable terms, including higher interest rates and accelerated payments. Based upon our projected operating results for 2008, we expect to remain in compliance with these debt covenants. However, there can be no assurance that our actual financial results will match our planned results or that we will not violate the covenants. We may be obligated to make earnout payments related to our acquisitions. Some business acquisitions are structured to include earnout payments, which are contingent upon the acquired entity reaching certain revenue and operating earnings targets. The amount of the contingent payments and length of the earnout period varies for each acquisition, and the ultimate payments when made will vary, as they are dependent on future events. Based on 2007 levels of revenues and operating earnings, additional payments under existing earnout agreements approximate $7.5 million through 2010, as follows: 2008 - $780,191; 2009 - $5,792,636; and 2010 - $910,197. We face potential limitations on our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders. Our Board of Directors makes dividend decisions each quarter based in part on an assessment of current and projected earnings and cash flows. Our ability to pay future dividends could be impacted by many factors including the funding requirements for our defined benefit pension plans, repayments of outstanding borrowings, future levels of cash generated by our operating activities, and restrictions related to the covenants contained in our Credit Agreement. The covenants in our Credit Agreement limit dividend payments to shareholders to $12.5 million in any 12-month period and permit dividends only if certain leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios are met. Once these ratios are met, the payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. 11 Table of Contents Legal Settlement Administration service revenues are project-based and can fluctuate significantly. Our Legal Settlement Administration service revenues are project-based and can fluctuate significantly from period to period. Growth in these revenues is in part dependent on the growth in product liability, bankruptcy and securities class action settlements. Legislation or a change in market conditions could curtail or limit growth of this part of our business. Tort reforms in the U.S., both at the national and state levels, could limit the number and size of future class action settlements. We may not be able to identify new revenue sources not directly tied to the insurance underwriting cycle. The insurance industry may go through a hard market cycle in the future. Indicators of a hard insurance underwriting cycle include higher premiums, lower liability limits, excluded coverages, reservation of rights letters and unpaid claims. During a hard insurance underwriting market, insurance companies become very selective in the risks they underwrite and insurance premiums and policy deductibles increase. This results in a reduction in industry-wide claims volumes, which reduces claim referrals to us unless we can offset the decline in claim referrals with growth in our market share. In softer insurance markets, where insurance premium and deductible levels are generally in decline, as is currently being experienced, industry-wide claim volumes generally increase, which should increase claim referrals to us provided property and casualty insurance carriers do not reduce the number of claims they outsource to independent firms such as ours. Although we are currently experiencing a soft insurance market, claim volumes remain low and carriers have reduced the number of claims they outsource to independent firms such as ours. We are subject to this insurance underwriting market risk and try to mitigate this risk through the development and marketing of services which are not affected by the insurance underwriting cycle, such as those related to class action and warranty services. We may not be able to develop or acquire information technology resources to support and grow our business. We have made substantial investments in software and related technologies that are critical to the core operations of our business. These information technology resources will require future maintenance and enhancements, potentially at substantial costs. Additionally, these information technology resources may become obsolete in the future and require replacement, potentially at substantial costs. We may not be able to develop or acquire replacement resources or to identify and acquire new technology resources to support and grow our business. The Broadspire segment currently operates on multiple claim platforms. In January 2007, a project was initiated to consolidate the multiple claim platforms into RiskTech, our proprietary claim platform. The registrant’s Broadspire segment currently utilizes five claims adjudication platforms for collection of client data. These platforms will be consolidated into the RiskTech platform. Operational efficiencies, including reduction of costs of maintaining multiple claim platforms, depend upon integration of all claim platforms into RiskTech. Consolidation of the claim platforms is anticipated to continue through 2008; however the Registrant cannot guarantee that it will attain all scheduled integration goals. Failure to achieve targeted integration dates may adversely affect our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel, including retaining a sufficient number of on-call claims adjusters to respond to catastrophic events that may, singularly or in combination, significantly increase our clients’ needs for adjusters. Our catastrophe revenues can fluctuate dramatically based on natural and man-made disasters. When such events happen, our clients usually require a sudden and substantial increase in the need for catastrophe adjusting services, which can place strains on the capacity of our catastrophe adjusters. Our internal resources are sometimes not sufficient to meet these sudden and substantial increases in demand. When these situations occur, we must retain outside adjusters (contractors and temporary employees) to increase our capacity. Insurance companies and other loss adjusting firms also aggressively compete for these independent adjusters, who often command high prices for their services at such times of peak demand. We are party to lawsuits that could adversely impact our business. In the normal course of the claims administration services business, we are named as a defendant in suits by insureds or claimants contesting decisions by us or our clients with respect to the settlement of claims. Additionally, our clients have brought actions for indemnification on the basis of alleged negligence on our part or on the part of our agents or our employees in rendering service to clients. We currently are party to other litigation. There can be no assurance that additional lawsuits will not be filed against us. There also can be no assurance that these lawsuits will not have a disruptive effect upon the operations of our business, that the defense of the lawsuits will not consume the time and attention of our senior management or that the resolution of this litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. and United Kingdom (“U.K.”) defined benefit pension plans are significantly under funded. Future funding requirements, including those imposed by recent and potential regulatory changes, could restrict cash available for our operating, financing and investing requirements. At the end of the most recent measurement periods for our defined benefit pension plans, our projected benefit obligations were underfunded by $80,769,000. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“the Act”) will require us to make substantial contributions to our frozen U.S. defined benefit pension plan over the next seven years in order for us to meet the “Funding Target Liability” as defined in the Act. In addition, regulatory requirements in the U.K. require us to make additional contributions to our underfunded U.K. defined benefit pension plans. Required contributions to our underfunded defined benefit pension plans may restrict available cash for our operating, financing, and investing needs. 13 Table of Contents Inaccurate estimates or assumptions used in our annual impairment tests could lead to adverse effects on our results of operations. We may be required to take an impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets. We are required by applicable accounting standards to perform annual impairment tests of our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. The fair values calculated in our annual impairment tests are determined using discounted cash flow models involving several assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, anticipated growth rates by segments, operating margins and the discount rate. The results of our 2007 annual impairment test indicates that the fair value of each segment exceeds their carrying amounts by 11.4% to 74.8%. If, in the future, the estimated fair value of any segment was to fall below its carrying amount, we would need to record a noncash impairment charge for the goodwill, which would adversely affect our results of operations. For additional information about our goodwill and intangible assets, refer to Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are subject to potential challenges relating to overtime pay and other regulations that affect our relationship with our employees, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign employment laws, and from time to time we face claims by our employees and former employees under such laws. In addition, the number of cases involving alleged violations of wage and hour laws has recently increased. The outcome of these cases is highly fact specific and there has been a substantial amount of legislative and judicial activity pertaining to employment-related issues. We were notified in January 2008 that a former employee filed a lawsuit in California alleging, among other things, unpaid overtime. The former employee is asking that the lawsuit be granted class action status for all similarly situated employees. We intend to defend ourselves. At the present time, we cannot assess the probability of an unfavorable verdict nor can we assess the potential damages in the event of an unfavorable verdict. In addition, we cannot assure anyone that claims under such laws or other employment-related laws will not be attempted in the future against us, nor can we predict the likely impact of any such claims. We are currently aware of allegations made by certain employees that we are in violation of wage and hour laws in certain jurisdictions. We do not know if these allegations will result in litigation and cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation. Such claims or litigation involving our current or former employees could divert our management’s time and attention from our business operations and could potentially result in substantial costs of defense, settlement or other disposition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. The risks included above are not exhaustive. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of known risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. 14 Table of Contents Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains and incorporates by reference forward-looking statements within the meaning of that term in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “1995 Act”). Statements contained in this report that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions of the 1995 Act. These statements are included throughout this report, and in the documents incorporated by reference in this report, and relate to, among other things, projections of revenues, earnings, earnings per share, cash flows, capital expenditures, working capital or other financial items, output, expectations, or trends in revenues or expenses. These statements also relate to our business strategy, goals and expectations concerning our market position, future operations, margins, case volumes, profitability, contingencies, debt covenants, liquidity, and capital resources. The words “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “would”, “should”, “estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “goal”, “strategy”, “predict”, “project”, “will” and similar terms and phrases identify forward-looking statements in this report and in the documents incorporated by reference in this report. Additional written and oral forward-looking statements may be made by us from time to time in information provided to the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases, our website, or otherwise. Although we believe the assumptions upon which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and the forward-looking statements based on these assumptions could be incorrect. Our operations and the forward-looking statements related to our operations involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control, and any one of which, or a combination of which, could materially affect our results of operations and whether the forward-looking statements ultimately prove to be correct. Included among, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties we face are declines in the volume of cases referred to us for many of our service lines associated with the property and casualty insurance industry, global economic conditions, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, regulations and practices of various governmental authorities, the competitive environment, the financial conditions of our clients, the performance of sublessors under certain subleases related to our leased properties, regulatory changes related to funding of defined benefit pension plans, the fact that our U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans are significantly underfunded, changes in the degree to which property and casualty insurance carriers outsource their claims handling functions, changes in overall employment levels and associated workplace injury rates in the U.S., the ability to identify new revenue sources not tied to the insurance underwriting cycle, the ability to develop or acquire information technology resources to support and grow our business, the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, renewal of existing major contracts with clients on satisfactory financial terms, general risks associated with doing business outside the U.S., our ability to comply with debt covenants, possible legislation or changes in market conditions that may curtail or limit growth in product liability and securities class actions, and man-made disasters and natural disasters. Therefore you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. 15 Table of Contents Actual results and trends in the future may differ materially from those suggested or implied by the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we undertake no obligation to publicly update any of these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. All future written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on behalf of the Company are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements made herein. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 