ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC from time to time when evaluating our business and prospects. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If they do, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our financial condition or results of operations. We have experienced declines in the volume of cases referred to us for many of our service lines and are unable to determine future trends in case volumes. We depend on case volumes for our revenues, and a continued decline will result in a reduction of revenue. We have experienced declines in the volume of cases referred to us for many of our service lines associated with the property and casualty and self-insurance insurance industry. Because we depend on case volume for revenue streams, future reductions may adversely impact our results of operation and financial condition. We are unable to predict the future of this trend for a number of reasons, including the following: • changes in the degree to which property and casualty insurance carriers outsource, or intend to outsource, their claims handling functions are generally not disclosed in advance; • the occurrence and length of a “hard” insurance cycle, described below; • changes in the overall employment levels and associated workplace injury rates in the U.S. could impact the number of total claims; • the growth of alternative risk programs and changes in the level of use of independent third party administrators such as us, as opposed to in-house programs or administrators affiliated with brokers or insurance carriers; 12 Table of Contents • the frequency and severity of weather-related, natural, and man-made disasters, which are a significant source of claims for us, are generally not subject to accurate forecasting; • major insurance carriers, underwriters, and brokers could elect to expand their activities as administrators and adjusters, which would directly compete with our business; and • we may not desire to or be able to renew existing major contracts with clients for any reason. If our case volume referrals further decline for any of the foregoing, or any other reason, our revenues would decline, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our U.S. and United Kingdom (“U.K.”) defined benefit pension plans are significantly underfunded. Future funding requirements, including those imposed by recent and potential regulatory changes, could restrict cash available for our operating, financing and investing requirements. At the end of the most recent measurement periods for our defined benefit pension plans, our projected benefit obligations were underfunded by $216.3 million. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “Act”) (as amended by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008) will require us to make substantial contributions to our frozen U.S. defined benefit pension plan over the next eight years in order for us to meet the “Funding Target Liability” as defined in the Act. In addition, regulatory requirements in the U.K. require us to make additional contributions to our underfunded U.K. defined benefit pension plans. Continued volatility in the capital markets may also have a further negative impact on our U.S. and U.K. pension funds, which may further increase the underfunded portion of our pension plans and our attendant funding obligations. The required contributions to our underfunded defined benefit pension plans will reduce our liquidity, restrict available cash for our operating, financing, and investing needs and may materially adversely effect our financial condition. While we intend to comply with our funding requirements through the use of cash from operations, there can be no assurance that we will generate enough cash to do so. Our inability to fund these obligations through cash from operations could require us to seek funding from other sources, including through borrowings under our Credit Agreement, if available, or proceeds from any debt or equity offerings. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any such external funding in amounts, at times and on terms that we deem commercially reasonable, in order for us to meet these obligations. Furthermore, any of the foregoing could materially increase our outstanding debt or debt service requirements, or dilute the value of the holdings of our current shareholders, as the case may be. Our inability to comply with any funding obligations in a timely manner could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Continued effects from the recent global financial crisis, including economic uncertainty, could further negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent global financial crisis has affected, among other things, the banking system, financial markets, general economic development, employment levels and, to a lesser extent, some of our insurance company clients. The effects of this crisis have significantly impacted our business, including resulting in reduced claims volumes and revenues. There could be a number of other follow-on effects from the financial crisis on our business, including: insolvency of key clients; the inability of our clients to obtain credit to pay us for the services that we render; counterparty failures negatively impacting our and our clients’ treasury operations; increased expense or inability to obtain financing for our operations; and requirements for us to further materially increase the periodic expense and the funding obligations under our various defined benefit pension plans. We cannot predict the further extent to which any of the foregoing may impact our business, results of operations or financial condition, although it may be material. 13 Table of Contents We have debt covenants in our Credit Agreement that require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios and other requirements. If we are not able to maintain compliance with these requirements, all of our outstanding debt could become immediately due and payable. We are party to a Credit Agreement, along with Crawford & Company International, Inc., the lenders party thereto and SunTrust Bank, as Issuing Bank and Administrative Agent for the Lenders (the “Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting liens, indebtedness, guaranties, mergers and consolidations, substantial asset sales, investments and loans, sale and leasebacks, restrictions on dividends and distributions, and other fundamental changes. Additionally, the Credit Agreement contains covenants requiring us to remain in compliance with a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and a minimum consolidated net worth. The covenants become more restrictive in the future and, if we do not maintain compliance with the covenant requirements, we will be in default under the Credit Agreement. In such an event, the lenders under the Credit Agreement would generally have the right to declare all then-outstanding amounts thereunder immediately due and payable. If we could not obtain a required waiver on satisfactory terms, we could be required to renegotiate the terms of the Credit Agreement or immediately repay this indebtedness. Any such renegotiation could result in less favorable terms, including additional fees, higher interest rates and accelerated payments, and would necessitate significant time and attention of management, which could divert their focus from business operations. While we do not presently expect to be in violation of any of these requirements, no assurances can be given that we will be able to continue to comply with the increasingly restrictive nature thereof. There can be no assurance that our actual financial results will match our projected results or that we will not violate such covenants. Any failure to continue to comply with such requirements could materially adversely affect our borrowing ability and access to liquidity, and thus our overall financial condition. We are subject to potential challenges relating to overtime pay and other regulations that could affect our relationship with our employees, and which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign employment laws, and from time to time we face, and expect to continue to face, claims by our employees and former employees under such laws. In addition, we have become aware that a number of employers are becoming subject to an increasing number of claims involving alleged violations of wage and hour laws. The outcome of these allegations is expected to be highly fact specific, and there has been a substantial amount of recent legislative and judicial activity pertaining to employment-related issues. We do not know which, or how many, of these allegations will result in litigation and we cannot predict the outcome of any such litigation. Such claims or litigation involving us and any of our current or former employees could divert our management’s time and attention from our business operations and could potentially result in substantial costs of defense, settlement or other disposition, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. The Broadspire segment currently operates on multiple claims platforms. We have begun to consolidate the multiple claims platforms into RiskTech, our proprietary claims platform. While we expect to benefit from certain cost savings and other synergies from migrating to this proprietary platform, no assurances can be provided we will achieve any such benefits. Our Broadspire segment currently utilizes multiple claims adjudication platforms for collection of client data. Broadspire began the process of consolidating these platforms into the RiskTech platform in November 2008. The achievement of operational efficiencies, including reduced costs of maintaining multiple claims platforms, depends upon the successful integration of all claims platforms into RiskTech. The first phase of the consolidation was completed in August 2009. Consolidation of the claims platforms is anticipated to continue through 2011; however, the Registrant cannot guarantee that it will complete the scheduled integration on time, or that, once completed, the integrated platform will provide the expected benefits. Failure to achieve targeted integration goals or the scheduled timeline may adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to identify new revenue sources not directly tied to the insurance underwriting cycle and therefore may be subject to underwriting cycle market risk. The insurance industry has in the past, and may in the future go through a hard market cycle. Indicators of a hard insurance underwriting cycle generally include higher premiums, higher deductibles, lower liability limits, excluded coverages, reservation of rights letters and unpaid claims. During a hard insurance underwriting market, insurance companies typically become very selective in the risks they underwrite and insurance premiums and policy deductibles increase. This often results in a reduction in industry-wide claims volumes, which reduces claim referrals to us unless we can offset the decline in claim referrals with growth in our market share. In softer insurance markets, when insurance premium and deductible levels are generally in decline, industry-wide claim volumes generally increase, which should increase claim referrals to us provided property and casualty insurance carriers do not reduce the number of claims they outsource to independent firms such as ours. We are subject to this insurance underwriting market risk and try to mitigate this risk through the development and marketing of services that are not affected by the insurance underwriting cycle, such as those related to class action and warranty services. However, there can be no assurance that our mitigating efforts will be effective with respect to eliminating or reducing underwriting market risk. To the extent we cannot effectively minimize the risk through diversification, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted in future hard market cycles. We may not be able to develop or acquire necessary I.T. resources to support and grow our business. Our failure to do this could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have made substantial investments in software and related technologies that are critical to the core operations of our business. These I.T. resources will require future maintenance and enhancements, potentially at substantial costs. Additionally, these I.T. resources may become obsolete in the future and require replacement, potentially at substantial costs. We may not be able to develop or acquire replacement resources or to identify and acquire new technology resources necessary to support and grow our business. Any failure to do so, or to do so in a timely manner or at a cost considered reasonable by us, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our businesses are international. These international operations face political, legal, operational, exchange rate and other risks not generally present in U.S. operations, and which could negatively affect those operations or our business as a whole. Our international operations face political, legal, operational, exchange rate and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, changes in both domestic and foreign laws regarding trade and investment abroad, potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Foreign operations also subject us to numerous additional laws and regulations affecting our business, such as those related to labor, employment, worker health and safety, antitrust and competition, environmental protection, consumer protection, import/export and anticorruption, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The FCPA prohibits giving anything of value intended to influence government officials. Although we have put into place policies and procedures aimed at ensuring legal and regulatory compliance, our employees, subcontractors and agents could take actions that violate any of these requirements. Violations of these regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We operate in highly competitive markets and face intense competition from both established entities and new entrants into those markets. Our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect us. The claims services markets, both in the U.S. and internationally, are highly competitive and are comprised of a large number of companies of varying size and offering a varying scope of services. These include large insurance companies and insurance brokerage firms which, in addition to their primary services of insurance underwriting or insurance brokerage, also provide services such as claims administration, healthcare and disability management, and risk management information systems. Many of these companies are larger than us in terms of annual revenues and total assets, and may be more able to devote significant resources to advertising, marketing and price competition. In addition, we also compete with a great number of smaller local and regional claims management services firms located throughout the U.S. and internationally. Many of these smaller firms have rate structures that are generally lower than ours, or may, in certain markets, have local knowledge that provides them with a competitive advantage. There are also national independent companies that provide a similar broad spectrum of claims management services and who directly compete with us. In addition, we have recently encountered increased pricing pressures from both our clients and competitors, and we expect this trend to continue. In the event we are not able to successfully compete in the markets in which we operate, we could experience an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We may not be able to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel, including retaining a sufficient number of on-call claims adjusters, to respond to catastrophic events that may, singularly or in combination, significantly increase our clients’ needs for adjusters. Our catastrophe revenues can fluctuate dramatically based on the frequency and severity of natural and man-made disasters. When such events happen, our clients usually require a sudden and substantial increase in the need for catastrophic claims services, which can place strains on the capacity of our catastrophe adjusters. Our internal resources are sometimes not sufficient to meet these sudden and substantial increases in demand. When these situations occur, we must retain outside adjusters (temporary employees and contractors) to increase our capacity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain such outside adjusters with the requisite qualifications, at the times needed or on terms that we believe are economically reasonable. Insurance companies and other loss adjusting firms also aggressively compete for these independent adjusters, who often command high prices for their services at such times of peak demand. Such competition could reduce availability, increase our costs and reduce our revenues. Our failure to timely, efficiently and competently provide these services to our clients could result in reduced revenues, loss of customer goodwill and a negative impact on our results of operations. Legal Settlement Administration service revenues are project-based and can fluctuate significantly from period to period for any number of reasons, any of which can materially impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our Legal Settlement Administration service revenues are project-based and can fluctuate significantly from period to period. Revenues from this segment are in part dependent on product liability, bankruptcy and securities class action cases and settlements. Legislation or a change in market conditions could curtail, slow or limit growth of this part of our business. Tort reforms in the U.S., both at the national and state levels, could limit the number and size of future class action cases and settlements. Any slowdown in the referral of projects to the Legal Settlement Administration segment or the commencement of services under the projects in any period could materially adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We face restrictions and limitations on our ability to, and have not recently paid, cash dividends to our shareholders, which could materially impact the market for, and price of, our common stock. In considering the purchase of common stock, many investors consider the dividend-paying nature of the issuer thereof. We have not, since August 2006, paid dividends on either class of our common stock. The covenants in our Credit Agreement significantly limit our ability to make any dividend payments to shareholders and permit dividends only if certain ratios are met. In addition, if permitted, our Board of 16 Table of Contents Directors makes dividend decisions based in part on an assessment of current and projected earnings and cash flows. The decision and ability to pay dividends is also impacted by many other factors, including the expected funding requirements for our defined benefit pension plans, future repayments of outstanding borrowings and future levels of cash generated by our operating activities. The significant contractual restrictions, and other matters, which have resulted in the Company not having paid dividends on its outstanding common stock in recent history could reduce the overall market demand for such stock, leading to a reduced price thereof. If we do not protect our proprietary information and technology resources and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. We rely on a combination of procedures and patent, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary information. However, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Third parties may copy aspects of our processes, products or materials, or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently, including by designing around any of our proprietary technology. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. Any legal action that we may bring to protect proprietary information could be expensive and may distract management from day-to-day operations. Unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could materially adversely affect us. We are party to lawsuits that could adversely impact our business. In the normal course of the claims administration services business, we are named as a defendant in suits by insureds or claimants contesting decisions by us or our clients with respect to the settlement of claims. Additionally, our clients have periodically brought actions for indemnification on the basis of alleged negligence on our part or on the part of our agents or our employees in rendering service to clients. There can be no assurance that additional lawsuits will not be filed against us. There also can be no assurance that any such lawsuits will not have a disruptive impact upon the operation of our business, that the defense of the lawsuits will not consume the time and attention of our senior management and financial resources or that the resolution of any such litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Registrant’s International Operations segment derives a significant portion of its revenue from a single customer. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse effect on the results of the International Operations segment. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our International Operations segment derived in excess of ten, but less than fifteen, percent of its revenue from a single customer. The services provided to this customer vary on a country-by-country basis, and are covered by the terms of various contractual arrangements. Should this customer elect to cease its business relationship with us entirely, such event could have a material adverse effect on the results of the International Operations segment. The risks described above are not the only ones facing the Company, but are the ones currently deemed the most material by us based on available information. New risks may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risks, nor can we assess the impact of known risks on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following are the names, positions held, and ages of each of the executive officers of the Registrant: Name Office Age J. T. Bowman President and Chief Executive Officer 56 W. B. Swain Executive Vice President — Chief Financial Officer 46 A. W. Nelson Executive Vice President — General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Administrative Officer 45 K. B. Frawley Executive Vice President; Chief Executive Officer — Americas 58 D. A. Isaac Executive Vice President; Chief Executive Officer, The Garden City Group, Inc. 45 K. F. Martino Executive Vice President; Chief Executive Officer & President, Broadspire Services, Inc. 51 I. V. Muress Executive Vice President; Chief Executive Officer — EMEA/A-P 52 G. T. Gibson Executive Vice President — Global Strategy, Projects and Development 57 M. F. Reeves Executive Vice President — Global Markets 57 P. G. Porter Senior Vice President 59 B. S. Flynn Senior Vice President 50 P. R. Austin Senior Vice President 50 R. J. Cormican Senior Vice President 62 Mr. Bowman was appointed to his present position with the Registrant on January 1, 2008. From January 1, 2006 to December 31, 2007 he was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer — Global Property and Casualty of the Registrant, and was in charge of the Registrant’s U.S. Property & Casualty and International Operations segments. From April 1, 2001 to December 31, 2005 he was President of Crawford & Company International, Inc. managing the Registrant’s international operations. Mr. Swain was appointed to his present position with the Registrant on October 6, 2006 and from May 2, 2006 acted as interim Chief Financial Officer. Prior to that and from January 1, 2000 he was Senior Vice President and Controller of the Registrant. Mr. Nelson was appointed to his present position with the Registrant on January 7, 2008. From October 17, 2005 through January 6, 2008 he was Executive Vice President — General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Registrant. Prior to that and from October 1997 he served in various positions with BellSouth Corporation, a telecommunications company, most recently as Chief Compliance Counsel. In that capacity he was in charge of all legal compliance issues facing BellSouth domestically and internationally. Mr. Frawley was appointed to his present position as CEO — Americas in charge of the Registrant’s U.S. Property & Casualty segment and certain international operations in all the Americas effective January 7, 2008. Prior to that and from February 23, 2005 when he joined the Registrant, he was responsible for the Legal Settlement Administration segment of the Registrant’s business. Prior to joining the Registrant and since 1996 he was Chief Compliance Officer — Insurance Division for Prudential Financial, Inc. which, through its subsidiaries, provides various financial products and services. 18 Table of Contents Mr. Isaac was appointed to his current position with GCG, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Registrant in October 2006. Prior to that and from February 2000 he was President of GCG. Mr. Martino was appointed to his present position as CEO & President, Broadspire Services, Inc. effective December 29, 2008. Prior to that and from November 27, 2007, when he joined the Registrant, he was President of Broadspire Services, Inc., responsible for operations. Prior to joining the Registrant and since February 1999, he was employed by Specialty Risk Services, a claims administration and risk management services provider, where he served as Senior Vice President, chief financial officer and Senior Vice President — account management. Mr. Muress was appointed to his present position as CEO — EMEA/Asia-Pacific, in charge of the Registrant’s European, Middle Eastern, African and Asia-Pacific operations effective January 7, 2008. Prior to that and from January 2006 he was CEO-EMEA and from August 2002, when he joined the Registrant’s U.K. subsidiary, until January 2006 he was CEO — UK & Ireland, in charge of the Registrant’s operations in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Mr. Gibson was appointed to his present position in charge of Global Strategy, Projects and Development effective January 7, 2008. Prior to that and from January 2006 he was Chief Executive Officer — The Americas, in charge of the international operations for the Registrant in the Americas outside of the United States. From January 2000 to January 2006 he was Chief Executive Officer — Canada in charge of the Registrant’s Canadian operations. Mr. Reeves was appointed to his present position in charge of Global Markets effective January 7, 2008. Prior to that and from November 1, 2004 he was Senior Vice President — Corporate Multinational Risks, responsible for the strategy, sales and account management of the Registrant’s relationship with the Fortune 1000 market. From November 1, 2002 to November 1, 2004 he was Senior Vice President — Technical Services (UK) responsible for the Registrant’s Technical Services business unit in the United Kingdom. Mr. Porter was appointed to his current position January 19, 2005 and was interim Senior Vice President — Claims Management from December 15, 2004. Prior to that and from May 1, 2001 he was Senior Vice President in charge of business development for Claims Management Services. Mr. Flynn was appointed to his present position in charge of the Registrant’s global information technology operation effective December 10, 2007. Prior to joining the Registrant and since May 2001 he was Senior Vice President-Technology of BCD Travel USA, LLC, a travel management company. Ms. Austin was appointed to her present position with the Registrant on April 24, 2006. Prior to joining the Registrant and since October 1998 she was Vice President-Human Resources of D. S. Waters of America LP, a bottled water distributor. Mr. Cormican was appointed to his present position February 15, 2005. Prior to joining the Registrant from August 2002 until February 2005 he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Assurance America Corporation, an insurance holding company. Officers of the Registrant are appointed by the Board of Directors. The Registrant has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for its CEO, CFO, principal accounting officer and all other officers, directors and employees of the Registrant. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the Registrant’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters, are available at www.crawfordandcompany.com. Any amendment or waiver of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics will be posted on this website within four business days after the effectiveness thereof. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics may also be obtained without charge by writing to Corporate Secretary, Legal Department, Crawford & Company, 1001 Summit Boulevard, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30319. 