ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. INVESTING IN OUR COMMON STOCK INVOLVES A HIGH DEGREE OF RISK. PROSPECTIVE INVESTORS SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED OR REFERRED TO IN THIS REPORT, BEFORE PURCHASING SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. THERE ARE NUMEROUS AND VARIED RISKS, KNOWN AND UNKNOWN, THAT MAY PREVENT US FROM ACHIEVING OUR GOALS. THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES WE WILL FACE. IF ANY OF THESE RISKS ACTUALLY OCCUR, OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATION MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. IN SUCH CASE, THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE AND INVESTORS IN OUR COMMON STOCK COULD LOSE ALL OR PART OF THEIR INVESTMENT. Risks Related to our Business and Our Industry We have a limited operating history and have losses which we expect to continue into the future. There is no assurance our future operations will result in profitable revenues. If we cannot generate sufficient revenues to operate profitably, we may suspend or cease operations. Our operating business was incorporated on April 2009 and we have a limited operating history. Through December 31, 2009, our net loss from inception is approximately $1,655,000. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability and positive cash flow is dependent, among other things, upon: • Development and launching of our network, • acceptance of our network by physicians who treat African-American patients, • our ability to attract advertisers who want to purchase advertising space on our programming, and • our ability to continue our strategic vendors. Based upon current plans, we expect to incur operating losses in future periods because we expect to incur expenses which will exceed revenues for an unknown period of time. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in generating sufficient revenues to support operations in the future. Failure to generate sufficient revenues will cause us to go out of business and you could lose your investment. Based on our historical financials (since inception on April 2, 2009), there is uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. In the event that we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability or are otherwise unable to secure external financing, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to Table of Contents our ability to continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our security holders losing their entire investment. Our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, contemplate that we will continue as a going concern and do not contain any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. Notwithstanding the foregoing, our cash flow deficiencies raise substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Also, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our expansion plans, lower than anticipated revenues, or increased expenses or other events will all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We anticipate incurring operating losses and negative cash flows in the foreseeable future resulting in uncertainty of future profitability and limitation on our operations. We anticipate that the Company will incur operating losses and negative cash flows in the foreseeable future, and will accumulate increasing deficits as we increase our expenditures for (i) infrastructure, (ii) sales and marketing, (iii) equipment, (iv) personnel, and (v) general operating expenses. Any increases in our operating expenses will require us to achieve significant revenue before we can attain profitability. In the event that we are unable to achieve profitability or raise sufficient funding to cover our losses, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We are dependent on outside financing for continuation of our operations. Because we have generated limited revenue and currently operate at a significant loss, we are completely dependent on the continued availability of financing in order to continue our business. There can be no assurance that financing sufficient to enable us to continue our operations will be available to us in the future. Our failure to obtain future financing or to produce levels of revenue to meet our financial needs could result in our inability to continue as a going concern and, as a result, investors in the Company could lose their entire investment. We will need additional capital to pursue our business plan and conduct our operations and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We will require significant additional capital resources from sources including equity and/or debt financings in order to develop products/services and continue operations. We intend to raise up to $5 million of such additional capital. Our current rate of expenditure is approximately $100,000 per month. However, this rate of expenditure is expected to increase to approximately $150,000 per month upon funding as a result of our anticipated need to hire additional employees and due to business expansion. If we raise such additional capital our existing stockholders will experience dilution. We will need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and any additional financing may be on terms adverse to your interests. We may need additional cash to fund our operations. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including market conditions and our profitability. We cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund expansion, successfully promote our brand name, develop or enhance our services, take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, any of which could seriously harm our business and reduce the value of your investment. If we are able to raise additional funds, if and when needed, by issuing additional equity securities, you may experience significant dilution of your ownership interest and holders of these new securities may have rights senior to yours as a holder of our Common Stock. If we obtain additional financing by issuing debt securities, the terms of those securities could restrict or prevent us from declaring dividends and could limit our flexibility in making business decisions. In this case, the value of your investment could be reduced. Table of Contents We will need to raise additional capital to fund sales and marketing and operating expenses and we intend to raise such additional capital, however, such capital may not be available or, if available, may not be on terms favorable to the Company or its stockholders. The successful commercialization of our network and any future products or services we develop will require additional capital which will not be generated by our current operations. We estimate that the amounts we have expended to date are nominal compared to the amounts that will be required to successfully market our network. Accordingly, we will be required to raise significant additional capital. Such additional capital may not be available or, if available, it may not be available on favorable terms. Additionally, future financings may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If we fail to obtain additional capital as and when required, our business will not succeed. We rely on strategic vendors to provide system integration, network management, and content creation and production. We rely on strategic vendors, including strategic vendors that are our principal shareholders, to provide system integration, network management, and content creation and production for our network. If we experience problems with any of our strategic vendors, the satisfaction of our subscribers and advertisers could suffer and our business could be adversely affected. If we experience difficulties in maintaining these relationships or developing new relationships on a timely basis and on terms favorable to us, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Because two of our strategic vendors are also majority shareholders who own an aggregate of approximately 52% of our outstanding Common Stock, and each has an executive who serves as a member of the Board of Directors, our vendors will control our operations. Seatac and Saddle Ranch are strategic vendors and each entity owns 26.02% of our Common Stock. Seatac’s and Saddle Ranch’s executives, Robin Tjon and Kimberly Sarubbi respectively, also serve as members of our Board of Directors. As a result of this ownership and representation on our Board of Directors, Ms. Tjon and Ms. Sarubbi will be able to elect all of our directors and entirely control our operations. If their decisions are incorrect, we could go out of business and you would lose your investment. Malfunctions of third party service providers could adversely affect our business which may impede our ability to attract and retain subscribers and advertisers. To the extent that the subscribers to our network suddenly increases, the services outsourced to our strategic vendors for system integration and network management will increase proportionally. System interruptions or increases in response time could result if our vendors are unable to keep up with our subscriber growth, and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the appeal of our networks to users and advertisers. Our success is tied to the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. Our future revenues and profits, if any, substantially depend upon the continued widespread use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication. Factors which could reduce the widespread use of the Internet include: • actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; • possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to the Internet servers or to users’ computers; and Table of Contents • excessive governmental regulation. We have no control over these factors and their effect on our business. Growth of internal operations and business may strain our financial resources. We will be significantly expanding the scope of our operating and financial systems in order to build and expand our business. Our growth rate may place a significant strain on our financial resources for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: The need for continued development of the financial and information management systems; The need to manage strategic relationships and agreements with subscribers; Difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled management, technical and other personnel necessary to support and manage our business; and We cannot give you any assurance that we will adequately address these risks and, if we do not, our ability to successfully expand our business could be adversely affected. Failure to manage growth effectively could prevent us from achieving our goals. Our strategy envisions a period of rapid growth that may impose a significant burden on our administrative and operational resources. Our ability to effectively manage growth will require us to substantially expand the capabilities of our administrative and operational resources and to attract, train, manage and retain qualified management and other personnel. Our failure to successfully manage growth could result in our sales not increasing commensurately with capital investments. Our inability to successfully manage growth could materially adversely affect our business. Any failure to adequately expand a direct sales force will impede our growth. We expect to be substantially dependent on a direct sales force to attract new advertising customers and to manage customer relationships. We plan to expand our direct sales force and believe that there is significant competition for qualified, productive direct sales personnel with advanced sales skills and technical knowledge. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient direct sales personnel. Recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as expected, and we may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. While there presently exists a high rate of unemployment, if we are unable to hire and develop sufficient numbers of productive sales personnel our business prospects could suffer. If our network does not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our network, including, among others: • the perception by users of the effectiveness of our services; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If our network does not gain acceptance by the number of doctor’s offices sufficient enough to attract advertisers, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development of new products and services, and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our current products and services, which inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Table of Contents We will need to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel to successfully grow our business. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified operations, marketing and sales personnel. Inability to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect the growth of our business. We expect to face competition in the recruitment of qualified personnel, and we can provide no assurance that we will attract or retain such personnel. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. We expect the laws, rules and regulations governing public companies to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Additionally, with the acquisition of America’s Minority Health Network and the termination of our status as a shell company, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. If we do not attract subscribers and advertisers to our network, we will not make a profit, which ultimately will result in a cessation of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract subscribers and advertisers to our network. If we are unsuccessful in attracting a sufficient number of subscribing physicians and a significant number of paying advertisers, our financial condition will be harmed. To date we do not have a sufficient number of subscribers or advertisers and we cannot guarantee that we will ever have any. Even if we obtain subscribers and advertisers, there is no guarantee that we will generate a profit. If we cannot generate a profit, we will have to suspend or cease operations. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. If we fail to comply with the rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act related to accounting controls and procedures or if material weaknesses or other deficiencies are discovered in our internal accounting procedures, our stock price could decline significantly. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures, and we may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and other deficiencies. If material weaknesses and deficiencies are detected, it could cause investors to lose confidence in our Company and result in a decline in our stock price and consequently affect our financial condition. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of Table of Contents the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our Common Stock could drop significantly. In addition, we cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Risks Related to our Common Stock FINRA sales practice requirements may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) has adopted rules that relate to the application of the SEC’s penny stock rules in trading our securities and require that a broker/dealer have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer, prior to recommending the investment. Prior to recommending speculative, low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker/dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative, low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker/dealers to recommend that their customers buy our Common Stock which may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity and liquidity of our Common Stock. Further, many brokers charge higher transactional fees for penny stock transactions. As a result, fewer broker/dealers may be willing to make a market in our Common Stock thereby reducing a shareholder’s ability to resell shares of our Common Stock. Because there is a limited public trading market for our Common Stock, you may not be able to resell your stock. There is currently a limited public trading market for our Common Stock and there is no assurance that a more active trading market will ever develop. As such, you may have to hold your shares for an extended period of time before you are able to sell them, if at all. Our Board of Directors may issue and fix the terms of shares of our Preferred Stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our Common Stock or any change in control of our company. Our articles of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock, with no par value per share (the “Preferred Stock”), with such designation rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. We have previously designated a Class A Preferred Stock however; we did not issue any shares of that class of securities. We previously designated a Class B Preferred Stock and issued shares which were subsequently re-purchased and canceled. Our Board of Directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue additional shares of Preferred Stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of our Common Stock. In the event of such issuances, the Preferred Stock could be used, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Our shares are considered “penny stocks” which imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers; as such many broker/dealers may not want to make a market in our shares which could affect your ability to sell your shares in the future. Our shares are considered “penny stocks” covered by section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rules 15g-1 through 15g-6 promulgated thereunder, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker/dealers who sell our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally Table of Contents institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouses). Since our shares are covered by section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, many broker/dealers may not want to make a market in our shares or conduct any transactions in our shares. As such, your ability to dispose of your shares may be adversely affected. Future sales by our stockholders may negatively affect our stock price and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Sales of our Common Stock in the public market could lower the market price of our Common Stock. Sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable or at all. Of the 15,790,210 shares of Common Stock outstanding after the Closing of the Transaction, 1,117,719 shares are freely tradable without restriction by stockholders who are not our affiliates and an additional 403,802 shares are covered under a registration rights agreement and owned by a non-affiliate. The remaining 14,268,689 shares of Common Stock are “restricted securities” with an aggregate of 12,324,320 shares held by our affiliates, all of which shares may be resold in the public market only if registered, pursuant to an exemption from registration, or pursuant to the applicable requirements of Rule 144. We do not expect to pay dividends and investors should not buy our Common Stock expecting to receive dividends. We do not anticipate that we will declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, you will only realize an economic gain on your investment in our Common Stock if the price appreciates. You should not purchase our Common Stock expecting to receive cash dividends. Since we do not pay dividends, and if we are not successful in establishing an orderly trading market for our shares, then you may not have any manner to liquidate or receive any payment on your investment. Therefore our failure to pay dividends may cause you to not see any return on your investment even if we are successful in our business operations. In addition, because we do not pay dividends we may have trouble raising additional funds which could affect our ability to expand our business operations. Securities analysts may not continue to cover our Common Stock and this may have a negative impact on our Common Stock’s market price. The trading market for our Common Stock may depend on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will cover our Common Stock. If securities analysts do not cover our Common Stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our Common Stock’s market price, if any. If we are covered by securities analysts who downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regularly reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We may seek to raise additional funds, finance acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing capital stock. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, acquisitions and develop strategic relationships, by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, which could significantly reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any newly issued securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stock. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of stock to decline. Table of Contents We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of the bankruptcy laws. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties We have sought to identify what we believe to be the most significant risks to our business, but we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, any of such risks may be realized nor can we guarantee that we have identified all possible risks that might arise. Investors should carefully consider all such risk factors before making an investment decision with respect to our Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 