Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following section describes certain of the more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our operations. The risks and uncertainties below are those that we currently consider material; however, this section does not intend to discuss all possible risks and uncertainties that a company like Cross with broad international operations could experience. We are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. Further, there could be other risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that may become more significant to us. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. We undertake no obligation to correct or update any forward-looking statements or statements of risk related thereto for any reason. 4 We depend on the success of new products. Our ability to sustain profitability and restore growth in sales depends largely on consumer acceptance of numerous new products recently introduced and planned for introduction. Further, consumer preferences are continuously changing. The markets in which we sell are highly competitive, and there is no assurance that consumer acceptance will be realized to the degree necessary to generate growth in our sales and earnings. Our global manufacturing, sales and distribution operations make us susceptible to the risks of overseas operations. We have sales offices and certain operations in eight countries and distributors worldwide. In 2006, approximately 47% of our revenue came from sales to locations outside the United States. Many of our products are now manufactured overseas. Operating internationally exposes us to changes in export controls and other laws or regulations, as well as the general political and economic conditions, security risks, health conditions and possible disruptions in transportation networks, of the various countries in which we operate, which could result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations in such countries. Incorrect forecasts of customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company manufactures product based on forecasts of customers' demands. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. If we inaccurately forecast customer demand by over or underestimating that demand, we may hold inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to retain and recruit a sufficient number of qualified employees in a competitive environment. Our success depends in part on our retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including technical, distribution, sourcing, marketing, sales, management and staff personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that we require. Our dependence on certain suppliers may leave us temporarily without adequate access to raw materials or products. To maintain the highest level of product quality, we rely on a limited number of domestic and foreign suppliers for certain raw materials, manufacturing technologies and certain finished products. We may be adversely affected in the event that these suppliers cease operations or if pricing terms become less favorable. We believe, but cannot guarantee, that we could obtain the raw materials currently supplied by these vendors from other sources and that we could either develop the manufacturing technologies internally or locate suitably similar technologies. If we are unable to replace a key supplier we may face delays in delivering finished products according to our customers' demands, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Overseas manufacturing makes us dependent upon the performance of our overseas partners. As a result of our manufacturing initiative, which is now largely completed, we manufacture a significant number of finished products in China. Our manufacturing operations in China are overseen and managed by a local manufacturing partner. Should that partner not perform as expected, or should the relationship between the parties deteriorate, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations. Despite our best efforts to maintain our strict quality standards, if the quality of our products is perceived to be affected by the initiative, our reputation may be harmed and we may lose future sales. We depend on certain accounts for a significant percentage of our sales. The Company is dependent on three large office supply accounts, Staples, Inc., OfficeMax, Inc. and Office Depot, Inc., for approximately 10% of its consolidated revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Further, there is no assurance that these accounts will maintain their current inventory levels. Unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation matters could prove costly to us. We are involved from time to time in litigation matters. An unfavorable resolution of pending litigation or future litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management regardless of the outcome. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve a favorable settlement of pending litigation or obtain a favorable resolution of litigation if it is not settled. In addition, current and future litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruptions of our normal business operations. 5 Extension of the Cross brand beyond writing instruments may fail. Because of the maturity of the fine writing instrument industry, our ability to achieve growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to extend the Cross brand beyond writing instruments. There is no assurance that consumers will accept the Cross brand outside of writing instruments, particularly business accessories and watches, at the level necessary to generate sustainable growth for us with these products, or that consumers will accept the design and price of these products. Because we have less institutional experience with product lines outside of writing instruments, and because the complementary product lines that we enter into, such as business accessories and watches, may be extremely competitive already, these brand extensions may not prove to be successful, adversely affecting future sales growth. Our effort to streamline operations may not generate the savings we anticipate. We expect to generate cash from our streamlining of operations, some of which will be invested in our sales and marketing programs and other initiatives to generate growth. A significant portion of these savings is contingent on our ability to keep costs in other areas of our operations at acceptable levels. If we are unable to realize the anticipated cost savings of this streamlining, our results of operations would suffer. The diversification of our business may not be successful. In order to generate growth outside of writing instruments, one of our strategic initiatives is to diversify outside of our core Cross branded product. Costa Del Mar was our first foray into this area of diversification. There can be no assurance that Costa Del Mar will continue to grow at its current levels or that we will find additional suitable targets for acquisition. If we do find a suitable acquisition target, we cannot assure that we will be able to consummate a deal on terms satisfactory to us or that we will be able to successfully integrate those operations into our company. We also cannot assure that such a strategy will not divert our management's time and attention from development of our core branded products in a way that would adversely affect writing instrument or other Cross branded sales. 