Item 1A RISK FACTORS The following section describes certain of the more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our operations. The risks and uncertainties below are those that we currently consider material; however, this section does not intend to discuss all possible risks and uncertainties that a company like Cross with broad international operations could experience. We are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. Further, there could be other risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that may become more significant to us. These Risk Factors should be read in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the SEC and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. We undertake no obligation to correct or update any forward-looking statements or statements of risk related thereto for any reason. 4 We depend on the success of new products. Our ability to sustain profitability and growth in sales depends largely on consumer acceptance of numerous new products recently introduced and planned for introduction. Further, consumer preferences are continuously changing. The markets in which we sell are highly competitive, and there is no assurance that consumer acceptance will be realized to the degree necessary to generate continued growth in our sales and earnings. Our global manufacturing, sales and distribution operations make us susceptible to the risks of overseas operations. We have sales offices and certain operations in ten countries and we have distributors worldwide. In 2012, approximately 38% of our revenue came from sales to locations outside the United States. We may be adversely affected in the event that global economic uncertainty erodes consumer confidence and purchasing. Most of our products are manufactured overseas. Operating internationally exposes us to changes in export controls and other laws or regulations, as well as the general political and economic conditions, security risks, natural disasters, health conditions and possible disruptions in transportation networks, of the various countries in which we operate, which could result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations in such countries. Incorrect forecasts of consumer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company manufactures product based on forecasts of consumer demand. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. If we inaccurately forecast consumer demand we may hold inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment analyses rely on forecasted cash flows resulting from our expectations of consumer demand. Failure to meet these forecasts could result in an impairment of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets, which would impact results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to retain and recruit a sufficient number of qualified employees in a competitive environment. Our success depends, in part, on our retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including technical, distribution, sourcing, marketing, sales, management and staff personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that we need. Our dependence on certain suppliers may leave us temporarily without adequate access to raw materials or products. To maintain the highest level of product quality, we rely on a limited number of domestic and foreign suppliers for certain raw materials, manufacturing technologies and certain finished products. We may be adversely affected in the event that these suppliers cease operations or if pricing terms become less favorable. We believe, but cannot guarantee, that we could obtain the raw materials currently supplied by these vendors from other sources and that we could either develop the manufacturing technologies internally or locate suitably similar technologies. If we are unable to replace a key supplier we may face delays in delivering finished products according to our customers' demands, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Overseas manufacturing makes us dependent upon the performance of our overseas partners. As a result of our manufacturing initiative, we manufacture most of our finished products in China. Our manufacturing operations in China are supported by a local partner from whom Cross leases the building housing Cross' physical plant. Unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation matters could prove costly to us. In 2002, the Company received a so-called notice letter under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") from the Federal Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) alleging that the Company is a Potentially Responsible Party (“PRP”) in one Superfund case. The Company has reached settlement of the case and paid a settlement amount of approximately $0.2 million in 2010. The EPA is expected to select a remedy for the Site in 2013. At that time, the EPA will initiate an administrative process (the "Special Notice Process") pursuant to CERCLA whereby the EPA will request that those entities that the EPA contends arranged for the disposal of hazardous materials at the Site (the PRPs), undertake the selected remedy at the Site. The EPA contends that the Company is a PRP at the Site. During the Special Notice Process, the Company and the other PRPs will engage in negotiations with the EPA regarding the remedy, and among themselves regarding the contribution of each PRP to overall remediation costs. Neither the cost of the remedy nor the identity of all PRPs is known at this time. Therefore it is not possible to assess the outcome of the Special Notice Process as it may relate to the Company's contribution to remediation costs. If we were required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the statutory framework would allow us to pursue rights to contribution from other PRPs. We are involved from time to time in litigation matters. An unfavorable resolution of pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management regardless of the outcome. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve a favorable settlement of pending litigation or obtain a favorable resolution of litigation if it is not settled. In addition, current and future litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruptions of our normal business operations. 5 Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 