Item 1A RISK FACTORS The following section describes certain of the more prominent risks and uncertainties inherent in our operations. The risks and uncertainties below are those that we currently consider material; however, this section does not intend to discuss all possible risks and uncertainties that a company like Cross with broad international operations could experience. We are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and the performance of our customers. Similarly, the price of our securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, differences in our results of operations from estimates and projections generated by the investment community, and other factors beyond our control. Further, there could be other risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that may become more significant to us. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and other of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. We undertake no obligation to correct or update any forward-looking statements or statements of risk related thereto for any reason. 4 We depend on the success of new products. Our ability to sustain profitability and growth in sales depends largely on consumer acceptance of numerous new products recently introduced and planned for introduction. Further, consumer preferences are continuously changing. The markets in which we sell are highly competitive, and there is no assurance that consumer acceptance will be realized to the degree necessary to generate continued growth in our sales and earnings. Our global manufacturing, sales and distribution operations make us susceptible to the risks of overseas operations. We have sales offices and certain operations in eight countries and distributors worldwide. In 2007, approximately 48% of our revenue came from sales to locations outside the United States. Most of our products are now manufactured overseas. Operating internationally exposes us to changes in export controls and other laws or regulations, as well as the general political and economic conditions, security risks, health conditions and possible disruptions in transportation networks, of the various countries in which we operate, which could result in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations in such countries. Incorrect forecasts of consumer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. The Company manufactures product based on forecasts of consumers' demands. These forecasts are based on multiple assumptions. If we inaccurately forecast consumer demand by over or underestimating that demand, we may hold inadequate, excess or obsolete inventory that would reduce our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to retain and recruit a sufficient number of qualified employees in a competitive environment. Our success depends in part on our retention and recruitment of skilled personnel, including technical, distribution, sourcing, marketing, sales, management and staff personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and recruit the key personnel that we need. Our dependence on certain suppliers may leave us temporarily without adequate access to raw materials or products. To maintain the highest level of product quality, we rely on a limited number of domestic and foreign suppliers for certain raw materials, manufacturing technologies and certain finished products. We may be adversely affected in the event that these suppliers cease operations or if pricing terms become less favorable. We believe, but cannot guarantee, that we could obtain the raw materials currently supplied by these vendors from other sources and that we could either develop the manufacturing technologies internally or locate suitably similar technologies. If we are unable to replace a key supplier we may face delays in delivering finished products according to our customers' demands, which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Overseas manufacturing makes us dependent upon the performance of our overseas partners. As a result of our manufacturing initiative, we manufacture most of our finished products in China. Our manufacturing operations in China are supported by a local manufacturing partner from whom Cross rents, under an Occupancy Agreement of indefinite duration, a building housing Cross' physical plant. It is expected that such Occupancy Agreement will be replaced by a long-term lease agreement upon our local manufacturing partner's resolution of certain local zoning issues. Should that partner not perform as expected or should the zoning issues not be favorably resolved there could be a material adverse effect on our operations. We depend on certain accounts for a significant percentage of our sales. The Company is dependent on three large office supply accounts, Staples, Inc., OfficeMax, Inc. and Office Depot, Inc.. The loss of one or more of these customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Further, there is no assurance that these accounts will maintain their current inventory levels. Unfavorable resolution of pending or future litigation matters could prove costly to us. We are involved from time to time in litigation matters. An unfavorable resolution of pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management regardless of the outcome. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve a favorable settlement of pending litigation or obtain a favorable resolution of litigation if it is not settled. In addition, current and future litigation, governmental proceedings or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruptions of our normal business operations. 5 Extension of the Cross brand beyond writing instruments may not produce the expected level of revenue forecast. Because of the maturity of the fine writing instrument industry, our ability to achieve growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to extend the Cross brand beyond writing instruments. There is no assurance that consumers will embrace extensions at the level necessary to generate sustainable growth for us with these products, or that consumers will accept the design and price of these products. Because we have less institutional experience with product lines outside of writing instruments, and because the complementary product lines that we enter into, such as business accessories and watches, may be extremely competitive already, these brand extensions may not prove to be successful, adversely affecting future sales growth. The diversification of our business may not be successful. In order to generate growth outside of writing instruments, one of our strategic initiatives has been to diversify outside of our core Cross branded product. Costa Del Mar was our first foray into this area of diversification. There can be no assurance that Costa Del Mar will continue to grow at its current levels or that we will find additional suitable targets for acquisition. If we do find a suitable acquisition target, we cannot ensure that we will be able to consummate a deal on terms satisfactory to us or that we will be able to successfully integrate those operations into the Company. Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 