ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report and other filings with the SEC should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, operating results may be affected in future periods. The loss of one or more of the Company’s key customers could result in a material loss of revenues. The Company’s top three customers represented 77% of gross sales in fiscal year 2008. Although we do not enter into contracts with our key customers, we expect them to continue to be a significant portion of our gross sales in the future. The loss of one or more of these customers could result in a material decrease in our revenue and operating income. The loss of one or more of the Company’s licenses could result in a material loss of revenues. Sales of licensed products represented 43% of the Company’s gross sales in fiscal year 2008, including 30% of sales which were associated with the Company’s license with Disney®. If the Company is unable to renew its major licenses or obtain new licenses, the Company could experience a material loss of revenues. 5 Table of Contents Changes in international trade regulations and other risks associated with foreign trade could adversely affect the Company’s sourcing. The Company sources all of its products from foreign contract manufacturers, with the largest concentration being in China. The adoption of regulations related to the importation of product, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported goods, and changes in U.S. customs procedures could result in an increase in the cost of the Company’s products. Delays in customs clearance of goods or the disruption of international transportation lines used by the Company could result in the Company being unable to deliver goods to customers in a timely manner and potentially the loss of sales altogether. The strength of our competitors may impact our ability to maintain and grow our sales, which could decrease the Company’s revenues. The infant and toddler consumer products industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a variety of distributors and manufacturers, both branded and private label. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends principally on styling, price, service to the retailer and continued high regard for the Company’s products and trade names. Many of these competitors are larger than the Company and have greater financial resources than the Company. Increased competition could result in a material loss of revenues. The Company’s ability to anticipate and respond to consumers’ tastes and preferences could adversely affect the Company’s revenues. Sales are driven by consumer demand for the Company’s products. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline or that we will be able to anticipate and respond to changes in demand. The Company’s failure to adapt to these changes could lead to lower sales and excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Customer pricing pressures could result in lower selling prices which could negatively affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s customers constantly place pressures on the Company to reduce its prices, partially due to the removal of quotas on certain of the Company’s products. The Company continuously strives to stay ahead in sourcing which allows us to obtain lower cost end products, while maintaining our high standards for quality. There can be no assurance that the Company can continue to reduce its costs to the same extent that sales prices decrease, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Economic conditions could adversely affect the Company’s raw material prices. The Company uses significant quantities of cotton, either in the form of cotton fabric or cotton-polyester fabric. Cotton is subject to ongoing price fluctuations because it is an agricultural product impacted by changing weather patterns, disease and other factors, such as supply and demand considerations, both domestically and internationally. In addition, increased oil prices affect key components of the raw material prices in our products. Significant increases in the prices of cotton and oil could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and other supplier related risks could increase the Company’s expenses. The Company’s products are manufactured by foreign contract manufacturers, with the largest concentration being in China. Difficulties encountered by these suppliers, such as fire, accident, natural disasters, outbreaks of contagious diseases or economic and political instability could halt or disrupt production of the Company’s products. Also, the prices paid by the Company to these suppliers could increase if raw materials, labor or other costs increase. In addition, restrictive actions by foreign governments, further strengthening of the Chinese currency versus the US dollar or changes in import duties or import or export restrictions could increase the prices at which the Company purchases finished goods. If the Company is unable to pass these cost increases along to its customers, profitability could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents The Company’s debt covenants may affect its liquidity or limit its ability to complete acquisitions, incur debt, make investments, sell assets or complete other significant transactions. The Company’s financing agreement contains usual and customary covenants regarding significant transactions, including limitations on other indebtedness, liens, transfers of assets, investments and acquisitions, merger or consolidation transactions, dividends, transactions with affiliates and changes in or amendments to the organizational documents for the Company and its subsidiaries. These covenants could restrict the Company’s ability to pursue opportunities to expand its business operations, respond to changes in business and economic conditions and obtain additional financing. The Company also may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to it. The Company’s ability to comply with its financing agreement is subject to future performance and other factors. The Company’s ability to make scheduled payments of principal, to pay the interest on or to refinance its maturing indebtedness, to fund capital expenditures or to comply with its debt covenants will depend upon future performance. The Company’s future performance is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond its control. The breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Company’s financing agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the Company’s lenders could declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that the Company’s assets would be sufficient to repay in full that indebtedness. Increases in interest rates could cause the Company’s expenses to increase. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk related to the Company’s floating rate debt, of which there was $21.6 million outstanding at March 30, 2008. Each 1.0 percentage point increase in interest rates would impact pre-tax earnings by $216,000 at the debt level of March 30, 2008. Recalls or product liability claims could increase costs or reduce sales. The Company must comply with regulations set by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state regulatory authorities. In addition, the Company’s products are subject to product safety testing. The Company’s products could be subject to involuntary recalls and other actions by these authorities, and concerns about product safety may lead the Company to voluntarily recall selected products. Product liability claims could exceed or fall outside the scope of the Company’s insurance coverage. Recalls or product liability claims could result in decreased consumer demand for the Company’s products, damage to the Company’s reputation, a diversion of management’s attention from its business, and increased customer service and support costs. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel. The Company’s ability to retain qualified executive management and other key personnel is vital to the Company’s success. If the Company were unable to retain or attract qualified individuals, the Company’s growth and operating results could be materially impacted. 