ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, operating results may be affected in future periods. The loss of one or more of the Company’s key customers could result in a material loss of revenues. The Company’s top three customers represented 79% of gross sales in fiscal 2006. Although we do not enter into contracts with our key customers, we expect them to continue to be a significant portion of our gross sales in the future. The loss of one or more of these customers could result in a material decrease in our revenue and operating income. The loss of one or more of the Company’s licenses could result in a material loss of revenues. Sales of licensed products represented 53% of the Company’s gross sales in fiscal 2006, including 41% of sales which were associated with the Company’s license with Disney®. If the Company is unable to renew its major licenses or obtain new licenses, the Company could experience a material loss of revenues. 5 Table of Contents Changes in international trade regulations and other risks associated with foreign trade could adversely affect the Company’s sourcing. With the exception of hand-woven products produced by Churchill Weavers, Inc., the Company sources all of its products from foreign contract manufacturers, with the largest concentration being in China. The adoption of regulations related to the importation of product, including quotas, duties, taxes and other charges or restrictions on imported goods, and changes in U.S. customs procedures could result in an increase in the cost of the Company’s products. Delays in customs clearance of goods or the disruption of international transportation lines used by the Company could result in the Company being unable to deliver goods to customers in a timely manner and potentially the loss of sales altogether. The strength of our competitors may impact our ability to maintain and grow our sales, which could decrease the Company’s revenues. The infant consumer products industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a variety of distributors and manufacturers both branded and private label. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends principally on styling, price, service to the retailer and continued high regard for the Company’s products and trade names. Many of these competitors are larger than the Company and have greater financial resources than the Company. Increased competition could result in a material loss of revenues. The Company’s ability to anticipate and respond to consumers’ tastes and preferences could adversely affect the Company’s revenues. Sales are driven by consumer demands for the Company’s products. There can be no assurance that the demand for our products will not decline or that we will be able to anticipate and respond to changes in demand. The Company’s failure to adapt to these changes could lead to lower sales and excess inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Customer pricing pressures could result in lower selling prices which could negatively affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s customers constantly place pressures on the Company to reduce its prices, partially due to the removal of quotas on certain of the Company’s products. The Company continuously strives to stay ahead in sourcing which allows us to obtain lower cost end products, while maintaining our high standards for quality. There can be no assurance that the Company can continue to reduce its costs to the same extent that sales prices decrease, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s success is dependent upon retaining key management personnel. The Company’s ability to retain qualified executive management and other key personnel is vital to the Company’s success. If the Company were unable to retain or attract qualified individuals, the Company’s growth and operating results could be materially impacted. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 