ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business A worsening of the global recession and continued credit tightening could continue to adversely affect us. The current global recession and continued credit tightening, including failures of financial institutions, have initiated unprecedented government intervention in the U.S., Europe and other regions of the world. If macro-economic concerns continue or worsen, our customers could experience heightened financial difficulties, and as a result, could modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products or services, which could cause our sales to decline, or become unable to make payment to us for amounts due and owing. In addition, our suppliers could experience credit or other financial difficulties that could result in delays in their ability to supply us with necessary raw materials, components or finished products. These conditions may make it extremely difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could result in an asset impairment. The occurrence of any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, our sales declined by approximately $44 million, or approximately 7%, between fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009. This decline caused us in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 to write-off approximately $41.2 million of goodwill and other intangible assets related to our RF and microwave reporting unit due to the decrease in sales and prospects of that unit in the then current economic environment. 21 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Our sales and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and we expect this trend will continue. Factors which affect our results include: · the timing, cancellation or rescheduling of customer orders and shipments; · the pricing and mix of products sold; · our ability to obtain components and subassemblies from contract manufacturers and suppliers; · variations in manufacturing efficiencies; and · research and development and new product introductions. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our performance in any one fiscal quarter is not necessarily indicative of any financial trends or future performance. The cyclicality of our end user markets could harm our financial results. Many of the end markets we serve, including but not limited to the commercial wireless market, have historically been cyclical and have experienced periodic downturns. The factors leading to and the severity and length of a downturn are very difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that we will appropriately anticipate changes in the underlying end markets we serve or that any increased levels of business activity will continue as a trend into the future. If we fail to anticipate changes in the end markets we serve, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our future operating results are dependent on the growth in our customers’ businesses and on our ability to identify and enter new markets. Our growth is dependent on the growth in the sales of our customers’ products as well as the development by our customers of new products. If we fail to anticipate changes in our customers’ businesses and their changing product needs or successfully identify and enter new markets, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that the markets we serve will grow in the future, that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of these markets or that we can maintain adequate gross margins or profits in these markets. A decline in demand in one or several of our end-user markets could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly competitive and if we are not able to successfully compete, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Current and prospective customers for our products evaluate our capabilities against the merits of our direct competitors. We compete primarily on the basis of technology and performance. For certain products, we also compete on price. Some of our competitors are well-established and have greater market share and manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. We also compete with emerging companies that are attempting to sell their products in specialized markets, and with the internal capabilities of many of our significant customers, including Honeywell and BAE. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market share with respect to any of our products. A loss of market share to our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a significant portion of our contracts, including those with the federal government and commercial customers, are subject to commercial bidding, both upon initial issuance and subsequent renewal. If we are unable to successfully compete in the bidding process or if we fail to obtain renewal, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and if we cannot continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products that meet customer requirements for performance and reliability, we may lose market share and our net sales may suffer. The process of developing new products for our markets is complex and uncertain, and failure to keep pace with our competitors’ technological development, to develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our results of operations. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will eventually result in products that the market will accept. We must accurately forecast volumes, mix of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed. If we do not succeed, we may be left with inventories of obsolete products or we may not have enough of some products available to meet customer demand, which could lead to reduced sales and higher expenses. We design custom products to meet specific requirements of our customers. The amount and timing of revenue from such products can affect our quarterly operating results. The design and sales cycle for our custom products, from initial contact by our sales force to the commencement of shipments of those products in commercial quantities, may be lengthy. In this process, our sales and application engineers work closely with the customer to analyze the customer’s system requirements and establish a technical specification for the custom product. We then select a process, evaluate components, and establish assembly and test procedures before manufacturing in commercial quantities can begin. The length of this cycle is influenced by many factors, including the difficulty of the technical specification, the novelty and complexity of the design and the customer’s procurement processes. Our customers typically do not commit to purchase significant quantities of the custom product until they are ready to commence volume shipments of their own system or equipment. Our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of a custom product often depends on that customer’s commercial success in manufacturing and selling its system or equipment that incorporates our custom product. As a result, a significant period may elapse between our investment of time and resources in designing and developing a custom product and our receipt of substantial revenue from sales of that custom product. The length of this process may increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or change its plans related to its system or equipment. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose anticipated sales. In addition, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if a significant customer curtails, reduces or delays orders during our sales cycle, chooses not to release its system or equipment that contains our custom products, or is not successful in the sale and marketing of its system or equipment that contains our custom products. Additionally, some customers may be unlikely to change their supplier due to the significant costs associated with qualifying a new supplier and potentially redesigning their system or equipment. So, if we fail to achieve initial design wins in the customer’s qualification process, we may not regain the opportunity for significant sales to this customer for a lengthy period of time. Our major customers account for a sizable portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or a reduction in, orders from these customers could result in a decline in revenue. Revenue derived from our 10 largest customers as a percentage of our annual revenue was 36% for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. Our major customers often use our products in multiple systems or programs, sometimes developed by different business units within the customer’s organization, each having differing product life cycles, end customers and market dynamics. While the composition of our top 10 customers varies from year to year, we expect that sales to a limited number of customers will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. It is possible that any of our major customers could terminate its purchasing arrangements with us or significantly reduce or delay the amount of our products that it orders, purchase products from our competitors or develop its own products internally. The loss of, or a reduction in, orders from any major customer could cause a decline in our overall revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents In the event that certain of our customers encounter financial difficulties and fail to pay us, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We manufacture products to customer specifications and generally purchase raw materials in response to customer orders. In addition, we may commit significant amounts of capital to maintain inventory in anticipation of customer orders. In the event that our customers for whom we maintain inventory experience financial difficulties, we may be unable to sell such inventory at its current profit margin, if at all. In such an event, our gross margins would decline. In addition, if the financial condition of a significant portion of our customer base deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to pay us amounts owed in respect of a significant amount of outstanding receivables, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely on sales to federal government entities under prime contracts and subcontracts. A loss or reduction of such contracts, a failure to obtain new contracts or a reduction of sales under such contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business. We derived approximately 34% of our net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 from contracts with agencies of the federal government or subcontracts with prime defense contractors or subcontractors of the federal government. The loss or significant curtailment of any of these government contracts or subcontracts, or failure to exercise renewal options or enter into new contracts or subcontracts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Continuation and the exercise of renewal options on existing government contracts and subcontracts and new government contracts and subcontracts are, among other things, contingent upon the availability of adequate funding for the various federal government agencies with which we and prime government contractors do business. Changes in federal government spending could directly affect our financial performance. Among the factors that could impact federal government spending and which would reduce our federal government contracting and subcontracting business are: · a significant decline in, or reapportioning of, spending by the federal government; · changes, delays or cancellations of federal government programs or requirements; · the adoption of new laws or regulations that affect companies that provide services to the federal government; · federal government shutdowns or other delays in the government appropriations process; · curtailment of the federal government’s use of third-party service firms; · changes in the political climate, including with regard to the funding or operation of the services we provide; and · general economic conditions. If the current presidential administration were to reorder its budgetary priorities resulting in a general decline in U.S. defense spending, it could cause federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, exercise their rights to terminate contracts in whole or in part, to issue temporary stop work orders or decline to exercise options to renew contracts, all of which could harm our operations and significantly reduce our future revenues. 24 Table of Contents Federal government contracts may be terminated by the federal government at any time prior to their completion and contain other unfavorable provisions, which could lead to unexpected loss of sales and reduction in backlog. Under the terms of federal government contracts, the federal government may unilaterally: · terminate or modify existing contracts; · reduce the value of existing contracts through partial termination; · delay the payment of our invoices by government payment offices; · audit our contract-related costs; and · suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of any alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations. The federal government can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us or its prime contractors either for its convenience, or if we or its prime contractors default, by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and subcontracts. If the federal government or its prime contractors terminate and/or materially modify any of our contracts or if any applicable options are not exercised, our failure to replace sales generated from such contracts would result in lower sales and could adversely affect our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our backlog as of June 30, 2010 was approximately $305.6 million, of which approximately 51% represented firm contracts with agencies of the U.S. government or prime defense contractors or subcontractors of the U.S. government. There can be no assurance that any of the contracts comprising our backlog will result in actual sales in any particular period or that the actual sales from such contracts will equal our backlog estimates. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any contract included in our estimated backlog that generates sales will be profitable. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit or other actions, including suspension or debarment, by the federal government. As a federal government contractor, we must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with the federal government and our prime government contractors and subcontractors, and in some instances, impose added costs on our business. Federal government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review each contractor’s contract performance, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Such agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed. In addition, government contract payments received by us for allowable direct and indirect costs are subject to adjustment after audit by government auditors and repayment to the government if the payments exceed allowable costs as defined in the government contracts. As a federal government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which companies with solely commercial customers are not subject, the results of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we were suspended or prohibited from contracting with the federal government generally, or any significant federal government agency specifically, if our reputation or relationship with federal government agencies were impaired or if the federal government otherwise ceased doing business with us or 25 Table of Contents significantly decreased the amount of business it does with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Under some of our government contracts, we are required to maintain secure facilities and to obtain security clearances for personnel involved in performance of the contract, in compliance with applicable federal standards. If we were unable to comply with these requirements, or if personnel critical to our performance of these contracts were to lose their security clearances, we might be unable to perform these contracts or compete for other projects of this nature, which could adversely affect our revenue. Our federal government contracts are subject to competitive bidding, both upon initial issuance and subsequent renewal. If we are unable to successfully compete in the bidding process or if we fail to receive renewal, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our federal government contracts are awarded through a competitive bidding process, including upon renewal, and we expect that this will continue to be the case. There often is significant competition and pricing pressure as a result of this process. The competitive bidding process presents a number of risks such as: · we must expend substantial funds and time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts, which could detract attention from other parts of our business; · we may be unable to estimate accurately the resources and cost that will be required to complete any contract we win, which could result in substantial cost overruns; and · we may encounter expense and delay if our competitors protest or challenge awards of contracts to us, and any such protest or challenge could result in a requirement to resubmit bids on modified specifications or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. The government contracts for which we compete typically have multiple option periods, and if we fail to win a contract, we generally will be unable to compete again for that contract for several years. If we fail to win new contracts or to receive renewal contracts, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New products are subject to greater technology, design and operational risks, and a delay in introducing new products could harm our competitive position. Our future success is highly dependent upon the timely development and introduction of competitive new products at acceptable margins. However, there are greater design and operational risks associated with new products. The inability of our suppliers to produce advanced products, delays in commencing or maintaining volume shipments of new products, the discovery of product, process, software, or programming defects or failures and any related product returns could each have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. We have experienced from time to time in the past, and expect to experience in the future, difficulties and delays in achieving satisfactory, sustainable yields on new products. Yield problems increase the cost of our new products as well as the time it takes us to bring them to market, which can create inventory shortages and dissatisfied customers. Any prolonged inability to obtain adequate yields or deliveries of new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to detect unknown defects in our products could materially harm our relationship with customers, our reputation and our business. We may not be able to anticipate all of the possible performance or reliability problems that could arise with our existing or new products, which could result in significant product liability or warranty claims. In addition, 26 Table of Contents any defects found in our products could result in a loss of sales or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation, indemnification claims, litigation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could discourage customers from purchasing our products and materially harm our business. Our purchase agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, the limitation of liability provisions contained in these agreements may not be effective as a result of federal, state or local laws, or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions in the United States or other countries. The insurance we maintain to protect against claims associated with the use of our products may not adequately cover all claims asserted against us. In addition, even if ultimately unsuccessful, such claims could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time and resources, and damage our customer relationships. Our AMS segment depends on third-party contractors to fabricate semiconductor products and we outsource other portions of our business; a failure to perform by these third parties may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. As part of our efforts to minimize the amount of required capital investment in facilities, equipment and labor and increase our ability to quickly respond to changes in technology and customer requirements, our AMS segment outsources its semiconductor fabrication processes and we outsource certain other manufacturing and engineering functions to third parties. This reliance on third-party manufacturers and engineers involves significant risks, including lack of control over capacity allocation, delivery schedules, the resolution of technical difficulties and the development of new processes. We rely heavily on our third-party manufacturers to be able to deliver materials, know-how and technology to us without encumbrances. Disputes regarding the ownership of or rights in certain third-party intellectual property may preclude our third-party manufacturers from fulfilling our requirements at a reasonable cost or, in some cases, at all. A shortage of raw materials or production capacity could lead any of our third-party manufacturers to allocate available capacity to other customers, or to internal uses. If these third parties fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality and cost levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer and our costs could increase. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers’ orders on a timely basis, which could lead to a loss in sales. The ability of these third parties to perform is largely outside of our control. Non-performance by our suppliers may adversely affect our operations. Because we purchase various types of raw materials and component parts from suppliers, we may be materially and adversely affected by the failure of those suppliers to perform as expected. This non-performance may consist of delivery delays or failures caused by production issues or delivery of non-conforming products. The risk of non-performance may also result from the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our suppliers. Our efforts to protect against and to minimize these risks may not always be effective. We may occasionally seek to engage new suppliers with which we have little or no experience. The use of new suppliers can pose technical, quality and other risks. We use specialized technologies and know-how to design, develop and manufacture our products. Our inability to protect our intellectual property could hurt our competitive position, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. As a technology company, we rely on our patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and proprietary know-how and concepts. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights, both in the United States and in foreign countries, through a combination of patent, trademark, copyrights and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, copyright, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that while the protection afforded by 27 Table of Contents patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws may provide some advantages, the competitive position of participants in our industry is principally determined by such factors as the technical and creative skills of their personnel, the frequency of their new product developments and their ability to anticipate and rapidly respond to evolving market requirements. To the extent that a competitor effectively uses its intellectual property portfolio, including patents, to prevent us from selling products that allegedly infringe such competitor’s products, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We have from time to time applied for patent protection relating to certain existing and proposed products, processes and services, but we do not have an active patent application strategy. When we do apply for patents, we generally apply in those countries where we intend to make, have made, use or sell patented products; however, we may not accurately predict all of the countries where patent protection will ultimately be desirable. If we fail to timely file a patent application in any such country, we may be precluded from doing so at a later date. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be approved. We also cannot assure you that the patents issued as a result of our foreign patent applications will have the same scope of coverage as our United States patents. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our patents, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Some of our proprietary technology may have been developed under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. With respect to technology developed under such agreements, the U.S. government may retain a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to use the technology on behalf of the United States throughout the world. In addition, the U.S. government may obtain additional rights to such technology, or our ability to exploit such technology may be limited. We rely on our trademarks, tradenames and brand names to distinguish our products and services from the products and services of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register many of these trademarks. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our products and services, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources towards marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. We cannot assure you that these agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, our sales could decrease. If third parties claim that we infringe upon or misappropriate their intellectual property rights, our net sales, gross margins and expenses could be adversely affected. We face the risk of claims that we have infringed or misappropriated third parties’ intellectual property rights. Any claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement, even those without merit, could: · be expensive and time consuming to defend; · cause us to cease making or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; · require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our products, if feasible; · divert management’s attention and resources; and · require us to enter into licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a third party’s intellectual property. 28 Table of Contents Any licensing agreements, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us could result in our being required to pay significant damages, enter into costly license agreements, or stop the sale of certain products, which could adversely affect our net sales, gross margins and expenses and harm our future prospects. Many patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, and therefore there is a risk that we could adopt a technology without knowledge of a pending patent application, which technology would infringe a third party patent once that patent is issued. We license third-party technologies for the development of certain of our products, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or are unable to secure alternative licenses on reasonable terms, our business could be adversely affected. We license third-party technologies that are integrated into certain of our products. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner and our ability to make these products could be harmed. In addition, licensed technology may be subject to claims that it infringes others’ technology, and we may lose access to or have restrictions placed on our use of the licensed technology. Our licenses of third-party technologies have certain requirements that we must meet to maintain the license. For instance, if we fail to meet certain minimum royalty or purchase amounts, or meet delivery deadlines, certain licenses may be converted from an exclusive license to a non-exclusive license, thus allowing the licensors to license the technology to our competitors. We cannot guarantee that third-party technologies that we license will not be licensed to our competitors. In the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses, renew existing license agreements or otherwise replace existing technology. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed or the technology can be replaced on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, if we are unable to successfully license technology from third parties to develop future products, we may not be able to develop such products in a timely manner or at all. As part of our business strategy, we may complete acquisitions or divest non-strategic businesses and product lines and undertake restructuring efforts. These actions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures in order to manage our product and technology portfolios and further our strategic objectives. We also continually look for ways to increase the profitability of our operations through restructuring efforts and to consolidate operations across facilities where synergies exist. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable acquisition, alliance or divestiture candidates, complete these transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and integrate acquired companies. Integration and other risks of acquisitions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple acquisitions are pursued simultaneously. The integration of acquisitions may make the completion and integration of subsequent acquisitions more difficult. However, if we fail to identify and complete these transactions, we may be required to expend resources to internally develop products and technology or may be at a competitive disadvantage or may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions may require us to integrate different company cultures, management teams and business infrastructures and otherwise manage integration risks. Even if an acquisition is successfully integrated, we may not receive the expected benefits of the transaction. A successful sale or divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to effectively transfer assets and liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser, identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep and reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets of the business. 29 Table of Contents Managing acquisitions and divestitures requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert management’s attention from our other business operations. Acquisitions, including abandoned acquisitions, also may result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings. Restructuring activities may result in business disruptions and may not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits anticipated. Further, the benefits may be realized later than expected and the cost of implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful, we may need to undertake additional cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, we could experience business disruptions with customers and elsewhere if our cost reduction and restructuring efforts prove ineffective, and our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We rely on the significant experience and specialized expertise of our senior management and engineering staff and must retain and attract qualified engineers and other highly skilled personnel in order to grow our business successfully. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and our highly qualified team of engineers, many of whom have numerous years of experience and specialized expertise in our business. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. In particular, our product generation efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Attracting and retaining skilled workers and qualified sales representatives is also critical to us. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the microelectronics and test solutions industries are in demand and competition for their talents is intense. Employee retention may be a particularly challenging issue following acquisitions or divestitures since we also must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to the potential distractions related to integrating the acquired operations or divesting businesses to be sold. If we lose the services of any key personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be required to make significant payments to members of our management in the event their employment with us is terminated. We are a party to employment agreements with each of Leonard Borow, our President and Chief Executive Officer, John Buyko, our Executive Vice President and President of our AMS division, John Adamovich, our Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Edward Wactlar, hired July 1, 2010 as our General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Charles Badlato, our Vice President—Treasurer, and Carl Caruso, our Vice President—Manufacturing. In the event we terminate the employment of any of these executives, or in certain cases, if such executives terminate their employment with us, such executives will be entitled to receive certain severance and related payments. At July 1, 2010 the maximum aggregate amount payable by us to Messrs. Borow, Buyko, Adamovich, Wactlar, Badlato and Caruso upon the termination of their respective employment agreements with us is $9.9 million. We rely on our information technology systems to manage numerous aspects of our business and a disruption of these systems could adversely affect our business. Our information technology, or IT, systems are an integral part of our business. We depend on our IT systems for scheduling, sales order entry, purchasing, materials management, accounting and production functions. Our IT systems also allow us to ship products to our customers on a timely basis, maintain cost-effective operations and provide a high level of customer service. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. A serious disruption to our IT systems could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business efficiently, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes could harm our future sales, expenses and financial condition. Our future sales, costs and expenses could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including: · changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; · longer accounts receivable cycles; · trade protection measures; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · differing technology standards and/or customer requirements; and · import or export licensing requirements, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components or lead to penalties or restrictions. For fiscal 2010, sales of our products to foreign customers accounted for approximately 42% of our net sales. As of June 30, 2010, we employed approximately 810 employees overseas. In addition, a portion of our product and component manufacturing, along with key suppliers, is located outside of the United States, and also could be disrupted by some of the international factors described above. Certain of our products may be controlled by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and the Export Administration Regulations, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR. The ITAR requires export licenses from the U.S. Department of State for products shipped outside the U.S. that have military or strategic applications. In this connection, we have filed certain Voluntary Disclosures with the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, U.S. Department of State describing possible inadvertent violations involving, among other things, the unlicensed export of controlled products to end-users in a number of countries, including China and Russia. We have also identified ITAR noncompliance in the pre-acquisition business activities of a recently acquired company. These matters have been formally disclosed to the U.S. Department of State. See Item 3 - “Legal Proceedings”. Compliance with the directives of the U.S. Department of State may result in substantial legal and other expenses and the diversion of management time. In the event that a determination is made that we or any entity we have acquired has violated the ITAR with respect to any matters, we may be subject to substantial monetary penalties that we are unable to quantify at this time, and/or suspension or revocation of our export privileges and criminal sanctions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR. The EAR regulates the export of certain “dual use” items and technologies and, in some instances, requires a license from the U.S. Department of Commerce. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risks that are inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates relates primarily to the British pound and the Euro. For fiscal 2010, sales of our products to foreign customers accounted for approximately 42% of our net sales. In addition, a portion of our product and component manufacturing, along with key suppliers, are located outside 31 Table of Contents of the United States. Failure to sufficiently hedge or otherwise manage foreign currency risks properly could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with and changes in environmental, health and safety laws regulating the present and past operations of our business and the business of predecessor companies could increase the costs of producing our products and expose us to environmental claims. Our business is subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning environmental, health and safety matters, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges and the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. Violations of such laws and regulations can lead to substantial fines and penalties and other civil or criminal sanctions. We incur costs associated with compliance with these laws and regulations and we face risks of additional costs and liabilities including those related to the investigation and remediation of, or claims for personal injuries or property damages associated with, past or present contamination, at current as well as former properties utilized by us and at third-party disposal sites, regardless of fault or the legality of the original activities that led to such contamination. In addition, future developments, such as changes in laws and regulations or the enforcement thereof, more stringent enforcement or interpretation thereof and claims for property damage or personal injury could cause us to incur substantial losses or expenditures. Although we believe we are materially compliant with all applicable current laws and regulations, any new or modified laws or regulations, or the discovery of any currently unknown non-compliance or contamination, could increase the cost of producing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are applicable to us have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. The effort to comply with these obligations may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our operating performance. In addition, we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we cannot remedy in a timely manner. We could also experience greater outside and internal costs as a result of our continuing efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including Section 404. We are subject to unanticipated market conditions that could adversely affect our available working capital and financial position. We hold investments in certain auction rate securities, or ARS. Beginning in February 2008, auctions for the resale of ARS have ceased to reliably support the liquidity of these securities. We cannot be certain that liquidity will be restored in the foreseeable future or at all. We may not be able to access cash by selling these securities for which there is insufficient demand without a loss of principal until a future auction for these investments is successful, a secondary market emerges, they are redeemed by their issuer or they mature. These securities are classified as non-current assets. In addition, the value of such investments could potentially be impaired on a temporary or other-than-temporary basis. If it is determined that the value of the investment is impaired on an other-than-temporary basis, we would be required to write down the investment to its fair value and record a charge to earnings for the amount of the impairment. As of June 30, 2010, we held ARS with a par value of $11.1 million and a fair value of $9.8 million. Changes in tax rates or policies or changes to our tax liabilities could affect operating results. We are subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries, including the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany and China. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate our worldwide tax liabilities and our future annual and quarterly tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in the applicable tax laws, composition of earnings in countries or states with differing tax rates, repatriation of foreign earnings to the United States or our valuation and utilization of deferred tax assets and 32 Table of Contents liabilities. In addition, we are subject to regular examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, we regularly evaluate the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, and there can be no assurance that any final determination by a taxing authority will not result in additional tax liability which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Accounting standards periodically change and the application of our accounting policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. The regulatory bodies that establish accounting standards, including, among others, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC, periodically revise or issue new financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The effect of such revised or new standards on our consolidated financial statements can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our management must exercise judgment in appropriately applying many of our accounting policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted accounting principles. In some cases, the accounting policy or method chosen might be reasonable under the circumstances and yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported if we had selected a different policy or method. Accounting policies are critical to fairly presenting our results of operations and financial condition and may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Our operations are subject to business interruptions and casualty losses. Our business is subject to numerous inherent risks, particularly unplanned events such as inclement weather, explosions, fires, terrorist acts, other accidents, equipment failures and transportation interruptions. While our insurance coverage could offset losses relating to some of these types of events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected to the extent any such losses are not covered by our insurance. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Instability in financial markets could adversely affect our ability to access additional capital. In recent years, the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets have reached unprecedented levels. If these conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a material adverse effect on our ability to borrow money, including under our senior secured credit facility, or have access to capital, if needed. Although our lenders have made commitments to make funds available to us in a timely fashion, our lenders may be unable or unwilling to lend money. In addition, if we determine that it is appropriate or necessary to raise capital in the future, the future cost of raising funds through the debt or equity markets may be more expensive or those markets may be unavailable. If we were unable to raise funds through debt or equity markets, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2010, we had $901.8 million of debt outstanding, including approximately $510.6 million of secured debt under our senior secured credit facility, $225.0 million of aggregate principal amount of senior notes, or senior notes, or Notes, under the indenture governing our senior notes and $165.5 million of subordinated unsecured debt under our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility. Additionally, as of June 30, 2010, we had the ability to borrow an additional $50.0 million under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; 33 Table of Contents · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our worldwide cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and · adversely impact our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions in our debt agreements, and, in turn, could result in a default under our debt agreements. Increases in interest rates could increase interest costs under our senior secured credit facility. Our senior secured credit facility bears interest at variable rates. As of June 30, 2010, we had $510.6 million outstanding under the term loan portion of our senior secured credit facility, the un-hedged portion which is subject to variable interest rates. Each change of 1% in interest rates would result in a $2.6 million change in our annual interest expense on the un-hedged portion of the term loan borrowings and a $507,000 change in our annual interest expense on the revolving loan borrowings, assuming the entire $50.0 million under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility was outstanding. Any debt we incur in the future may also bear interest at variable rates. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our debt allow us to incur substantial amounts of additional debt, subject to certain limitations. For example, we have up to $50.0 million of availability under the revolving portion of our senior secured credit facility and we have the ability to increase the aggregate amount of our senior secured credit facility by up to an aggregate amount equal to the greater of (i) $75.0 million and (ii) such greater amount if as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter, the senior secured leverage ratio would be 3.75:1.00 or less after giving effect to such greater amount as if such greater amount were drawn in its entirety as of such date, in each case without the consent of any person other than the institutions agreeing to provide all or any portion of such increase. If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face would intensify. To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures, will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our senior secured credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, to the extent we have consolidated excess cash flow, as defined in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we must use specified portions of the excess cash flow to prepay the senior secured credit facility. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 34 Table of Contents In addition, if for any reason we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we would be in default under the terms of our agreements governing our outstanding debt. If such a default were to occur, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility immediately due and payable, and the lenders would not be obligated to continue to advance funds to us. In addition, if such a default were to occur, any amounts then outstanding under the senior subordinated unsecured credit facility or senior notes could become immediately due and payable. If the amounts outstanding under these debt agreements are accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full the amounts owed to our debt holders. The right to receive payments on the Senior Notes is effectively subordinated to the rights of our and the guarantors’ existing and future secured creditors. Holders of our secured indebtedness and the secured indebtedness of the guarantors of our indebtedness will have claims that are prior to the claims of the holders of the Notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing that other indebtedness. Notably, we and our subsidiaries, including the guarantors, are parties to our senior secured credit facility, which is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets and the assets of the guarantors and a pledge of all of our capital stock and all of the capital stock of our domestic subsidiaries. The Notes are effectively subordinated to all of our secured indebtedness. In the event of any distribution or payment of our assets or any pledged capital stock in any foreclosure, dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization or other bankruptcy proceeding, holders of secured indebtedness will have prior claims to those of our assets and any pledged capital stock that constitute their collateral. Holders of the Notes will participate ratably with all other holders of our unsecured indebtedness that is deemed to be of the same class as the Notes and potentially with all of our other general creditors, based upon the respective amounts owed to each holder or creditor, in our remaining assets. In any of the foregoing events, there may not be sufficient assets to pay amounts due on the Notes. As a result, holders of the Notes may receive less, ratably, than holders of secured indebtedness. If we default on our obligations to pay our other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the Notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under our senior secured credit facility or our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could make us unable to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes and substantially decrease the market value of the Notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants, including financial and operating covenants, in the instruments governing our indebtedness (including our senior secured credit facility and our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility), we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our senior secured credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to seek to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit facility, our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility or other debt that we may incur in the future to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit facility or our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit facility and/or our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we are unable to repay debt, lenders having secured obligations, such as the lenders under our senior secured credit facility, could proceed against the collateral securing the debt. Because the Indenture governing the Notes, our senior secured credit facility and our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility have customary cross-default provisions, if the indebtedness under the Notes, our senior secured credit facility, our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility, or any of our other debt is accelerated, we may be unable to repay or finance the amounts due. 35 Table of Contents Our senior secured credit facility, our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. Our senior secured credit facility, our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain restrictions on our activities, including but not limited to covenants that restrict us and our restricted subsidiaries, as defined in our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility, from: · incurring additional indebtedness and issuing disqualified stock or preferred stock; · making certain investments or other restricted payments; · paying dividends and making other distributions with respect to capital stock, or repurchasing, redeeming or retiring capital stock or subordinated debt; · selling or otherwise disposing of our assets; · under certain circumstances, issuing or selling equity interests; · creating liens on our assets; · consolidating or merging with, or acquiring in excess of specified annual limitations, another business, or selling or disposing of all or substantially all of our assets; and · entering into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, under our senior secured credit facility, we are required to comply with a maximum total leverage ratio test. If we fail to maintain compliance with the maximum total leverage ratio test under our senior secured credit facility and do not remedy any non-compliance through the issuance of additional equity interests pursuant to the limited cure right set forth therein, we will be in default. The senior secured credit facility also requires us to use specified portions of our consolidated excess cash flow, as defined in the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, to prepay the senior secured credit facility. The restrictions in our senior secured credit facility, the senior subordinated unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We also may incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We may not be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, and we may not be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility, our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes. An event of default under our debt agreements could permit our lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable. 36 Table of Contents We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance any change of control offer required by the indenture governing the Notes. Upon the occurrence of certain kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase outstanding Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of the Notes or that restrictions in our senior secured credit facility will not allow such repurchases. Our failure to purchase the tendered Notes would constitute an event of default under the Indenture governing the Notes which, in turn, would constitute a default under our senior secured credit facility and, if the lenders accelerate the debt under our senior secured credit facility, a default under our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility. In addition, the occurrence of a change of control would also constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit facility. A default under our senior secured credit facility would result in a default under the indenture and under our senior subordinated unsecured credit facility, if the lenders accelerate the debt under our senior secured credit facility. Moreover, our senior secured credit facility restricts, and any future indebtedness we incur may restrict, our ability to repurchase the Notes, including following a change of control event. As a result, following a change of control event, we would not be able to repurchase the Notes unless we first repay all indebtedness outstanding under our senior secured credit facility and any of our other indebtedness that contains similar provisions, or obtain a waiver from the holders of such indebtedness to permit us to repurchase the Notes. We may be unable to repay all of that indebtedness or obtain a waiver of that type. Any requirement to offer to repurchase the outstanding Notes may therefore require us to refinance our other outstanding debt, which we may not be able to do on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. These repurchase requirements may also delay or make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us. Federal and state statutes allow courts, under certain specific circumstances, to void guarantees and/or require note holders to return payments received from guarantors. Under current federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or fraudulent conveyance laws, a guarantee may be voided or cancelled, or claims in respect of a guarantee may be subordinated to all other debts of that guarantor if, among other things, the guarantor, at the time it incurred the indebtedness evidenced by its guarantee: · issued the guarantee with the intent to delay, hinder or defraud present or future creditors; or · received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the incurrence of such guarantee; and either · was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; or · was engaged, or about to engage, in a business or transaction for which the guarantor’s remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or · intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature (as all of the foregoing terms are defined in or interpreted under the fraudulent transfer or conveyance statutes); or · was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it (if, in either case, after final judgment the judgment is unsatisfied). In addition, any payment by that guarantor pursuant to its guarantee could be voided and required to be returned to the guarantor, or to a fund for the benefit of the creditors of the guarantor. A court likely would find that a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in exchange for its guarantee if the value received by the guarantor were found to be disproportionately small when compared with its obligations under the guarantee or, put differently, it did not benefit, directly or 37 Table of Contents indirectly, from the issuance of the Notes. The measures of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws will vary depending upon the particular law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer or conveyance has occurred. Generally, however, a guarantor would be considered insolvent if: · the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets; or · if the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or · it could not pay its debts as they become due. On the basis of historical financial information, recent operating history and other factors, we believe that each guarantor, after giving effect to its guarantee of the Notes, will not be insolvent, will not have unreasonably small capital for the business in which it is engaged and will not have incurred debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. We cannot assure you, however, as to what standard a court would apply in making these determinations or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard. The Notes are structurally subordinated to all obligations of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The Notes are not guaranteed by any of our current or future foreign subsidiaries. As a result of this structure, the Notes are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and other obligations, including trade payables, of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. The effect of this subordination is that, in the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or similar proceeding involving a non-guarantor subsidiary, the assets of that subsidiary cannot be used to pay the holders of the Notes until all other claims against that subsidiary, including trade payables, have been fully paid. As of June 30, 2010, the aggregate total assets (based on book value) of our non-guarantor subsidiaries were $239.0 million, representing approximately 17.6% of our total assets. In addition, 21.0% of our total liabilities were attributable to our non-guarantor subsidiaries as of June 30, 2010. For fiscal 2010, 28.9% of our net sales was attributable to our non-guarantor subsidiaries. For fiscal 2010, our non-guarantor subsidiaries had income from continuing operations of $42.0 million. Our controlling equity holders may take actions that conflict with the interests of the holders of our debt. Substantially all of the voting power of our equity is held by the Sponsors. Accordingly, they control the power to elect our directors and officers, to appoint new management and to approve all actions requiring the approval of the holders of our equity, including adopting amendments to our constituent documents and approving mergers, acquisitions or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The directors have the authority, subject to the terms of our debt, to issue additional indebtedness or equity, implement equity repurchase programs, declare dividends and make other such decisions about our equity. In addition, the interests of our controlling equity holders could conflict with the interests of the holders of our debt. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of our controlling equity holders might conflict with the interests of our debt holders. Our controlling equity holders also may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to the holders of our debt. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 38 Table of Contents 