Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and operating results. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results and condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you invest in CTS, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that are highlighted below are not the only ones that we face. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be negatively affected. Continuing global economic uncertainty and a constricted credit market may affect our results of operations and our ability to obtain capital. The global economy is in poor condition. Markets have experienced increased volatility and future business conditions are uncertain. During the past year, we have experienced stock price volatility. In addition, many of our customers, particularly those served by our Components and Sensors segment, have experienced rapid deterioration in demand for their products. As a result, demand for our products has decreased and customers have delayed delivery dates into the future. Credit difficulties and economic contraction have especially affected our automotive customers, who have in quick succession been exposed to an abrupt shift in demand for smaller vehicles, a precipitous decline in overall vehicle sales, declining stock prices, and the unavailability of credit to fund ongoing capital needs and facilitate consumers’ vehicle purchases. If the current conditions continue, reduced demand for our products may cause an excess of manufacturing capacity and staffing costs, reducing gross margins and operating earnings until reductions are made to meet new demand levels. In the event a major automotive customer, or any large customer, were to become insolvent, contracts may be canceled and we may not be paid in full or at all for products already delivered. Our business, financial condition and operating earnings may be materially and adversely affected by such events. In the event we need capital in excess of the limits of our existing credit facility, credit may be difficult to obtain or unreasonably expensive due to the current state of the markets. The unavailability of reasonably priced credit may affect our ability to make strategic acquisitions, finance operations, or otherwise operate our business. Further, tight credit markets may require us to employ other means to raise capital, such as the issuance of debt, the sale of equity, or the suspension of payment of dividends to shareholders. Continuing losses in the stock market could negatively impact pension asset returns and ultimately cash flow due to possible required contributions in the future. We make a number of assumptions relating to our pension plans in order to measure the financial position of the plans and the net periodic benefit cost. The most significant assumptions relate to the discount rate, the expected long term return on plan assets and the rate of future compensation increase. If these assumptions prove to be significantly different then we may need to record additional expense relating to the pension plans which could have a material effect on our results of operations and could require cash contributions to fund future pension payments. Because we currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers, any decrease in orders from these customers could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on a small number of customers for a large portion of our business, and changes in the level of our customers’ orders have, in the past, had a significant impact on our results of operations. Our 15 largest customers represent a substantial portion of our sales, approximately 53% of net sales in 2008, 59% of net sales in 2007, and 61% of net sales in 2006. Our largest customer is Hewlett-Packard Company, which represented approximately 11% of our net sales in 2008. If a major customer significantly cancels, delays or reduces the amount of business it does with us, there could be an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Such an adverse effect would likely be material if one of our largest customers significantly reduces its amount of business. Significant pricing and margin pressures exerted by a key customer could also materially adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable from sales to our major customers. If one or more of our largest customers were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay or were to delay payment for services, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Negative or unexpected tax consequences could adversely affect our results of operations. Adverse changes in the underlying profitability and financial outlook of our operations in several jurisdictions could lead to changes in our valuation allowances against deferred tax assets and other tax accruals that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Several countries in which we are located allow for tax incentives to attract and retain business. These tax incentives expire over various periods and are subject to certain conditions with which we expect to comply. Our taxes could increase if certain tax incentives are not renewed upon expiration, or tax rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. In addition, further acquisitions or divestitures may cause our effective tax rate to increase. We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. However, our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law, which may have retroactive effect. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may require us to pay taxes or make payments in lieu of taxes. 7 Table of Contents We are subject to intense competition in the EMS industry. We compete against many providers of electronics manufacturing services. Some of our competitors have substantially greater manufacturing and financial resources and in some cases have more geographically diversified international operations than we do. Our competitors, such as Benchmark Electronics, Inc., and Sanmina-SCI Corporation, include both large global EMS providers and smaller EMS companies that often have a regional, product, service or industry specific focus. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and future OEM customers, which may elect to manufacture their own products internally rather than outsource the manufacturing to EMS providers. In addition, we could face competition in the future from other large global EMS providers, such as Celestica, Inc., Flextronics International Ltd. and Jabil Circuit, Inc., which currently provide services to some of our largest customers for different products, as well as competition from smaller EMS companies such as Plexus Corp. and LaBarge, Inc. We may be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures, particularly those with significant offshore facilities located where labor and other costs are lower. Competition may intensify further if more companies enter the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete effectively could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to compete effectively against competitors in our Components and Sensors segment. Our Components and Sensors segment operates in highly competitive industries that are characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete against many domestic and foreign companies, some of which have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. If any customer becomes dissatisfied with our prices, quality or timeliness of delivery, among other things, it could award future business or even move existing business to our competitors. Moreover, some of our customers could choose to manufacture and develop particular products themselves rather than purchase them from us. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced profit margins and loss of market share, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. These developments may materially adversely affect our ability to compete against these competitors. We cannot assure you that our products will continue to compete successfully with our competitors’ products, including OEMs, many of which are significantly larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources. We may be unable to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make some of our products or processes obsolete before we realize a return on our investment. The technologies relating to some of our products have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, rapid and significant changes. Specifically, end markets for electronic components and assemblies are characterized by technological change, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer requirements and emerging industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable before we can recover any or all of our research, development and commercialization expenses on capital investments. Furthermore, the life cycles of our products and the products we manufacture for others vary, may change and are difficult to estimate. We cannot provide assurance that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or product enhancements or that our new products or product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and market new products or product enhancements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our customers have canceled, and may in the future cancel, their orders, change production quantities or locations or delay production. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and have often experienced reduced lead times in customer orders. Customers cancel their orders, change production quantities and delay production for a number of reasons. Uncertain economic and geopolitical conditions have resulted, and may continue to result, in some of our customers delaying the delivery of some of the products we manufacture for them and placing purchase orders for lower volumes of products than previously anticipated. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers have harmed, and may continue to harm, our results of operations by reducing the volumes of products we manufacture, as well as by causing a delay in the recovery of our expenditures for inventory in preparation for customer orders and lower asset utilization resulting in lower gross margins. In addition, customers may require that manufacturing of their products be transitioned from one facility to another to achieve cost and other objectives. Such transfers may result in inefficiencies and costs due to resulting excess capacity and overhead at one facility and capacity constraints and the inability to fulfill all orders at another. In addition, we make significant decisions, including determining the levels of orders that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs and other resource requirements, based on our estimates of customer requirements. The short-term nature of our customers’ commitments and the changes in demand for their products reduce our ability to estimate accurately future customer requirements. This makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of our manufacturing capacity. Anticipated orders may not materialize and delivery schedules may be deferred as a result of changes in demand for our products or our customers’ products. We often increase staffing and capacity, and incur other expenses to meet the anticipated demand of our customers, which cause reductions in our gross margins if customer orders are delayed or canceled. On occasion, customers require rapid increases in production, which may stress our resources and reduce margins. We may not have sufficient capacity at any given time to meet our customers’ demands. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are relatively fixed over the short term, a reduction in customer demand harms our gross margin and operating income until such time as adjustments can be made to activity or operating levels and structural costs. 8 Table of Contents We sell products to customers in cyclical industries, which are subject to significant downturns that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We sell products to customers in cyclical industries, which have experienced economic and industry downturns. These markets for our electronic components and sensors and EMS products have softened in the past and may again soften in the future. We may face reduced end-customer demand, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, changes in our revenue mix and other factors that could adversely affect our results of operations in the near term. We cannot predict whether we will achieve profitability in future periods. Because we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers in the automotive, computer and communications industries, we are susceptible to trends and factors affecting those industries. Net sales to the automotive, computer and communications industries represent a substantial portion of our revenues. Factors negatively affecting these industries and the demand for products also negatively affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Any adverse occurrence, including industry slowdown, recession, political instability, costly or constraining regulations, armed hostilities, terrorism, excessive inflation, prolonged disruptions in one or more of our customers’ production schedules or labor disturbances, that results in significant decline in the volume of sales in these industries, or in an overall downturn in the business and operations of our customers in these industries, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, the automotive industry is generally highly unionized and some of our customers have, in the past, experienced labor disruptions. Furthermore, the automotive industry is highly cyclical in nature and sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, consumer preferences and interest rates. These concerns are particularly heightened during the current economic crisis. Consumer demand for automobiles has weakened precipitously, consequently affecting demand for the products we sell to automobile manufacturers and their suppliers. Further, some of our automotive customers are at risk financially and have appealed to governmental authorities for financial assistance. It is unknown at this time whether these automotive manufacturers will be given adequate financial assistance to sustain their ability to continue in business. The insolvency of one or more automotive manufacturers may result in the failure to receive payment in full for products sold and an abrupt cancellation in demand for certain products. Furthermore, it is unknown when credit markets may ease, and consumer demand for automobiles will rebound. Continued weakness in auto demand, the insolvency of automobile manufacturers or their suppliers, and continuing constriction of credit markets may negatively and materially affect our facility utilization, cost structure, financial condition, and operating results. Products we manufacture may contain design or manufacturing defects that could result in reduced demand for our products or services and liability claims against us. Despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts, defects may occur in the products we manufacture due to design or manufacturing errors or component failure. Product defects may result in delayed shipments and reduced demand for our products. We may be subject to increased costs due to warranty claims on defective products. Product defects may result in product liability claims against us where defects cause, or are alleged to cause, property damage, bodily injury or death. As we more deeply penetrate the medical device manufacturing market, the risk of exposure to products liability litigation increases. We may be required to participate in a recall involving products which are, or are alleged to be, defective. We carry insurance for certain legal matters involving product liability, however, we do not have coverage for all costs related to product defects and the costs of such claims, including costs of defense and settlement, may exceed our available coverage. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and operating results. We transact business in various foreign countries. We present our consolidated financial statements in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our revenues and expenditures are transacted in other currencies. As a result, we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currencies. We have currency exposure arising from both sales and purchases denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Volatility in the exchange rates between the foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Furthermore, to the extent we sell our products in foreign markets, currency fluctuations may result in our products becoming too expensive for foreign customers. Our operating results vary significantly from period to period. We experience fluctuations in our operating results. Some of the principal factors that contribute to these fluctuations are: changes in demand for our products; our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes, costs and timing of our component purchases so that components are available when needed for production, while mitigating the risks of purchasing inventory in excess of immediate production needs; the degree to which we are able to utilize our available manufacturing capacity; changes in the cost and availability of components, which often occur in the electronics manufacturing industry and which affect our margins and our ability to meet delivery schedules; general economic and served industry conditions; local conditions and events that may affect our production volumes, such as labor conditions and political instability. In addition, due to the significant differences in the operating income margins in our two reporting segments, the mix of sales between our Components and Sensors segment and our EMS segment affect our operating results from period to period. 9 Table of Contents We face risks relating to our international operations. Because we have significant international operations, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by economic, political, health, regulatory and other factors existing in foreign countries in which we operate. Our international operations are subject to inherent risks, which may materially adversely affect us, including: political and economic instability in countries in which our products are manufactured; expropriation or the imposition of government controls; changes in government regulations; export license requirements; trade restrictions; earnings expatriation restrictions; exposure to different legal standards; less favorable intellectual property laws; health conditions and standards; currency controls; fluctuations in exchange rates; increases in the duties and taxes we pay; high levels of inflation or deflation; greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; limitations on insurance coverage against geopolitical risks, natural disasters and business operations; communication among and management of international operations. In addition, these same factors may also place us at a competitive disadvantage to some of our foreign competitors. Furthermore, because a significant portion of our products are manufactured in Asia, including China, Singapore, Thailand and Taiwan, any conflict or uncertainty in these countries, including public health or safety concerns, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may restructure our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In September 2008, we initiated certain restructuring actions to transfer and consolidate certain operations to further improve its cost structure. These actions resulted in the elimination of approximately 400 positions and the write-off of certain leasehold improvements during the second half of 2008. These actions were substantially complete in December 2008, with all expected charges recorded. We may incur restructuring and impairment charges in the future if circumstances warrant. If we restructure our operations in the future and are unsuccessful in implementing restructuring plans, we may experience disruptions in our operations and higher ongoing costs, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may explore acquisitions that complement or expand our business as well as divestitures of various business operations. We may not be able to complete these transactions and these transactions, if executed, may pose significant risks and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We intend to explore opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or product lines or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may have difficulty finding these opportunities or, if we do identify these opportunities, we may not be able to complete the transactions for reasons including a failure to secure financing. Any transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; difficulties managing and integrating operations in geographically dispersed locations; increases in our expenses and working capital requirements, which reduce our return on invested capital; exposure to unanticipated liabilities of acquired companies; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage our newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. In addition, future acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of additional debt. These and other factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability at acquired operations or realize other anticipated benefits of an acquisition, and could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have in the past, and may in the future, consider divesting certain business operations. Divestitures may involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention, significant costs and expenses, the loss of customer relationships and cash flow, and the disruption of operations in the affected business. Failure to timely complete or consummate a divestiture may negatively affect valuation of the affected business or result in restructuring charges. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or we infringe, or are alleged to infringe, on another person’s intellectual property, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. The success of our business depends, in part, upon our ability to protect trade secrets, copyrights and patents, obtain or license patents and operate without infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyrights, patents, nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights in our products and technology. The steps taken by us in this regard may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Although we continue to evaluate and implement protective measures, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights could diminish or eliminate the competitive advantages that we derive from our technology, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. 10 Table of Contents We believe that patents will continue to play an important role in our business. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing patents for claims in any pending patent application or that any issued patent will provide us with any competitive advantage. We also cannot provide assurance that the patents will not be challenged by third parties or that the patents of others will not materially adversely affect our ability to do business. We may become involved in litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property or because others may allege that we infringed on their intellectual property. These claims and any resulting lawsuit could subject us to liability for damages and invalidate our intellectual property rights. If an infringement claim is successfully asserted by a holder of intellectual property rights, we may be required to cease marketing or selling certain products, pay a penalty for past infringement and spend significant time and money to develop a non-infringing product or process or to obtain licenses for the technology, process or information from the holder. We may not be successful in the development of a non-infringing alternative, or licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in which case we may lose sales and profits. In addition, any litigation could be lengthy and costly and could materially adversely affect us even if we are successful in the litigation. We may experience shortages and increased costs of raw material and required electronic components. In the past, from time to time, there have been shortages in certain raw materials used in the manufacture of our components and sensors and certain electronic components purchased by us and incorporated into assemblies and subassemblies. Unanticipated raw material or electronic component shortages may prevent us from making scheduled shipments to customers. Our inability to make scheduled shipments could cause us to experience a shortfall in revenue, increase our costs and adversely affect our relationship with affected customers and our reputation as a reliable service provider. We may be required to pay higher prices for raw materials or electronic components in short supply and order these raw materials or electronic components in greater quantities to compensate for variable delivery times. We may also be required to pay higher prices for raw materials or electronic components due to inflationary trends regardless of supply. As a result, raw material or electronic component shortages and price increases could adversely affect our operating results for a particular period due to the resulting revenue shortfall and increased costs. Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract key management and other personnel, could materially affect our business. We depend on our senior executive officers and other key personnel to run our business. We do not have long-term retention contracts with our key personnel. The loss of any of these officers or other key personnel could adversely affect our operations. Competition for qualified employees among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is at times intense, and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to conduct research activities successfully and develop marketable products. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations that expose us to potential financial liability. Our operations are regulated by a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Compliance with environmental laws is a major consideration for us because we use hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. If we violate environmental laws or regulations, we could be held liable for substantial fines, damages, and costs of remedial actions. Our environmental permits could also be revoked or modified, which could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, thereby materially adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. Environmental laws and requirements have generally become more stringent over time and could continue to do so, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, which also could materially affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, because we are a generator of hazardous wastes, even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws and requirements, we may be subject to financial exposure for costs, including costs of investigation and any remediation, associated with contaminated sites at which hazardous substances from our operations have been stored, treated or disposed of. We may also be subject to exposure for such costs at sites that we currently own or operate or formerly owned or operated. Such exposure may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or even for the entire contamination. We have been notified by the Environmental Protection Agency, state environmental agencies and, in some cases, generator groups that we are or may be a potentially responsible party regarding hazardous substances at several sites not owned or operated by us, as well as several sites that we own. Although we estimate our potential liability with respect to environmental violations or alleged violations and other environmental liabilities and reserves for such matters, we cannot assure you that our reserves will be sufficient to cover the actual costs that we incur as a result of these matters. We also cannot assure you that additional contamination will not be found in the future, either at sites currently known to us or at other sites. Any liability we may have for such matters could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial health. As of December 31, 2008, our debt balance was $80.5 million, consisting of $32.5 million of 2.125% convertible senior subordinated notes and $48.0 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The level of our indebtedness could, among other things: increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions, including recessions; require us to use cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other expenses; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness; limit our ability to borrow additional funds that may be needed to operate and expand our business. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our convertible subordinated notes contain provisions that could materially restrict our business. Our credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: dispose of assets; incur certain additional debt; repay other debt or amend subordinated debt instruments; create liens on assets; make investments, loans or advances; make acquisitions or engage in mergers or consolidations; make capital expenditures; and engage in certain transactions with our subsidiaries and affiliates. Under our credit facility, we are required to meet certain financial ratios. In addition, the indenture governing our 2.125% convertible senior subordinated notes provides for an adjustment of the conversion rate if we pay dividends over a certain amount or make other distributions on capital stock and limits our ability to engage in mergers or consolidations. The restrictions contained in our credit facility and in the indenture governing our convertible subordinated notes could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or could otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that could be in our interests. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, it could result in an event of default under our credit facility, the indenture governing our convertible subordinated notes, or documents governing any other existing or future indebtedness. A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of our indebtedness. In addition, our lenders could terminate their commitments to make further extensions of credit under our credit facility. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. Ineffective internal controls over financial reporting may harm our business in the future. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“the Act”). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 