Item 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are some of the factors we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently see as immaterial, may also harm our business. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any such additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes, and other public filings. We have restated our prior consolidated financial statements, which may lead to additional risks and uncertainties, including shareholder litigation. As discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II — Item 8 of this report, we have restated our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended September 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and for the quarterly periods ended December 31, 2009 through March 31, 2012. The determination to restate these consolidated financial statements and the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements was made by our Audit Committee upon management’s recommendation following the identification of errors related to our method of recognizing revenues on certain contracts. As a result of these events, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement. If litigation did occur, we may incur additional substantial defense costs regardless of their outcome. Likewise, such events might cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. 14 We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for revenue on certain types of contracts. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address these material weaknesses. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could lead to substantial additional costs for accounting and legal fees and shareholder litigation. We depend on government contracts for substantially all of our revenues and the loss of government contracts or a delay or decline in funding of existing or future government contracts could adversely affect our sales and cash flows and our ability to fund our growth. Our revenues from contracts, directly or indirectly, with foreign and United States, state, regional and local governmental agencies represented more than 99% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2012. Although these various government agencies are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, many of our various government customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. As a result of the concentration of business with governmental agencies, we are vulnerable to adverse changes in our revenues, income and cash flows if a significant number of our government contracts, subcontracts or prospects are delayed or canceled for budgetary or other reasons. The factors that could cause us to lose these contracts or could otherwise materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations include: · re-allocation of government resources as the result of actual or threatened terrorism or hostile activities or for other reasons; · budget constraints affecting government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies such as U.S. or foreign defense and transit agencies and regional transit agencies, and changes in fiscal policies or a reduction of available funding; · disruptions in our customers’ ability to access funding from capital markets; · curtailment of government’s use of outsourced service providers; · the adoption of new laws or regulations pertaining to government procurement; · government appropriations delays or blanket reductions in departmental budgets, such as which will automatically take effect if Congress fails to act on budget reduction plans by the end of 2012; · suspension or prohibition from contracting with the government or any significant agency with which we conduct business; · impairment of our reputation or relationships with any significant government agency with which we conduct business; · impairment of our ability to provide third-party guarantees and letters of credit; and · delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. 15 Government spending priorities may change in a manner adverse to our businesses. In the past, our businesses have been adversely affected by significant changes in government spending during periods of declining budgets. A significant decline in overall spending, or the decision not to exercise options to renew contracts, or the loss of or substantial decline in spending on a large program in which we participate could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. As an example, the U.S. defense and national security budgets in general, and spending in specific agencies with which we work, such as the DOD, have declined from time to time for extended periods, resulting in program delays, program cancellations and a slowing of new program starts. Although spending on defense-related programs by the U.S. government has increased in recent years, future levels of expenditures and authorizations for those programs may decrease, remain constant or shift to programs in areas where we do not currently provide products or services. Even though our contract periods of performance for a program may exceed one year, Congress must usually approve funds for a given program each fiscal year and may significantly reduce funding of a program in a particular year. Significant reductions in these appropriations or the amount of new defense contracts awarded may affect our ability to complete contracts, obtain new work and grow our business. Congress does not always enact spending bills by the beginning of the new fiscal year. Such delays leave the affected agencies under-funded which delays their ability to contract. Future delays and uncertainties in funding could impose additional business risks on us. In addition, the DOD has recently increased its emphasis on awarding contracts to small businesses and has decreased the period of performance of some contracts, which increases our bid and proposal costs. Sequestration may adversely affect our businesses which are dependent on federal government funding. Pursuant to a law passed in August 2011, unless the Administration and Congress reach an agreement on spending cuts and increased revenues for the federal government by January 1, 2013, there will be deep and automatic cuts in defense budgets and other non-defense budgets. It is unknown what programs will be cut, over what time period and by what amount. Some programs may be cancelled in their entirety. All of our U.S. defense contracts are at risk of being cut or terminated. Our domestic transportation contracts could be materially harmed if transit agencies do not receive expected federal funds and are required to curtail their plans to expand or upgrade their fare collection systems. Our contracts with government agencies may be terminated or modified prior to completion, which could adversely affect our business. Government contracts typically contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government agencies rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including providing the government agency with the ability to unilaterally: · terminate our existing contracts; · reduce the value of our existing contracts; · modify some of the terms and conditions in our existing contracts; · suspend or permanently prohibit us from doing business with the government or with any specific government agency; · control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; · cancel or delay existing multiyear contracts and related orders if the necessary funds for contract performance for any subsequent year are not appropriated; · decline to exercise an option to extend an existing multiyear contract; and · claim rights in technologies and systems invented, developed or produced by us. Most U.S. government agencies and some other agencies with which we contract can terminate their contracts with us for convenience, and in that event we generally may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. If an agency 16 terminates a contract with us for default, we are denied any recovery and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the agency in procuring undelivered items from an alternative source. We may receive show-cause or cure notices under contracts that, if not addressed to the agency’s satisfaction, could give the agency the right to terminate those contracts for default or to cease procuring our services under those contracts. In the event that any of our contracts were to be terminated or adversely modified, there may be significant adverse effects on our revenues, operating costs and income that would not be recoverable. Changes in future business or other market conditions could cause business investments and/or recorded goodwill or other long-term assets to become impaired, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. As part of our strategy, we will, from time to time, acquire a minority or majority interest in a business. These investments are made upon careful analysis and due diligence procedures designed to achieve a desired return or strategic objective. These procedures often involve certain assumptions and judgment in determining acquisition price. After acquisition, unforeseen issues could arise which adversely affect the anticipated returns or which are otherwise not recoverable as an adjustment to the purchase price. Even after careful integration efforts, actual operating results may vary significantly from initial estimates. We evaluate our recorded goodwill balances for potential impairment annually as of July 1, or when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including recorded goodwill. We have not yet had a case where the carrying value exceeded the fair value; however, if it did, impairment would be measured by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill to its carrying value, and any impairment determined would be recorded in the current period, which could result in substantial losses and write-downs that would reduce our results of operations. For more information on accounting policies we have in place for impairment of goodwill, see our discussion under “Valuation of Goodwill” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Failure to retain existing contracts or win new contracts under competitive bidding processes may adversely affect our revenue. We obtain most of our contracts through a competitive bidding process, and substantially all of the business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be subject to a competitive bidding process. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: · the need to compete against companies or teams of companies with more financial and marketing resources and more experience in bidding on and performing major contracts than we have; · the need to compete against companies or teams of companies that may be long-term, entrenched incumbents for a particular contract for which we are competing and that have, as a result, greater domain expertise and better customer relations; · the need to compete to retain existing contracts that have in the past been awarded to us on a sole-source basis or as to which we have been incumbent for a long time; · the U.S. government’s increased emphasis on awarding contracts to small businesses could preclude us from bidding on certain work or reduce the scope of work we can bid as a prime contractor; · the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge new contract awards; · the need to bid on some programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in higher research and development expenditures, unforeseen technological difficulties, or increased costs which lower our profitability; · the substantial cost and managerial time and effort, including design, development and marketing activities, necessary to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; · the need to develop, introduce and implement new and enhanced solutions to our customers’ needs; · the need to locate and contract with teaming partners and subcontractors; and · the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to perform any fixed-price contract that we are awarded. We may not be afforded the opportunity in the future to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the agency decides to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through the competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we win a contract, and upon expiration the customer requires further services of the type provided by the contract, there is frequently a competitive rebidding process and there can be no assurance that we will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract. As a result of the complexity and scheduling of contracting with government agencies, we occasionally incur costs before receiving contractual funding by the government agency. In some circumstances, we may not be able to recover these costs in whole or in part under subsequent contractual actions. If we are unable to consistently retain existing contracts or win new contract awards, our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 17 The U.S. government’s increased emphasis on awarding contracts to small businesses could increase the number of contracts we receive as a subcontractor to small businesses and decrease the amount of our revenues from such contracts. Some of these small businesses may not be financially sound, which could adversely affect our business. There has recently been an increased emphasis by the U.S. government on awarding contracts to small businesses which may preclude companies the size of ours from obtaining certain work, other than as a subcontractor to these small businesses. There are inherent risks in contracting with small companies that may not have the capability or financial resources to perform these contracts or administer them correctly. If a small business with which we have a subcontract fails to perform, fails to bill the government properly or fails financially, we may have difficulty receiving timely payments or may incur bad debt write-offs if the small business is unable or unwilling to pay us for work we perform. This could result in significant adverse effects on our revenues, operating costs and cash flows. Government audits of our contracts could result in a material charge to our earnings and have a negative effect on our cash position following an audit adjustment. Many of our government contracts are subject to cost audits which may occur several years after the period to which the audit relates. If an audit identifies significant unallowable costs, we could incur a material charge to our earnings or reduction in our cash position. Our international business exposes us to additional risks, including exchange rate fluctuations, foreign tax and legal regulations and political or economic instability that could harm our operating results. Our international operations subject us to risks associated with operating in and selling products or services in foreign countries, including: · devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · changes in foreign laws that adversely affect our ability to sell our products or services or our ability to repatriate profits to the United States; · increases or impositions of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures to us; · increases in investment and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments in order to operate in the territory or own the subsidiary; · costs of compliance with local laws, including labor laws; · export control regulations and policies which govern our ability to supply foreign customers; · unfamiliar and unknown business practices and customs; · domestic and foreign government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements; · the complexity and necessity of using foreign representatives and consultants or being prohibited from such use; · the uncertainty of the ability of foreign customers to finance purchases; · imposition of tariffs or embargoes, export controls and other trade restrictions; · the difficulty of management and operation of an enterprise in various countries; and · economic and geopolitical developments and conditions, including international hostilities, acts of terrorism and governmental reactions, inflation, trade relationships and military and political alliances. Our foreign subsidiaries generally enter into contracts and make purchase commitments that are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly, we are exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates, which could have a significant impact on our results of operations. We have no control over the factors that generally affect this risk, such as economic, financial and political events and the supply of and demand for applicable currencies. While we use foreign exchange forward and option contracts to hedge significant contract sales and purchase commitments that are denominated in foreign currencies, our hedging strategy may not prevent us from incurring losses due to exchange fluctuations. 18 Our operating margins may decline under our fixed-price contracts if we fail to accurately estimate the time and resources necessary to satisfy our obligations. Approximately 72% of our revenues in 2012 were from fixed-price contracts under which we bear the risk of cost overruns. Our profits are adversely affected if our costs under these contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract. Sometimes we are required to fix the price for a contract before the project specifications are finalized, which increases the risk that we will incorrectly price these contracts. The complexity of many of our engagements makes accurately estimating the time and resources required more difficult. We may be liable for civil or criminal penalties under a variety of complex laws and regulations, and changes in governmental regulations could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our businesses must comply with and are affected by various government regulations that impact our operating costs, profit margins and our internal organization and operation of our businesses. These regulations affect how we do business and, in some instances, impose added costs. Any changes in applicable laws could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Any material failure to comply with applicable laws could result in contract termination, price or fee reductions or suspension or debarment from contracting. The more significant regulations include: · the Federal Acquisition Regulations and all department and agency supplements, which comprehensively regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts; · the Truth in Negotiations Act and implementing regulations, which require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; · the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which control the export and import of defense related articles and services on the United States Munitions Control List; · laws, regulations and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data; · regulations of most state and regional agencies and foreign governments similar to those described above; · the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act; · the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd Frank Act; and · tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in other countries in which we operate. Business disruptions could seriously affect us. Our business may be affected by disruptions including, but not limited to: threats to physical security of our facilities and employees, including senior executives; terrorist acts; information technology attacks or failures; damaging weather or other acts of nature; and pandemics or other public health crises. The costs related to these events may not be fully mitigated by insurance or other means. Disruptions could affect our internal operations or services provided to customers, and could impact our sales, increase our expenses, or adversely affect our reputation or our stock price. Our failure to identify, attract and retain qualified technical and management personnel could adversely affect our existing businesses. We may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified technical personnel, including engineers, computer programmers and personnel with security clearances required for classified work, or management personnel to supervise such activities that are necessary for maintaining and growing our existing businesses. Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions. As a U.S. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises. We routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers, subcontractors and joint venture partners. We may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement. Prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. Although we work cooperatively with our customers and our suppliers, subcontractors, and joint venture partners to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, loss of competitive advantages derived from our R&D efforts, early obsolescence of our products and services, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price. 19 We may incur significant costs in protecting our intellectual property which could adversely affect our profit margins. Our inability to protect our patents and proprietary rights could adversely affect our businesses’ prospects and competitive positions. We seek to protect proprietary technology and inventions through patents and other proprietary-right protection. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we are unable to obtain or maintain these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. In addition, we may incur significant expense both in protecting our intellectual property and in defending or assessing claims with respect to intellectual property owned by others. We also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and know-how, including the use of confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and advisors. These agreements may be breached and remedies for a breach may not be sufficient to compensate us for damages incurred. We generally control and limit access to our product documentation and other proprietary information. Other parties may independently develop our know-how or otherwise obtain access to our technology. We compete primarily for government contracts against many companies that are larger, better capitalized and better known than us. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Many of our competitors are larger, better financed and better known companies who may compete more effectively than we can. In order to remain competitive, we must keep our capabilities technically advanced and compete on price and on value added to our customers. Our ability to compete may be adversely affected by limits on our capital resources and our ability to invest in maintaining and expanding our market share. The terms of our financing arrangements may restrict our financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to invest in new business opportunities. We currently have unsecured borrowing arrangements. The terms of these borrowing arrangements include provisions that limit our levels of debt and require minimum levels of net worth and coverage of fixed charges. We may incur future obligations that would subject us to additional covenants that affect our financial and operational flexibility or subject us to different events of default. Our current $200 million unsecured revolving credit facility expires in May 2017. As of September 30, 2012, there were no borrowings under this revolving facility and $23.5 million of outstanding letters of credit issued under this facility. Our revenues could be less than expected if we are not able to deliver services or products as scheduled due to disruptions in supply. Since our internal manufacturing capacity is limited, we use contract manufacturers. While we use care in selecting our manufacturers, we have less control over the reliability of supply, quality and price of products or components than if we manufactured them. In some cases, we obtain products from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Consequently, we risk disruptions in our supply of key products and components if our suppliers fail or are unable to perform because of strikes, natural disasters, financial condition or other factors. Any material supply disruptions could adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations under our contracts and could result in cancellation of contracts or purchase orders, penalties, delays in realizing revenues, payment delays, as well as adversely affect our ongoing product cost structure. Failure to perform by our subcontractors could materially and adversely affect our contract performance and our ability to obtain future business. Our performance of contracts often involves subcontractors, upon which we rely to complete delivery of products or services to our customers. We may have disputes with subcontractors. A failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily deliver products or services can adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor. Any subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in the customer terminating our contract for default, which could expose us to liability for excess costs of reprocurement by the customer and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for other contracts. 20 We may acquire other companies, which could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive to our business. Part of our strategy involves the acquisition of other companies. We may not be able to integrate acquired entities successfully without substantial expense, delay or operational or financial problems. The acquisition and integration of new businesses involves risk. The integration of acquired businesses may be costly and may adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. As a result: · we may need to divert management resources to integration, which may adversely affect our ability to pursue other more profitable activities; · integration may be difficult as a result of the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures; · we may not be able to eliminate redundant costs anticipated at the time we select acquisition candidates; and · one or more of our acquisition candidates may have unexpected liabilities, fraud risk, or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through our due diligence procedures prior to the acquisition. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. Our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose taxes based on income and other criteria. Changes in domestic or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower tax rates assessed, changes in the taxability of certain revenues or activities, or changes in the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our tax expense and profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our tax expense. Our results of operations have historically fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our revenues are affected by factors such as the unpredictability of contract awards due to the long procurement process for most of our products and services, the potential fluctuation of governmental agency budgets, the time it takes for the new markets we target to develop and for us to develop and provide products and services for those markets, competition and general economic conditions. Our contract type/product mix and unit volume, our ability to keep expenses within budget and our pricing affect our operating margins. Significant growth in costs to complete our contracts may adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. These factors and other risk factors described herein may adversely affect our results of operations and cause our financial results to fluctuate significantly on a quarterly or annual basis. Consequently, we do not believe that comparison of our results of operations from period to period is necessarily meaningful or predictive of our likely future results of operations. In some future financial period our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If so, the market price of our securities may decline significantly. 21 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This report, including the documents that we incorporate by reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are subject to the “safe harbor” created by those sections. Any statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions, future events or our future financial and/or operating performance are not historical and may be forward-looking. These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of words or phrases such as “may”, “will”, “anticipate”, “estimate”, “plan”, “project”, “continuing”, “ongoing”, “expect”, “believe”, “intend”, “predict”, “potential”, “opportunity” and similar words or phrases or the negatives of these words or phrases. These statements involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties, including those discussed in “Risk Factors” and elsewhere throughout this filing and in the documents incorporated by reference into this filing that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in these statements. Because the risk factors referred to above could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf, you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. In addition, past financial and/or operating performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance and you should not use our historical performance to anticipate results or future period trends. Further, any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as required by law. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict which factors will arise. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. 22 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None 