1A Risk Factors Relating to Our Business 14 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 21 2 Properties 21 3 Legal Proceedings 21 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 21 II 5 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 22 6 Selected Financial Data 24 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 25 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 59 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 61 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 61 9A Controls and Procedures 61 9B Other Information 62 III 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 63 11 Executive Compensation 64 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 64 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 64 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 65 IV 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 65 Index to Financial Statements 65 Signatures 128 Exhibit Index 129 2 Cummins Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries are hereinafter sometimes referred to as "Cummins," "the Company," "the registrant," "we," "our," or "us." CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Certain parts of this annual report contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the industries in which we operate and management's beliefs and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are generally accompanied by words, such as "anticipates," "expects," "forecasts," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates" or similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions, which we refer to as "future factors," which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Future factors that could cause our results to differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements are discussed below. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Future factors that could affect the outcome of forward-looking statements include the following: •price and product competition by foreign and domestic competitors, including new entrants; •rapid technological developments of diesel engines; •the ability to continue to introduce competitive new products in a timely, cost-effective manner; •the sales mix of products; •the continued achievement of lower costs and expenses; •domestic and foreign governmental and public policy changes, including environmental regulations; •protection and validity of patent and other intellectual property rights; •reliance on large customers; •technological, implementation and cost/financial risks in increasing use of large, multi-year contracts; •the cyclical nature of some of our markets; •the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings; •continued availability of financing, financial instruments and financial resources in the amounts, at the times and on the terms required to support our future business; •the overall stability of global economic markets and conditions; and •other risk factors described in Item 1A of this report under the caption "Risk Factors Relating to Our Business." In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general domestic and international economic conditions, including the price of crude oil (diesel fuel), interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, commodity prices and other future factors. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business OVERVIEW Cummins Inc. was founded in 1919 in Columbus, Indiana as one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel and natural gas engines, electric power generation systems and engine-related component products, including filtration and exhaust aftertreatment, fuel systems, controls and air handling systems. We sell our products to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), distributors and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a network of more than 500 company-owned and independent distributor locations and approximately 5,200 dealer locations in more than 190 countries and territories. OPERATING SEGMENTS We have four complementary operating segments that share technology, customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network to gain a competitive advantage in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. Financial information about our operating segments, including geographic information, is incorporated by reference from Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Engine Segment In 2008, our Engine segment sales accounted for 50 percent of our net sales and 41 percent of our earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), both measured before intersegment eliminations. Our Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas- powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy- and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, agricultural, construction, mining, marine, oil and gas, rail and governmental equipment markets. We offer a wide variety of engine products with displacement from 1.4 to 91 liters and horsepower ranging from 31 to 3,500. In addition, we provide a full range of new parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, through our extensive distribution network. The principal customers of our heavy- and medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers, such as PACCAR, International Truck and Engine Corporation (Navistar International Corporation), Volvo Trucks North America, Daimler Trucks North America (formerly Freightliner LLC), Ford and Volkswagen AG. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction, agricultural and marine equipment, including Case New Holland, Komatsu, Hitachi, Ingersoll Rand, Brunswick and Terex. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Chrysler and manufacturers of RVs. In the markets served by our Engine segment, we compete with independent engine manufacturers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products. Our primary competitors in North America are Caterpillar, Inc., Detroit Diesel Corporation, Volvo Powertrain and International Truck and Engine Corporation (Engine Division). Our primary competitors in international markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market. Other engine manufacturers in international markets include Mercedes Benz, Volvo, Renault Vehicules Industriels, Scania, Weichai Power Co. Ltd., Nissan Diesel Motor Co., Ltd., Yanmar and Deutz. 4 Table of Contents Our Engine segment organizes its engine, parts and service businesses around the following end-user markets: Heavy-Duty Truck We manufacture a complete line of diesel engines that range from 310 horsepower to 600 horsepower serving the worldwide heavy-duty truck market. We offer the ISM and ISX engines and in Australia, the Signature 620 series engines. Most major heavy-duty truck manufacturers in North America offer our diesel engines as standard or optional power. As reported by Wards Automotive (Wards) for 2008, our market share of the Group II engine market for NAFTA Class 8 heavy-duty trucks was 45 percent. As reported by the National Association of Truck, Bus and Tractor Producers (ANPACT) in Mexico and the National Automotive Manufacturers Association South Africa (NAMASA), we are the market leaders in Mexico and South Africa, respectively. Our largest customer for heavy-duty truck engines in 2008 was PACCAR with sales representing almost 7 percent of consolidated net sales. We have long-term supply agreements with two key customers. We have a long-term agreement with Volvo Trucks North America, Inc. under which we act as its sole external engine supplier. We also have a long-term supply agreement with PACCAR covering our heavy-duty engine product line. These supply agreements provide long-term, stable pricing for engines and eliminate certain dealer and end-user discounts, in order to provide our customers with full responsibility for total vehicle cost and pricing. In addition, these agreements enable us to work more closely with our customers in joint engineering efforts earlier, delivering seamlessly integrated, dependable vehicles to the market. The joint sales and service efforts provide better customer support at reduced cost to our partners. Medium-Duty Truck and Bus We manufacture a product line of medium-duty diesel engines ranging from 200 horsepower to 400 horsepower serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide. We sell our ISB and ISC series engines and engine components to medium-duty truck manufacturers in North America, Asia, Europe and South America. In 2008, as reported by Wards our market share for diesel powered medium-duty trucks in the North American Class 7 medium-duty truck market grew to above 38 percent. We are the exclusive medium-duty engine provider for PACCAR worldwide and Ford in Brazil. As reported by American Public Transportation Association (APTA), through our joint venture with Westport Innovations Inc., we are the largest manufacturer of natural gas bus engines in the U.S. as well as a significant global provider of natural gas engines. We also offer our ISB, ISC and ISL diesel engines and their alternative fueled counterparts for school buses, transit buses and shuttle buses worldwide. Key markets include North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. Ford, Volkswagen AG, Daimler Trucks North America (formerly Freightliner LLC) and PACCAR are our major customers in this worldwide market. Light-Duty Automotive and RV We are the exclusive provider of diesel engines used by Chrysler in its Dodge Ram trucks. Our relationship with Chrysler extends nearly 20 years and in 2008 we shipped over 66,000 engines for use in Dodge Ram trucks. The 6.7-liter Dodge Ram Turbo Diesel engine offers best in class 650 lb-ft of torque and 350 horsepower. We have gained market share and are a leading manufacturer of diesel engines for use in the Class A motor home market. Based on the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA), we believe our market share is above 90 percent of the diesel engines in retail Class A motor home sales and that the diesel segment of the Class A motor home market now exceeds 50 percent, indicating a growing preference for diesel power for this application. 5 Table of Contents Industrial Our mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines power a wide variety of equipment in the construction, agricultural, mining, rail, government, oil and gas, power generation and commercial and recreational marine applications throughout the world. Our engine range extends from the A-series to the QSV91 allowing us to penetrate the light utility market with smaller engines up to the largest mining machines with our QSK60 and QSK78 engines and the QSV91 for power generation applications. Across these markets we have major customers in North America, South America, Europe, South Korea, Japan, China and the South Pacific. Power Generation Segment In 2008, sales from our power generation segment represented 20 percent of our net sales and 28 percent of our EBIT, both measured before intersegment eliminations. This operating segment is one of the most integrated providers of power solutions in the world, designing or manufacturing most of the components that make up power generation systems, including engines, controls, alternators, transfer switches and switchgear. This operating segment is a global provider of power generation systems, components and services for a diversified customer base by providing standby power, distributed generation power, as well as auxiliary power needs in specialty mobile applications. Standby power solutions are provided to customers who rely on uninterrupted sources of power to meet the needs of their customers. Distributed generation power solutions are provided to customers with less reliable electrical power infrastructures, typically in developing countries. In addition, our power solutions provide an alternative source of generating capacity, which is purchased by utilities, independent power producers and large power customers for use as prime or peaking power and is located close to its point of use. Mobile power provides a secondary source of power (other than drive power) for mobile applications. Our power generation products are marketed under two brands; Cummins Power Generation for the commercial products and projects and Cummins Onan for the consumer products. Both include diesel, natural gas, gasoline and alternative-fuel electrical generator sets for all market segments including commercial, telecommunications, data centers, office buildings, hospitals, factories, municipalities, utilities, universities, recreational vehicles, boats and homes. We are a worldwide leader in auxiliary generator sets for RVs, commercial vehicles and recreational marine applications. Our energy solutions business provides full-service power solutions for customers including generating equipment, long-term maintenance contracts and turnkey power solutions. We also sell reciprocating generator drive engines across a large power range to other generator set assemblers. Cummins Generator Technologies (CGT) is a leader in the alternator industry and supplies its products internally as well as to other generator set assemblers. CGT products are sold under the Stamford, AVK and Markon brands and range in output from 0.6kVA to 30,000 kVA. This operating segment continuously explores emerging technologies, such as fuel cells, wind and hybrid solutions and provides integrated power generation products utilizing technologies other than reciprocating engines. We use our own research and development capabilities as well as leverage business partnerships to develop cost-effective and environmentally sound power solutions. Our customer base for power generation products is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, the Middle East, the United Kingdom (U.K.) and Western Europe are four of our largest geographic markets outside of North America. This operating segment competes with a variety of engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers across the world. Caterpillar, Inc., Tognum (MTU) and Mitsubishi (MHI) remain our primary competitors, but we also compete with FG Wilson (Caterpillar group), Kohler, SDMO (Kohler 6 Table of Contents group), Generac and numerous regional generator set assemblers. CGT competes globally with Emerson Electric Co., Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others. Components Segment In 2008, our Components segment sales accounted for 18 percent of our net sales and 13 percent of our EBIT, both measured before intersegment eliminations. Our Components segment produces filters, fuel systems, aftertreatment systems, intake and exhaust systems and we believe we are the largest worldwide supplier of turbochargers for commercial diesel applications between 3.8 and 16 liter engines. This operating segment has four businesses: Cummins Filtration, Cummins Turbo Technologies, Cummins Fuel Systems and Cummins Emission Solutions. We manufacture filtration and exhaust systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty equipment and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial and passenger car applications. In addition, we develop aftertreatment and exhaust systems to help our customers meet increasingly stringent emissions standards and fuel systems which to date have primarily supplied our Engine segment and our partner Scania. We believe our filtration business is the world's leading supplier of filtration, exhaust, coolant and chemical products. We offer over 27,000 filtration products including air, coolant, fuel and hydraulic filters, antifreeze and coolant additives, catalysts, particulate filters, controllers and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealer/distributors and end-user markets. Our products are produced and sold in global markets, including North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Australia. Our filtration business also makes products for the automotive specialty filtration market and the industrial filtration market through our Kuss subsidiary. Our turbo technologies business designs, manufactures and markets turbochargers for commercial and light-duty diesel applications with manufacturing facilities in five countries and sales and distribution worldwide. Cummins Turbo Technologies provides critical technologies for engines to meet challenging performance requirements and worldwide emissions standards, including variable geometry turbochargers. We believe it is the market leader in turbochargers for heavy-duty applications in North America and one of the leaders in Europe. Our fuel systems business designs and manufactures new and replacement fuel systems primarily for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engine applications and also remanufactures fuel systems and electronics. In our Engine segment, Scania and Komatsu are the primary customers for our fuel systems business. Scania is our partner in two joint ventures within the fuel systems business. The Cummins-Scania High Pressure Injection, L.L.C. joint venture currently manufactures fuel systems used by Cummins and Scania while the Cummins-Scania XPI joint venture currently produces next generation fuel systems for medium-duty and heavy-duty engines. See further discussion of our joint ventures in the Joint Ventures, Alliances and Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries section. Cummins Emission Solutions (CES) business designs and manufactures aftertreatment and exhaust systems to help our customers meet increasingly stringent emissions standards. We believe we are the leading supplier of aftertreatment products for EPA 2007 emissions standards in North America and for Euro IV standards in Europe. CES expanded its international manufacturing capabilities with new manufacturing facilities leases signed in 2007 in Beijing, China and Sao Paulo, Brazil, intended for use on Cummins engines meeting Euro IV and Euro V emissions standards, with production beginning in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Customers of our Components segment generally include truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of our Engine segment, such as PACCAR, CNH Global N.V., International Truck and Engine, Volvo, Iveco and other manufacturers that use our filtration products in their product platforms. Components products are sold to truck manufacturers and OEMs for use on both Cummins engines and other proprietary engine lines. Our customer base for replacement filtration parts is highly fragmented and primarily consists of various end-users of on-highway and off-highway 7 Table of Contents vehicles and equipment. In addition, Components sells products to the Engine segment to complement its products and to the Distribution segment for sale to their customers. Our Components segment competes with other manufacturers of filtration, exhaust and fuel systems and turbochargers. Our primary competitors in these markets include Donaldson Company, Inc., Clarcor Inc., Mann+Hummel Group, Tokyo Roki Co., Ltd., Borg-Warner, Bosch, Tenneco and Honeywell International. Distribution Segment In 2008, Distribution segment sales accounted for 12 percent of our net sales and 18 percent of our EBIT, both measured before intersegment eliminations. Our Distribution segment consists of 18 company-owned and 18 joint venture distributors that distribute the full range of our products and services to end-users at approximately 300 locations in over 70 countries and territories. In North America, this network is mostly comprised of partially-owned distributors. Internationally, our network consists of independent, partially-owned and wholly-owned distributors. Through this network, our trained personnel provide parts and service to our customers, as well as full-service solutions, including maintenance contracts, engineering services and integrated products where we customize our products to cater to specific end-users. Our company-owned distributors are located in key markets, including India, China, Japan, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, South Africa, Brazil, North America and Russia. Our distributors also serve and develop dealers, predominantly OEM dealers, in their territories by providing technical support, tools, training, parts and product information. In addition to managing our investments in wholly-owned and partially-owned distributors, our Distribution segment is responsible for managing the performance and capabilities of our independent distributors. Our distributors collectively serve a highly diverse customer base with approximately 52 percent of their 2008 revenues being from the wholesale of new power equipment (engines and power generation equipment) and the remaining portion consisting of parts and service repairs. In 2008, we purchased a majority interest in three previously independent North American distributors and an equity interest in another North American distributor in order to increase our ownership interests in key portions of the distribution channel. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for detailed information regarding these purchases. Financial information about our wholly-owned distributors and distributors accounted for under the equity method are incorporated by reference from Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The distributors that we own or operate compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with, the companies that are listed above as competitors of the Engine, Power Generation or Components segments. These competitors vary by geographical location. JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES We have entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are either manufacturing or distribution entities. We also own a controlling interest in a non-wholly-owned manufacturing subsidiary. Distribution Entities Our distribution channel in North America includes 13 partially-owned entities. Our equity interests in these nonconsolidated entities range from 30 percent to 50 percent. While each distributor is a separate legal entity, the business of each is the same as that of our wholly-owned distributors based in other parts of the world. All of our distributors, irrespective of the legal structure, offer the 8 Table of Contents full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in their respective markets. See further discussion of distribution entities at Distribution segment section previously discussed. We also have an equity interest in four international distributors with interests ranging from 20 percent to 50 percent. Manufacturing Entities Manufacturing joint ventures are formed with customers and allow us to increase market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components Segment in the same manner as they supply our wholly-owned engine and power generation manufacturing facilities. Components segment joint ventures provide fuel system, filtration and turbocharger products that are used in our engines as well as some competitors' products. These joint ventures are all unconsolidated ventures, unless specifically noted below. •Cummins/Dongfeng Joint Ventures. Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture with Dongfeng Automotive Corporation, a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Company (Dongfeng), one of the largest medium-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces Cummins B, C and L Series four- to nine-liter mechanical engines, full-electronic diesel engines, with a power range from 100 to 370 horsepower, and natural gas engines. Shanghai Fleetguard Filter Co., Ltd. is a joint venture with Dongfeng that manufactures filtration and exhaust systems. The East Asia Technical center is a joint venture with DCEC that provides engineering and technical development services for the full range of Cummins products built in China. A series of projects are underway in the technical center, including the development of a new 13-liter engine platform for the Chinese heavy-duty truck market served by DCEC. The results of the East Asia Technical center are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. •Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. is a joint venture with Chongqing Heavy Duty Vehicle Group that manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China. •Tata Group Joint Venture. Tata Cummins Limited is a joint venture with Tata Motors Ltd., the largest automotive company in India and a member of the Tata group of companies. This joint venture manufactures the Cummins B Series engine in India for use in trucks manufactured by Tata Motors, as well as for various industrial and power generation applications. •Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine LLC. Cummins MerCruiser Diesel Marine LLC is a joint venture with Mercury Marine, a division of Brunswick Corporation, to develop, manufacture and sell recreational marine diesel products, including engines, sterndrive packages, inboard packages, instrument and controls, service systems and replacement and service parts and assemblies, complete integration systems and other related products. 9 Table of Contents •Cummins/Westport Joint Venture. Cummins Westport, Inc. is a joint venture with Westport Innovations Inc., located in British Columbia, Canada, which markets and sells automotive spark-ignited natural gas engines worldwide and also provides for joint technology projects between Westport and Cummins on low-emission technologies of mutual interest. •Cummins/Komatsu Arrangements. We have a broad relationship with Komatsu Ltd., including four joint ventures and numerous exclusive supply arrangements. Komatsu Cummins Engine Co., a joint venture in Japan, manufactures Cummins B Series engines. Cummins Komatsu Engine Corporation (CKEC), a joint venture in the U.S., builds high-horsepower Komatsu-designed engines. Industrial Power Alliance Ltd., a joint venture in Japan, designs the next generation of industrial engines. Komatsu Cummins Chile, our fourth joint venture with Komatsu Ltd., is a distributor in Chile. CKEC and its results are consolidated in our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003) Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities an interpretation of ARB No. 51 (FIN 46(R)). See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. •ZAO Cummins Kama. ZAO Cummins Kama is a joint venture with KAMAZ Inc., the largest vehicle manufacturer in Russia, to produce B Series engines. Engines manufactured by ZAO Cummins Kama are used in KAMAZ trucks and buses, as well as trucks, buses and agricultural equipment produced by other manufacturers in Russia, Belarus and the Ukraine. •Shaanxi/Cummins. Xian Cummins Engine Company (XCEC) is a joint venture with Shaanxi Heavy Vehicle Group Co. and Shaanxi Heavy Duty Truck Co., Ltd. in Xian, China, to manufacture the Cummins ISM heavy-duty diesel engine for use in Shaanxi trucks and for sale to outside customers. •Cummins/Scania Joint Ventures. Cummins-Scania High Pressure Injection, L.L.C. is a joint venture with Scania to produce fuel systems for heavy-duty diesel engines. We own 70 percent of this joint venture and its results are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Cummins-Scania XPI (XPI), a second joint venture with Scania, produces the next generation fuel systems for mid-range and heavy-duty on-highway truck engines. XPI is a 50/50 joint venture that builds upon other Cummins-Scania partnerships. In 2007, XPI began production of fuel systems that support our C- and L-Series engines. •Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Company. Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd., is a 50/50 joint venture with Beijing Foton Motor Co., Ltd. to produce two new families of Cummins light-duty, high performance diesel engines in Beijing beginning in late 2009. The engines will be used in light-duty commercial trucks, pickup trucks, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles. Certain types of marine, small construction equipment and industrial applications will also be served by this engine family. Non-Wholly-Owned Manufacturing Subsidiary We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in India. CIL produces mid-range, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engines, as 10 Table of Contents well as generators for the Indian and export markets. CIL also produces compressed natural gas spark-ignited engines licensed from the CWI joint venture. Financial information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Notes 1, 2 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In the event of a change of control of either party to these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies. SUPPLY We source our materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. We machine and assemble some of the components used in our engines and power generation units, including blocks, heads, turbochargers, rods, camshafts, crankshafts, filters, exhaust systems, alternators and fuel systems. We single source approximately 80 to 85 percent of the total types of parts in our product designs. We have long term agreements with critical suppliers who are the sole source for specific products or supply items. Although we elect to source a relatively high proportion of our total raw materials and component requirements from sole suppliers, we have established a process to annually review our sourcing strategies with a focus on the reduction of risk, which has led us to dual source critical components. We are also developing suppliers in many global or emerging markets to serve our businesses across the globe and provide alternative sources in the event of disruption from existing suppliers. PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks have been granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents, or trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is considered significant to our business. SEASONALITY While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal declines in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the majority of our products on a quarterly basis. However, our Power Generation segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to general declines in construction spending during this period and our Distribution segment normally experiences seasonal declines in first quarter business activity due to holiday periods in Asia and Australia. LARGEST CUSTOMERS We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them. We have long-term heavy-duty engine supply agreements with PACCAR and Volvo Trucks North America. We have mid-range supply agreements with PACCAR, as its exclusive engine supplier, as well as with Daimler Trucks North America (formerly Freightliner LLC), Ford and Volkswagen. We also have a supply agreement with Chrysler, primarily relating to sales of our ISB engine for use in Dodge Ram trucks. Collectively, our net sales to these six customers was less than 21 percent of consolidated net sales in 2008 and individually was less than 11 Table of Contents 8 percent of consolidated net sales to any single customer. These agreements contain standard purchase and sale agreement terms covering engine and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations. The basic nature of our agreements with OEM customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that assure the availability of our products to each customer through the duration of the respective agreements. Agreements with most OEMs contain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of control or insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party. BACKLOG Demand in many of our markets has grown rapidly in the last three years resulting in longer lead times in some of our businesses; however, as a result of the recent economic turmoil many of the lead times have decreased significantly. While we have supply agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are historically subject to month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE Our research and development program is focused on product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. We expense research and development expenditures, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $422 million in 2008, $318 million in 2007 and $312 million in 2006. Contract reimbursements were $61 million in 2008, $52 million in 2007 and $40 million in 2006. For 2008 and 2007, 27 percent, or $116 million, and 17 percent, or $55 million, respectively, were directly related to compliance with 2010 EPA emissions standards. For 2006, 3 percent, or $10 million, was related to compliance with 2007 EPA emissions standards. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Product Environmental Compliance Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing emissions and noise. Our products comply with emissions standards that the EPA, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and other state regulatory agencies, as well as other regulatory agencies around the world, have established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines and off-highway engines produced through 2008. Our ability to comply with these and future emissions standards is an essential element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards. Failure to comply with these standards could result in adverse effects on our future financial results. EPA Engine Certifications The current on-highway emissions standards came into effect in the U.S. on January 1, 2007. To meet the 2007 U.S. EPA heavy-duty on-highway emissions standards, Cummins is using cooled Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) technology with particulate matter (PM) filters. Cooled EGR is the same technology that we have used since April 2002 and was selected after reviewing other aftertreatment technologies such as Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) adsorbers and selective catalytic reduction (SCR). Our experience with particulate filters and the availability of ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel combined to give us the confidence in meeting these tough standards in the U.S. Additionally, while we believe the EGR/PM filter combination was the right solution for 2007 in the U.S. and for certain off-highway 12 Table of Contents applications, we have selected SCR as the right technology to meet on-highway Euro IV and V emissions standards. New on-highway emission standards will be required in 2010 in the U.S. We announced that we will use an evolution of our proven 2007 technology solution to maintain power and torque with substantial fuel economy improvement and maintenance intervals comparable with today's engines. We will offer a complete lineup of on-highway engines to meet the near-zero emissions standards. Mid-range and heavy-duty engines for EPA 2010 will require NOx aftertreatment. NOx reduction will be achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure Common Rail fuel system, SCR technology, next-generation cooled EGR, advanced electronic controls, proven air handling and the Cummins Particulate Filter. We are confident that we will meet these standards. Emissions standards in international markets, including Europe, Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil, India and China, are becoming more stringent. We believe that our experience in meeting U.S. emissions standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emissions control capability grows. Federal and California regulations require manufacturers to report failures of emissions-related components to the EPA and CARB when the failure rate reaches a specified level. At higher failure rates, a product recall may be required. In 2008, we submitted seven reports to the EPA relating to four different defects affecting oxidation catalysts, exhaust flex pipes, engine control modules, and vehicle labels. The oxidation catalysts defect necessitated the campaign of approximately 430 engines, and the vehicle label defect resulted in the campaign of 66 vehicles. Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a substantial portion of our annual capital outlays and are not expected to be material in 2009. Except as follows, we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations applicable to our plants and operations. In the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at approximately 19 waste disposal sites. Based upon our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be significant. We have established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites. In addition, we have four other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be material. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 39,800 persons worldwide. Approximately 14,300 of our employees worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2010 and 2014. For discussion of the effects of our restructuring actions on employment, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. 13 Table of Contents AVAILABLE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Cummins) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov. Our internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access Cummins Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media." We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access Cummins Corporate Governance webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "Investors and Media," followed by the "Investor Relations" link and then the topic heading of "Governance Documents" within the "Corporate Governance" heading. Cummins code of Conduct and other governance documents are included at this site. Cummins Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any entity owned or controlled by Cummins Inc. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NYSE"), on our internet site. The information on Cummins internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report. In accordance with NYSE Rules, on June 11, 2008, we filed the annual certification by our CEO that, as of the date of the certification, he was unaware of any violation by the company of the NYSE's corporate governance listing standards. Item 1A. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are some of the principal risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual business results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements contained in this Report. In addition, future results could be materially affected by general industry and market conditions, changes in laws or accounting rules, general U.S. and non-U.S. economic and political conditions, including a global economic slow-down, fluctuation of interest rates or currency exchange rates, terrorism, political unrest or international conflicts, political instability or major health concerns, natural disasters, commodity prices or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. These risk factors should be considered in addition to our cautionary comments concerning forward-looking statements in this Report, including statements related to markets for our products and trends in our business that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Our separate section above, "Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information," should be considered in addition to the following statements. Our consolidated operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening. The recent global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These conditions may make it difficult or impossible for our customers and suppliers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, which may cause 14 Table of Contents them to slow or suspend spending on products and services. As our customers face this challenging economic time, they may find it difficult to gain sufficient credit in a timely manner, which could result in an impairment of their ability to place orders with us or to make timely payments to us for previous purchases. If this occurs, our revenue may be reduced, thereby having a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may be forced to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding may increase, which would have a negative impact on our cash position, liquidity and financial condition. As a result of these conditions and depending on the length and impact these conditions have on our individual businesses, we could experience impairments to assets of certain businesses. We cannot predict the timing or the duration of this or any other economic downturn in the economy. The North American and European automotive industries are in distress and with further deterioration could adversely impact our business. A number of companies in the global automotive industry are facing severe financial difficulties. In North America, General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler have experienced declining markets. They have announced significant restructuring actions in an effort to improve profitability and some have received Federal financing assistance. The North American automotive manufacturers are also burdened with substantial structural costs, such as pension and healthcare costs, that have impacted their profitability and labor relations and may ultimately result in severe financial difficulty, including bankruptcy. Automakers across Europe and Japan are also experiencing difficulties from a weakened economy and tightening credit markets. Automotive industry conditions have adversely affected our supply base. Lower production levels for some of our key suppliers, increases in certain raw material, commodity and energy costs and the global credit market crisis has resulted in severe financial distress among many companies within the automotive supply base. The continuation of financial distress within the Automotive industry and the supply base and/or the bankruptcy of one or more of the automakers may lead to supplier bankruptcies, commercial disputes, supply chain interruptions, supplier requests for company sponsored capital support, or a collapse of the supply chain. We have a long standing relationship with Chrysler for the production of diesel engines for their heavy-duty truck series. Chrysler demand for this product decreased in the last twelve months, and accounted for three percent of our consolidated sales in 2008. If Chrysler were to enter into bankruptcy, the collection of receivables would be at risk. If such an event was to occur, and Chrysler is unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy in the near term, it may be forced to sell some or all of its assets which could include certain production lines including the Dodge Ram which could adversely impact our sales. Deterioration in the automotive markets could impact the business plan for our light-duty engine products currently under development In July 2006, we announced plans to develop and manufacture a light-duty diesel engine to be used in a variety of on- and off-highway applications. In July 2007, we entered into an agreement with Chrysler where it would purchase the engine exclusively for use in light-duty pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles. We have development agreements and commercial letters of intent with other automotive and marine customers. We proceeded with the technical development of these engine applications and have made significant investment in a manufacturing facility in Columbus, Indiana. In January 2009, Chrysler announced that it was delaying introduction of its 1500 Dodge Ram pickup truck with our new light-duty diesel engine until at least 2011. Since that time, we have continued to discuss with Chrysler its commitment to the light-duty diesel engine agreement. In January 2009, we formally requested that Chrysler provide us with assurances that Chrysler planned to continue to perform its obligations under our agreement for the development of these 15 Table of Contents light-duty diesel engines. Chrysler maintains that its ability to perform its obligations under the agreement remains unchanged despite its recent need for financial assistance from the Federal government. We remain committed to the development of this product line for other existing customers and will continue to discuss the light duty diesel engine program with Chrysler as well as with other potential customers. If significant modifications occur in these programs and we are unable to find alternative customers or applications for these products, we may need to impair our assets which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The current deterioration of the credit and capital markets may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or obtain funding under our revolving credit facility. Global financial markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption, and the credit markets have been exceedingly distressed. If credit markets continue to deteriorate, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our revolving credit facility because our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. If we are unable to access our revolving credit facility, the instability of financial markets could significantly increase the cost of obtaining additional or alternate funding from the credit markets as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and refused to refinance existing debt. Even if lenders and institutional investors are willing and able to provide adequate funding, interest rates may rise in the future and therefore increase the cost of borrowing we incur on any of our floating rate debt. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, it might adversely affect our ability to operate our business which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages. Cummins manufactures strategic components internally and through suppliers. We single source approximately 80 to 85 percent of the total types of parts in our product designs. Any delay in our suppliers' deliveries may affect our operations at multiple manufacturing locations, forcing us to seek alternative supply sources to avoid serious disruptions. Delays are caused by factors affecting our suppliers including capacity constraints, labor disputes, economic downturns, availability of credit, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair our ability to deliver products to our customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products are subject to substantial government regulation. Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, the European Union, state regulatory agencies, such as the CARB and other regulatory agencies around the world. Developing engines to meet changing government regulatory requirements, with different implementation timelines and emissions requirements, makes developing engines efficiently for multiple markets complicated and could result in substantial additional costs that may be difficult to recover in some markets. In some cases, we may be required to develop new products to comply with new regulations, particularly those relating to air emissions. For example, we were required to develop new engines to comply with stringent emissions standards in the United States (U.S.) by January 1, 2010 and Europe by September 1, 2010. While we 16 Table of Contents were able to meet previous deadlines, our ability to comply with other existing and future regulatory standards will be essential for us to maintain our position in the engine markets we serve. We have made and will be required to continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these regulatory standards. Further, the successful development and introduction of new and enhanced products are subject to risks, such as delays in product development, cost over-runs and unanticipated technical and manufacturing difficulties. In June 2008, four Cummins facilities in Southern Indiana, including our Technical Center, experienced extensive damage caused by flood water resulting from an unusually high amount of rainfall. The Technical Center was closed for a period of time during a critical testing period for new engine development to meet 2010 emission standards. We are insured for business interruption; however, it is possible that we will experience unrecoverable costs as a result of this loss of testing time. Any failure to comply with regulatory standards affecting our products could subject us to fines or penalties and could require us to cease production of any non-compliant engine or to recall any engines produced and sold in violation of the applicable standards. See "Product Environmental Compliance" in "Item 1 Business" for a complete discussion of the environmental laws and regulations that affect our products. Variability in material and commodity costs could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our manufacturing processes are exposed to variability in material and commodity costs. Our businesses establish prices with our customers in accordance with contractual time frames, however, the timing of market price increases may prevent us from passing these additional costs on to our customers through timely pricing actions. Additionally, higher material and commodity costs around the world may offset our efforts to reduce our cost structure. While we customarily enter into financial transactions to address some of these risks, we cannot assure that commodity price fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, while the use of commodity price hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in commodity prices, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in price. As a result, higher material and commodity costs, as well as hedging these commodity costs during periods of decreasing prices, both could result in declining margins and could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to currency exchange rate and other related risks. We conduct operations in many areas of the world involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. While we customarily enter into financial transactions to address these risks, we cannot assure that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, while the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. Actions of this nature, if they occur or continue for significant periods of time, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in any given period. 17 Table of Contents Deteriorating market conditions could diminish our pension plan asset performance which could adversely impact our equity and our cash flow. We sponsor both funded and unfunded domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and other retirement plans. Our pension expense and the required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected and actual rates of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the discount rate at which future projected and accumulated pension obligations are discounted to a present value. We could experience increased pension expense due to a combination of factors, including the decreased investment performance of pension plan assets, decreases in the discount rate and changes in our assumptions relating to the expected return on plan assets. The value of investments in our pension trusts have decreased during the recent market decline. As a result we experienced a material change to our Consolidated Balance Sheet which included an increase to Other long-term liabilities and a corresponding decrease in Stockholders' equity through Other comprehensive income. If the market turmoil causes further declines in our pension plan assets, we could continue to experience increased pension expense in future years and changes to Stockholders equity. We may be legally required to make contributions to our U.S pension plans in the future, and these contributions could be material. In addition, if local legal authorities increase the minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the U.S., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. We are exposed to political, economic and other risks that arise from operating a multinational business. Approximately 59 percent of our net sales for 2008 were attributable to customers outside the U.S. Accordingly, our business is subject to the political, economic and other risks that are inherent in operating in numerous countries. These risks include: •the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; •trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; •the imposition of withholding requirements on foreign earnings and tax rates in certain foreign countries that exceed those in the U.S.; •the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; •difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations and the application of foreign labor regulations; •required compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and •changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business as a whole. Our products are subject to recall for performance related issues. We are at risk for product recall costs. Product recall costs are incurred when we decide, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to recall a product through a formal campaign to solicit the return of specific products due to a known or suspected performance issue. Costs typically include the cost of the product, part or component being replaced, customer cost of the recall and labor to remove and replace the defective part or component. When a recall decision is made, we estimate the cost of the recall and record a charge to earnings in that period in accordance with FASB Statement of Financial 18 Table of Contents Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies." In making this estimate, judgment is required as to the quantity or volume to be recalled, the total cost of the recall campaign, the ultimate negotiated sharing of the cost between us and the customer and, in some cases, the extent to which the supplier of the part or component will share in the recall cost. As a result, these estimates are subject to change. We cannot assure that our truck manufacturers and OEM customers will continue to outsource their engine supply needs. Several of our engine customers, including PACCAR, Navistar, Volvo and Chrysler, are truck manufacturers or OEMs that manufacture engines for some of their own products. Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products, our emissions capability, systems integration, their customers' preferences and in order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus. However, we cannot assure that these customers will continue to outsource engine production in the future. Increased levels of OEM vertical integration could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers' business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet product specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. Any significant reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our truck manufacturer or OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Our plants and operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations in all of the countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot assure that we will not be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations, under either present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We are also subject to laws requiring the cleanup of contaminated property. If a release of hazardous substances occurs at or from any of our current or former properties or at a landfill or another location where we have disposed of hazardous materials, we may be held liable for the contamination and the amount of such liability could be material. We face risks through our equity method investments in companies that we do not control. Our net earnings include significant equity earnings, technical fees and royalty income from unconsolidated subsidiaries. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized $231 million of equity earnings and $22 million of other income from our unconsolidated subsidiaries which comprised almost 34 percent of our net earnings. The majority (80 percent) of our equity earnings comes from our North American distributors, DCEC and CCEC. We have equity interests in several of our North American distributors who distribute the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users. DCEC is located in Xiangfan, China and produces our B, C and L series four to nine liter mechanical engines in addition to full electronic diesel engines. CCEC is located in Chongqing, China and manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, serving primarily the industrial and stationary power markets in China. Our equity investments may not always perform at the levels we have seen in recent years. 19 Table of Contents We face reputational and legal risk from affiliations with joint venture partners. Several of our joint venture partners are domiciled in areas of the world with laws, rules and business practices that differ from those in the U.S. We strive to select partners who share our values and understand the Cummins reporting and compliance needs as a U.S. domiciled company. We work to ensure that an appropriate business culture exists within the ventures to minimize and mitigate our risk. We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters. As of December 31, 2008, we employed approximately 39,800 persons worldwide. Approximately 14,300 of our employees worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2010 and 2014. While we have no reason to believe that we will be impacted by work stoppages and other labor matters, we cannot assure that future issues with our labor unions will be resolved favorably or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages, or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. Any of these factors may have an adverse effect on us or may limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. In addition, many of our customers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by our customers could result in slow-downs or closures at vehicle assembly plants where our engines are installed. If one or more of our customers experience a material work stoppage, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is exposed to risks of product liability claims. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products' failure to perform to specification results, or is alleged to result, in property damage, bodily injury and/or death. We may experience material product liability losses in the future. While we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain product liability claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against product liability claims. In addition, product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods of time, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful defense of a product liability claim could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, even if we are successful in defending against a claim relating to our products, claims of this nature could cause our customers to lose confidence in our products and us. We face significant competition in the markets we serve. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of price, performance, fuel economy, speed of delivery, quality and customer support. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with the products of these other companies. Any failure by us to compete effectively in the markets we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a more complete discussion of the competitive environment in which each of our segments operates, see "Operating Segments" in "Item 1 Business." Our business is affected by the cyclical nature of the markets we serve. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on varying conditions in the markets and geographies that we serve. Demand in these markets and geographies fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels. Our sales are also impacted by OEM inventory levels and production schedules and stoppages. Economic downturns in 20 Table of Contents the markets we serve generally result in reductions in sales and pricing of our products, which could reduce future earnings and cash flow. Economic trends can impact our product lines in different ways. For example, our business with Chrysler pickup trucks is a consumer driven market while other product lines serve customers in markets where availability of credit could impact the timing of their purchasing decisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 