Item 1A. Risk Factors.We have summarized below the significant, known material risks to our business. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely impacted if any of these risks materialize. Additional risk factors not currently known to us or that we believe are immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The risk factors below should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as other required filings by us to the Securities Exchange Commission, such as our Form 10-Q’s, Form 8-K’s, proxy statements for our annual shareholder meetings, and subsequent amendments, if any.A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings depends upon the continued willingness of the U.S. Government and our other customers in the defense industry to buy our products and services.In 2013, approximately 30% of our revenues were derived from or related to defense programs. U.S. defense spending has historically been cyclical, and defense budgets tend to rise when perceived threats to national security increase the level of concern over the country’s safety. At other times, spending by the military can decrease. Competing demands for federal funds can put pressure on all areas of discretionary spending, which could ultimately impact the defense budget. A decrease in U.S. Government defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed, or terminated. Reductions in defense industry spending may or may not have an adverse effect on programs for which we provide products and services. In the event expenditures are reduced for products we manufacture or services we provide and are not offset by revenues from foreign sales, new programs, or products or services that we currently manufacture or provide, we may experience a reduction in our revenues and earnings and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations.We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks, or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could harm our business reputation. It could also result in our progress payments being withheld.In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience as well as for default based on performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on work actually completed on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would normally include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation.A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor.In addition, our U.S. Government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract or does not receive funding to continue the program. U.S. Government procurement may adversely affect our cash flow or program profitability.A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk that governmental purchases of our products may decline stems from the nature of our business with the U.S. government, where it may:•terminate, reduce, or modify contracts or subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change;•cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds become unavailable; and 14•shift its spending priorities.In addition, as a defense contractor, we are subject to risks in connection with government contracts, including without limitation:•the frequent need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns;•the difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term, fixed price contracts;•contracts with varying fixed terms that may not be renewed or followed by follow-on contracts upon expiration;•cancellation of the follow-on production phase of contracts if program requirements are not met in the development phase;•the failure of a prime contractor customer to perform on a contract;•the fact that government contract wins can be contested by other contractors; and•the inadvertent failure to comply with any the U.S. Government rules, laws and regulations, including the False Claims Act or the Arms Export Control Act.Sequestration and regulatory changes related to the U.S. Government Defense Budget could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.In January 2014, President Obama signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014, an omnibus spending bill. The law provides $520.5 billion for defense and $491.7 billion for non-defense discretionary programs through September 30, 2014 and replaces what would have been the second round of across-the-board sequester cuts “sequestration” mandated by the 2011 Budget Control Act. The act provides for modest sequester relief in FY14 and provides the DoD additional stability and flexibility to entertain multi-year contracts. Despite these benefits, the DoD and contractors will still face significant challenges over the next decade as a result of sequestration. While such reductions to future DoD spending levels are largely undetermined, any reduction in levels of DoD spending, cancellations or delays impacting existing contracts or programs, including through sequestration, could have a material impact on the Corporation’s results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The success of our growth strategy is dependent upon our ability to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses.Our strategy includes both growth through core "tuck-in" acquisitions and organic growth. As a result, our future growth depends in part on our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. If we are unable to identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing, and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations, our growth strategy may not be successful. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired company, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, and the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns. This is the case particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the completion of an acquisition since the operations of the acquired business are integrated into the acquiring businesses’ operations during this period. We cannot be sure that we will accurately anticipate all of the changing demands that any future acquisition may impose on our management or on our operational, financial, and management information systems. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to those of our existing operations or may otherwise not perform as we expected. We may fail to discover liabilities relating to a pending acquisition during the due diligence investigation, liabilities for which we, as the successor owner, might be responsible. Although we seek to minimize the impact of potential undiscovered liabilities by structuring acquisitions to minimize liabilities and obtaining indemnities and warranties from the selling party, these methods may not fully protect us from the impact of undiscovered liabilities. For example, indemnities or warranties are often limited in scope, amount, and duration and may not fully cover the liabilities for which they were intended. If indemnities or warranties are limited, the liabilities that are not covered by the limited indemnities or warranties could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.15We use estimates when accounting for long-term contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and overall financial position.Long-term contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract as costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards, price escalations, liquidated damages, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. It is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained, because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. See “Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies” in Part II, Item 7 of this form 10-K.If we fail to satisfy our contractual obligations our contracts may be terminated and we may incur significant costs or liabilities, including liquidated damages and penalties.In general, our contracts may be terminated for our failure to satisfy our contractual obligations. In addition, some of our contracts contain substantial liquidated damages provisions and financial penalties related to our failure to satisfy our contractual obligations. For example, the terms of the Electro-Mechanical divisions’ AP1000 China and AP1000 United States contracts with Westinghouse include liquidated damage penalty provisions for failure to meet contractual delivery dates if we caused the delay and the delay was not excusable. On October 10, 2013, we received a letter from Westinghouse stating entitlements to the maximum amount of liquidated damages allowable under the AP1000 China contract of approximately $25 million. To date, we have not met certain contractual delivery dates under the AP 1000 China contract; however there are significant uncertainties as to which parties are responsible for the delays, and we believe we have adequate legal defenses. Consequently, as a result of the above matters, we may incur significant costs or liabilities, including penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation, which could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Total backlog includes both funded (unfilled orders for which funding is authorized, appropriated, and contractually obligated by the customer) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not been appropriated and/or contractually obligated by the customer). The Corporation is a subcontractor to prime contractors for the vast majority of our government business; as such, substantially all amounts in backlog are funded. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering type contracts (e.g. Indefinite Delivery / Indefinite Quantity). Backlog is adjusted for changes in foreign exchange rates and is reduced for contract cancellations and terminations in the period in which they occur. Backlog as of December 31, 2013 was $1,716 million. Backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future sales. The U.S. government may unilaterally modify or cancel its contracts. In addition, under certain of our commercial contracts, our customers may unilaterally modify or terminate their orders at any time for their convenience. Accordingly, certain portions of our backlog can be cancelled or reduced at the option of the U.S. government and commercial customers. Our failure to replace cancelled or reduced backlog could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations.Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairment charges.At December 31, 2013, we had goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of approximately $1,582 million, which represented approximately 46% of our total assets. Our goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and is also tested whenever events and circumstances indicate that goodwill may be impaired. Any excess goodwill resulting from the impairment test must be written off in the period of determination. Intangible assets (other than goodwill) are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business that will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business that adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of goodwill or intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.16We operate in highly competitive markets.We compete against companies that often have greater sales volumes and financial, research, human, and marketing resources than we have. In addition, some of our largest customers could develop the capability to manufacture products or provide services similar to products that we manufacture or services that we provide. This would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. Our management believes that the principal points of competition in our markets are technology, product quality, performance, price, technical expertise, and timeliness of delivery. If we are unable to compete successfully with existing or new competitors in these areas, our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows, could be materially and adversely impacted.Our future growth and continued success is dependent upon our key personnel.Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management personnel and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and technical personnel. We face competition for management and qualified technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management and technical personnel or fill new management or technical positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at our existing compensation levels. Although we have entered into change of control agreements with some members of senior management, we do not have employment contracts with our key executives. We have made a concerted effort to reduce the effect of the loss of our senior management personnel through management succession planning. The loss of members of our senior management and qualified technical personnel could have a material and adverse effect on our business.Our international operations are subject to risks and volatility.During 2013, approximately 29% of our consolidated revenue was from customers outside of the United States, and we have operating facilities in foreign countries. Doing business in foreign countries is subject to numerous risks, including without limitation: political and economic instability; the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases; restrictive trade policies; and complying with foreign regulatory and tax requirements that are subject to change. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations. To the extent that foreign sales are transacted in foreign currencies and we do not enter into currency hedge transactions, we are exposed to risk of losses due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the Canadian dollar, the Euro, Swiss franc, and the British pound. Significant fluctuations in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.We may be unable to protect the value of our intellectual property.Obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our intellectual property rights and avoiding infringing on the intellectual property rights of others are important factors to the operation of our business. While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights. Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications, and other intellectual property relevant to our products that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used in third-party products that compete with our products and processes. When others infringe on our intellectual property rights, the value of our products is diminished, and we may incur substantial litigation costs to enforce our rights. Similarly, we may incur substantial litigation costs and the obligation to pay royalties if others claim we infringed on their intellectual property rights. When we develop intellectual property and technologies with funding from U.S. Government contracts, the government has the royalty-free right to use that property.In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information effectively. We require each of our employees and consultants to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. There is no guarantee that we will succeed in obtaining and retaining executed agreements from all employees or consultants. Moreover, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies.17Our operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws, regulations, and restrictions, and noncompliance with these laws, regulations, and restrictions could expose us to fines, penalties, suspension, or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and overall financial condition.We have contracts and operations in many parts of the world subject to United States and foreign laws and regulations, including the False Claims Act, regulations relating to import-export control (including the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act), technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Although we have implemented policies and procedures and provided training that we believe are sufficient to address these risks, we cannot guarantee that our operations will always comply with these laws and regulations. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.We are subject to liability under environmental laws.Our business and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and other waste products. Environmental laws generally impose liability for investigation, remediation, and removal of hazardous materials and other waste products on property owners and those who dispose of materials at waste sites, whether or not the waste was disposed of legally at the time in question. We are currently addressing environmental remediation at certain current and former facilities, and we have been named as a potentially responsible party along with other organizations in a number of environmental clean-up sites and may be named in connection with future sites. We are required to contribute to the costs of the investigation and remediation and to establish reserves in our financial statements for future costs deemed probable and estimable. Although we have estimated and reserved for future environmental remediation costs, the final resolution of these liabilities may significantly vary from our estimates and could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.Our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. Changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. Corporate tax reform continues to be a priority in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Changes to the tax system in the U.S. could have significant effects, positive or negative, on our effective tax rate and on our deferred tax assets and liabilities. In addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense.Our current debt, and debt we may incur in the future, could adversely affect our business and financial position.As of December 31, 2013, we had $960 million of debt outstanding, of which $959 million is long-term debt. Our level of debt could have significant consequences for our business including: requiring us to use our cash flow to pay the principal and interest on our debt, reducing funds available for acquisitions and other investments in our business; making us vulnerable to economic downturns and increases in interest rates; limiting us from obtaining additional debt; and impacting our ability to pay dividends.A percentage of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements.Approximately 6% of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements, which from time to time are subject to renewal and negotiation. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor, or that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. Although we have generally enjoyed good relations with both our unionized and non-unionized employees, if we are subject to labor actions, we may experience an adverse impact on our operating results.For example, on August 24, 2012, the Electronic Mechanical Division (EMD) of Curtiss Wright’s Flow Control segment experienced a strike at its Cheswick, Pennsylvania facility. The financial impacts of the strike were an $18 million and $6 million shift in revenue and operating income, respectively, from 2012 to 2013, due to the temporary suspension of work, and an additional $5 million unfavorable impact to operating income as a result of unrecoverable absorption of overhead costs.18Substantial defaults by our customers related to accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could adversely and materially affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs, and defaults in excess of management’s expectations.Our earnings and margins depend in part on subcontractor performance, as well as raw material and component availability and pricing.Our businesses depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials and components. At times subcontractors perform services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet their contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. Generally, raw materials and purchased components are available from a number of different suppliers, though several suppliers are our sole source of certain components. If a sole-source supplier should cease or otherwise be unable to deliver such components, our operating results could be adversely impacted. In addition, our supply networks can sometimes experience price fluctuations. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers are unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. While we have attempted to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases, there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw materials costs through price increases.Our business involves risks associated with complex manufacturing processes.Our manufacturing processes depend on certain sophisticated and high-value equipment. Unexpected failures of this equipment may result in production delays, revenue loss, and significant repair costs. In addition, equipment failures could result in injuries to our employees. Moreover, the competitive nature of our businesses requires us to continuously implement process changes intended to achieve product improvements and manufacturing efficiencies. These process changes may at times result in production delays, quality concerns, and increased costs. Any disruption of operations at our facilities due to equipment failures or process interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business.The airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our results of operations could suffer.Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the European Aviation Safety Agency, prescribe standards and qualification requirements for aircraft components, including virtually all commercial airline and general aviation products. Specific regulations vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in other countries. We include, with the products that we sell to our aircraft manufacturing customers, documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our products, we and the products we manufacture must also be certified by our individual OEM customers. If any of the material authorizations or approvals qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended, then the sale of the subject product would be prohibited by law, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies.Virtually all of the products produced and sold by us are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The commercial and government markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The product and program needs of our government and commercial customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends in part on our ability to identify emerging technological trends, develop and manufacture competitive products, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices.19Potential product liability risks exist from the products that we sell.We manufacture highly engineered products, and such products may contain design or manufacturing errors or defects, which may result in product liability claims against us. For example, in December 2013, we, along with other unaffiliated parties, received a claim from Canadian Natural Resources Limited (CNRL) pertaining to a fire and explosion at a delayed coker unit at CNRL’s Fort McMurray refinery which resulted in the injury of five CNRL employees, damage to property and equipment, and various forms of consequential loss such as loss of profit, lost opportunities, and business interruption. The fire and explosion occurred when a CNRL employee bypassed certain safety controls and opened an operating coker unit. The total quantum of alleged damages arising from the incident has not been finalized, but is estimated to meet or exceed $1 billion . We currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate commercial, property and casualty, product liability, and other forms of insurance to cover this matter and other potential claims. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will be provide adequate protection against these potential liabilities. In the event of a judgment against us on this matter or other claims against us, a lack of sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, even if we maintain adequate insurance, any successful claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, and on the ability to obtain suitable or adequate insurance. Increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. U.S. GAAP requires that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension or other postretirement benefit expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, expected future medical cost inflation, and expected compensation increases. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement benefit plans accounting policies, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Although U.S. GAAP expense and pension or other postretirement contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect U.S. GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash the company would contribute to the pension or other postretirement plans. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law, Employee Retirement Income Security Act, and discretionary contributions to improve the plans’ funded status. An obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses.Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted by the current worldwide economic conditions.We currently generate significant operating cash flows, which combined with access to the credit markets provides us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, financial markets in the United States, Europe, and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. While currently these conditions have not impaired our ability to operate our business, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies, which could impact customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of a disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they will have on our business and financial condition.Future terror attacks, war, natural disasters, or other events beyond our control could adversely impact our businesses.Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our production capabilities and corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unforeseen interruptions to us through business continuity planning and disaster recovery plans, terrorist attacks, war, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornados, pandemic diseases, or other events, such as strikes by a significant customer’s or supplier’s workforce, could adversely impact demand for or supply of our products and could also cause disruption to our facilities or systems, which could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. We operate facilities in areas of the world that are exposed to natural disasters, such as but not limited to hurricanes, floods, tornados, and pandemic diseases. Financial difficulties of our customers, delays by our customers in production of their products, high fuel prices, the concern of another major terrorist attack, and the overall decreased demand for our products could adversely affect our operating results and financial position.20Intrusion on our systems could damage our business.We store sensitive data, including intellectual property, proprietary business information, and confidential employee information, on our servers and databases. Despite our implementation of firewalls, switchgear, and other network security measures, our servers, databases, and other systems may be vulnerable to computer hackers, physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, computer viruses, worms, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. We continue to review and enhance our computer systems to try to prevent unauthorized and unlawful intrusions, but in the future it is possible that we may not be able to prevent all intrusions. Such intrusions could result in our network security or computer systems being compromised and possibly result in the misappropriation or corruption of sensitive information or cause disruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, remediate, or alleviate problems caused by such intrusions. Any such intrusion could cause us to be non-compliant with applicable laws or regulations, subject us to legal claims or proceedings, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.There are risks associated with owning our common stock.Like any equity security, our common stock is subject to a number of risks that may adversely impact our share price including: there is a limited trading market in our common stock; we may not in the future be able to pay dividends on our common stock; we may issue common stock for acquisitions or other purposes that could be dilutive to current stockholders; and we have various anti-takeover defenses such as our rights plan and our ability to issue preferred stock that may discourage a potential acquirer.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.