Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted if any of these risks materialize. Additional risk factors not currently known to us or that we believe are immaterial also may impair our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock may also decline as a result of these risks. A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings depends upon the continued willingness of the U.S. Government and our other customers in the defense industry to buy our products and services. In 2007, approximately 40% of our revenues were derived from or related to defense programs, with approximately 18% attributable to U.S. Navy procurements. U.S. defense spending has historically been cyclical, and defense budgets rise when perceived threats to national security increase the level of concern over the country’s safety. At other times, spending on the military can decrease. While Department of Defense funding has grown rapidly over the past few years, there is no assurance this trend will continue. Competing demands for federal funds can put pressure on all areas of discretionary spending, which could ultimately impact the defense budget. A decrease in U.S. government defense spending or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed, or terminated. Reductions in defense industry spending may or may not have an adverse effect on programs for which we provide products and services. In the event expenditures are reduced for products we manufacture or services we provide and are not offset by revenues from foreign sales, new programs, or products or services that we currently manufacture or provide, we may experience a reduction in our revenues and earnings and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that our significant customers will continue to buy our products and services at current or increased levels. As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to follow procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow cost accounting standards, receiving or paying kickbacks or filing false claims. We have been, and expect to continue to be, subjected to audits and investigations by government agencies. The failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could harm our business reputation. It could also result in our progress payments being withheld. In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and, in general, subcontracts, at its convenience, as well as for default based on performance. Upon termination for convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process and an Page 18 allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost reimbursement contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Such allowable costs would include our cost to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our services as a subcontractor. In addition, our U.S. Government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S. Government generally has the right to not exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period if the agency is not satisfied with our performance on the contract. U.S. Government Procurement may adversely affect our cash flow or program profitability. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by the U.S. government would have a material adverse effect on our business. The risk that governmental purchases of our products may decline stems from the nature of our business with the U.S. government, in which the U.S. government may: terminate, reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds become unavailable; and shift its spending priorities. In addition, as a defense business, we are subject to the following risks in connection with government contracts: the frequent need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns; the difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term, fixed price contracts; our contracts are for varying fixed terms that may not be renewed or followed by follow-on contracts upon expiration; and cancellation of the follow-on production phase of contracts if program requirements are not met in the development phase. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. Government. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited by the U.S. Government and others. On a regular basis, we monitor our policies and procedures with respect to our contracts to ensure consistent application under similar terms and conditions and to assess compliance with all applicable government regulations. Negative audit findings could result in termination of a contract, forfeiture of profits, or suspension of payments. From time to time we are subject to U.S. Government investigations relating to our operations. Government contractors that are found to have violated the law, such as the False Claims Act or the Arms Export Control Act, or are indicted or convicted for violations of other federal laws, or are found not to have acted responsibly as defined by the law, may be subject to significant fines. Such convictions could also result in suspension or debarment from government contracting for some period of time. Given our dependence on government contracting, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our business. Page 19 Failure to comply with certain U.S. Government sourcing requirements may adversely affect our cash flow. We, like others in the defense industry, are aware of a potential problem presented by strict compliance with the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement preference for enumerated specialty metals sourced domestically or from certain foreign countries. Subcontractors and lower-tier suppliers have made disclosures indicating inability to comply with the rule as written, particularly for low-value parts such as washers, screws, nuts, bolts, resistors and capacitors. Subject to limitations, inability to certify that all enumerated specialty metals in a product comply with sourcing requirements can lead to U.S. Government customers withholding a portion of a payment on delivery or may prevent delivery altogether of material and products critical to national defense. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Defense industry procurement involves seasonality and economic cycles and as a result our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate. It is possible that our operating results for a particular quarter may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Similarly, securities analysts may issue reports downgrading our common stock. These events could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future terror attacks, war, or other events could adversely impact our commercial aerospace and other businesses. Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our production capabilities and corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unforeseen interruptions to us through business continuity planning and disaster recovery plans, terrorist attacks, war, or other events such as strikes by a significant customer’s or supplier’s workforce could adversely impact demand for or supply of our products and could also cause disruption to our facilities or systems which could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. For example, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent terrorist attacks worldwide caused decreased demand in the commercial aerospace market for our products and commercial overhaul and repair services. During 2007, approximately 17% of our business was related to commercial aerospace. The commercial aerospace industry is cyclical and subject to factors beyond our control. A number of commercial airline carriers have recently experienced large losses and filed for bankruptcy. Financial difficulties of our customers, delays in production of new aircraft, high fuel prices and decreased demand for new aircraft and continued use of existing aircraft could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. The success of our growth strategy is dependent upon our ability to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses. Our strategy includes growth through acquisitions. As a result, our future growth depends in large part on our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. If we are unable to identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing, and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations, our growth strategy may not be successful. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired company, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company, and the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns. This is the case particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the completion of an acquisition because the operations of the acquired business are integrated into the acquiring businesses’ operations during this period. We cannot be sure that we will accurately anticipate all of the changing demands that any future acquisition may impose on our management, our operational and management information systems, and our financial systems. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to those of our existing operations or may otherwise not perform as we expected. We may fail to discover liabilities relating to a pending acquisition during the due diligence investigation, liabilities for which we, as the successor owner, might be responsible for those liabilities. Although we seek to minimize the impact of potential undiscovered liabilities by structuring acquisitions to minimize liabilities and obtaining indemnities and warranties from the selling party, these methods may not fully protect us from the impact of undiscovered liabilities. For example, indemnities or warranties are often limited in scope, amount, or duration, and may not fully cover the liabilities for which they were intended. If indemnities or warranties are limited, the liabilities that are not covered by the limited indemnities or warranties could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Page 20 We use estimates when accounting for contracts. Changes in estimates could affect our profitability and overall financial position. Contract accounting requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs, and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the size and nature of many of our contracts, the estimation of total revenues and costs at completion is complicated and subject to many variables. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract because costs also include expected increases in wages and prices for materials. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. Incentives, awards, or penalties related to performance on contracts are considered in estimating revenue and profit rates and are recorded when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated performance. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimation processes described above, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances, or estimates may have a material adverse effect upon future period financial reporting and performance. See “Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies” in Part II, Item 7. New accounting standards could result in changes to our methods of quantifying and recording accounting transactions, and could affect our financial results and financial position. Changes to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) arise from new and revised standards, interpretations, and other guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and others. In addition, the U.S. Government may issue new or revised Cost Accounting Standards or Cost Principles. The effects of such changes may include prescribing an accounting method where none had been previously specified, prescribing a single acceptable method of accounting from among several acceptable methods that currently exist, or revoking the acceptability of a current method and replacing it with an entirely different method, among others. Such changes could result in unanticipated effects on our results of operations, financial position, and other financial measures. Our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs. At December 31, 2007, our backlog included both cost reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Cost reimbursable contracts generally have lower profit margins than fixed-price contracts. Production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and developmental contracts are generally cost reimbursable contracts. Our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government and commercial contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. Under time-and-materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-reimbursable contracts, subject to a contract-ceiling amount in certain cases, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated. The failure to perform to customer expectations and contract requirements can result in reduced fees and may affect our financial performance for the affected period. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against companies that often have greater sales volumes and financial, research, human, and marketing resources than we have. In addition, some of our largest customers could develop the capability to manufacture products or provide services similar to products that we manufacture or services that we provide. This would result in these customers supplying their own products or services and competing directly with us for sales of these products or services, all of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Furthermore, we are facing increased international competition and cross-border consolidation of competition. Our management believes that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality, performance, price, design and engineering capabilities, Page 21 service, contractual terms, previous installation history, and timeliness of delivery. If we are unable to compete successfully with existing or new competitors in these areas, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our future growth and continued success is dependent upon our key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management personnel and our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for management from other companies and organizations. Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management personnel or fill new management positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover at our existing compensation levels. Although we have entered into change of control agreements with some members of senior management, we do not have employment contracts with our key executives. We have made a concerted effort to reduce the effect of the loss of our senior management personnel through management succession planning. The loss of members of our senior management group could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industries is intense, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train, and retain such personnel. Our international operations are subject to risks and volatility. During 2007, approximately 30% of our consolidated revenue was from customers outside of the United States, and we have operating facilities in foreign countries. Doing business in foreign countries is subject to numerous risks, including without limitation: political and economic instability; the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases; restrictive trade policies; and complying with foreign regulatory and tax requirements that are subject to change. While these factors or the impact of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our operations in the future. To the extent that foreign sales are transacted in foreign currencies and we do not enter into currency hedge transactions, we are exposed to risk of losses due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the Canadian dollar, the euro, Swiss franc, and the British pound. Significant fluctuations in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to protect the value of our intellectual property. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our intellectual property rights and avoiding infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. While we take precautionary steps to protect our technological advantages and intellectual property and rely in part on patent, trademark, trade secret, and copyright laws, we cannot assure that the precautionary steps we have taken will completely protect our intellectual property rights. Because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until either the patent application is published or a patent is issued, we may not be aware of third-party patents, patent applications, and other intellectual property relevant to our products that may block our use of our intellectual property or may be used in third-party products that compete with our products and processes. When others infringe on our intellectual property rights, the value of our products is diminished, and we may incur substantial litigation costs to enforce our rights. Similarly, we may incur substantial litigation costs and the obligation to pay royalties if others claim we infringed on their intellectual property rights. When we develop intellectual property and technologies in connection with U.S. Government contracts, the government has the royalty-free right to use that property. In addition to our patent rights, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our technology. We may not be able to protect our rights in unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information effectively. We require each of our employees and consultants to execute a confidentiality agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, these agreements may not provide effective protection of our information or, in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure, they may not provide adequate remedies. Page 22 Our operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws, regulations, and restrictions, and noncompliance with these laws, regulations, and restrictions could expose us to fines, penalties, suspension, or debarment, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and overall financial condition. We have contracts and operations in many parts of the world subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including the False Claims Act, regulations relating to import-export control (including the International Traffic in Arms Regulation promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act), technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities and could, in the extreme case, result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to liability under environmental laws. Our business and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and other waste products. Environmental laws generally impose liability for investigation, remediation, and removal of hazardous materials and other waste products on property owners and those who dispose of materials at waste sites whether or not the waste was disposed of legally at the time in question. We are currently addressing environmental remediation at certain current and former facilities, and we have been named as a potentially responsible party along with other organizations in a number of environmental clean-up sites and may be named in connection with future sites. We are required to contribute to the costs of the investigation and remediation and to take reserves in our financial statements for future costs deemed probable and estimable. Although we have estimated and reserved for future environmental remediation costs, the final resolution of these liabilities may significantly vary from our estimates and could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. Our business operates in many locations under government jurisdictions that impose income taxes. Changes in domestic or foreign income tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation, could result in higher or lower income tax rates assessed or changes in the taxability of certain revenues or the deductibility of certain expenses, thereby affecting our income tax expense and profitability. In addition, audits by income tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our income tax expense. Our current debt, and debt we may incur in the future, could adversely affect our business and financial position. As of December 31, 2007, we had $512 million of debt outstanding, of which $511 million is long-term debt. Our debt consists primarily of principal payable under our fixed rate senior notes and principal payable at a variable rate of interest under our revolving line of credit. Our level of debt could have significant consequences for our business including: requiring us to use our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, reducing funds available for acquisitions and other investments in our business; making us vulnerable to economic downturns and increases in interest rates; limiting us from obtaining additional debt; and impacting our ability to pay dividends. A percentage of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 9% of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements, which from time to time are subject to renewal and negotiation. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, or that such negotiations will not result in significant increases in the cost of labor or that a breakdown in such negotiations will not result in the disruption of our operations. Although we have generally enjoyed good relations with both our unionized and non-unionized employees, if we are subject to labor actions, we may experience an adverse impact on our operating results. Page 23 Substantial defaults by our customers on their accounts receivable or the loss of significant customers could have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. A significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable from customers. If customers responsible for a significant amount of accounts receivable were to become insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for products and services, or were to become unwilling or unable to make payments in a timely manner, our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected. An economic or industry downturn could adversely and materially affect the servicing of these accounts receivable, which could result in longer payment cycles, increased collection costs, and defaults in excess of management’s expectations. We rely on certain suppliers as a sole source of components for some of our products. Our manufacturing processes for our products often consist of the assembly of purchased components that are generally available from a number of different suppliers, though several suppliers are our sole source of certain components. If a sole source supplier should cease or otherwise be unable to deliver such components, our operating results could be adversely impacted. In addition, if our suppliers are unable to keep up with our demand for purchased components and we are unable to locate additional sources of supply, our operating results could be adversely impacted. Our earnings and margins depend in part on subcontractor performance, as well as raw material and component availability and pricing. Our businesses depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials and components. At times subcontractors perform services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet their contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements. These supply networks can sometimes experience price fluctuations. Our ability to perform our obligations as a prime contractor may be adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner. While we have attempted to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases, there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw materials costs through price increases. Our business involves risks associated with complex manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing processes depend on certain sophisticated and high-value equipment. Unexpected failures of this equipment may result in production delays, revenue loss, and significant repair costs. In addition, equipment failures could result in injuries to our employees. Moreover, the competitive nature of our businesses requires us continuously to implement process changes intended to achieve product improvements and manufacturing efficiencies. These process changes may at times result in production delays, quality concerns, and increased costs. Any disruption of operations at our facilities due to equipment failures or process interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new technologies. Virtually all of the products produced and sold by us are highly engineered and require sophisticated manufacturing and system-integration techniques and capabilities. The commercial and government markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The product and program needs of our government and commercial customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends in part on our ability to identify emerging technological trends, develop and manufacture competitive products, and bring those products to market quickly at cost-effective prices. Potential product liability risks exist from the products that we sell. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products and the products of third-party vendors that we use or resell. We currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain our product liability insurance on acceptable terms or that our product liability insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In the event of a claim against us, a lack of sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Page 24 Moreover, even if we maintain adequate insurance, any successful claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and on the ability to obtain suitable or adequate insurance. Increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results of operations. Our earnings may be positively or negatively impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can change the assumptions. The most significant year-end assumptions used to estimate pension or other postretirement benefit expense for the following year are the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and expected future medical cost inflation. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a reduction or increase to other comprehensive income. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension and other postretirement benefit plans accounting policies, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies—Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits” in Part II, Item 7. Although GAAP expense and pension or other postretirement contributions are not directly related, the key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash the company would contribute to the pension or other postretirement plans. Potential pension contributions include both mandatory amounts required under federal law Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) and discretionary contributions to improve the plans’ funded status. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls, and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Corporation have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. There are risks associated with owning our common stock. Like any equity security, our common stock is subject to a number of risks that may adversely impact our share price including: there is a limited trading market in our common stock; we may not in the future be able to pay dividends on our common stock; we may issue common stock for acquisitions or other purposes that could be dilutive to current stockholders; and we have various anti-takeover defenses such as our rights plan and our ability to issue preferred stock that may discourage a potential acquirer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Page 25 