Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted if any of these risks materialize. Additional risk factors not currently known to us or that we believe are immaterial also may impair our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The trading price of our common stock may also decline as a result of these risks. A substantial portion of our revenues and earnings is dependent upon the continued willingness of the U.S. Government and our other customers in the defense industry to buy our products and services. In 2006, approximately 45% of our revenues were derived from or related to defense programs, with approximately 21% attributable to U.S. Navy procurements. The loss of a significant defense program or customer could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. There can be no assurance that our significant customers will continue to buy our products and services at current or increased levels. Our business with the U.S. Government and defense contractors is subject to risks including: termination, reduction, or modification of our contracts, subcontracts, and backlog in the event of changes in the U.S. Government’s requirements, spending priorities, or defense-related budgets; when we are a subcontractor, the failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its prime contract; in some contracts the final price per unit may be deferred; adjustment of contract costs and fees as a result of government audits; the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of design completion that may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost overruns; our contracts are for varying fixed terms that may not be renewed or followed by follow-on contracts upon expiration; and cancellation of the follow-on production phase of contracts if program requirements are not met in the development phase. Reductions in defense industry spending may or may not have an adverse effect on programs for which we provide products and services. In the event expenditures are reduced for products we manufacture or services we provide and are not offset by revenues from foreign sales, new programs, or products or services that we currently manufacture or provide, we may experience a reduction in our revenues and earnings and a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations. Defense industry procurement involves seasonality and economic cycles and as a result our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate. It is possible that our operating results for a particular quarter may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Similarly, securities analysts may issue reports downgrading our common stock. These events could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Future terror attacks, war, or other events could adversely impact our commercial aerospace and other businesses. Despite our concerted effort to minimize risk to our production capabilities and corporate information systems and to reduce the effect of unforeseen interruptions to us through business continuity planning, terrorist attacks, war, or other events such as strikes by a significant customer’s workforce could adversely impact demand for our products and could also cause disruption to our facilities or systems which could also interrupt operational processes and adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and provide services and support to our customers. For example, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and subsequent terrorist attacks worldwide caused decreased demand in the commercial aerospace market for our products and commercial overhaul and repair services. During 2006, approximately 18% of our business was related to commercial aerospace. The commercial aerospace industry is cyclical and subject to factors beyond our control. A number of commercial airline carriers have recently experienced large losses and filed for bankruptcy. Financial difficulties of our customers and decreased demand for new aircraft and continued use of existing aircraft could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. Page 17 The success of our growth strategy is dependent upon our ability to complete acquisitions and integrate acquired businesses. Our strategy includes growth through acquisitions. As a result, our future growth depends in large part on our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. If we are unable to identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing, and successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations, our future growth and operating results could be adversely impacted. We operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against companies that often have greater sales volumes and financial, research, human, and marketing resources than we have. Our management believes that the principal points of competition in our markets are product quality, price, design and engineering capabilities, product development, conformity to customer specifications, quality of post-sale support, timeliness of delivery, and effectiveness of the distribution organization. If we are unable to compete successfully with existing or new competitors in these areas, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our future growth and continued success is dependent upon our key personnel. Our success is dependent upon the efforts of our senior management personnel. The loss of members of our senior management group could have a material and adverse effect on our business. In addition, competition for qualified technical personnel in our industries is intense, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train, and retain such personnel. Our international operations are subject to risks and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. During 2006, approximately 25% of our consolidated revenue was from customers outside of the United States, and we have operating facilities in foreign countries. Doing business in foreign countries is subject to numerous risks including: political and economic instability, restrictive trade policies, and complying with foreign regulatory and tax requirements that are subject to change. To the extent that foreign sales are transacted in foreign currencies and we do not enter into currency hedge transactions, we are exposed to risk of losses due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly for the Canadian dollar, the euro, Swiss franc, and the British pound. Significant fluctuations in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to protect the value of our intellectual property. Our success depends in part on obtaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights and avoiding infringing on the intellectual property rights of others. When others infringe our intellectual property rights, the value of our products is diminished, and we may incur substantial litigation costs to enforce our rights. Similarly, we may incur substantial litigation costs and the obligation to pay royalties if others claim we infringed their intellectual property rights. When we develop intellectual property and technologies in connection with U.S. Government contracts, the government has the royalty-free right to use that property. Our business is subject to substantial regulation. We are subject to numerous regulations including but not limited to those relating to federal government contracting and export compliance. Our failure to comply with these and other laws could result in contract termination and debarment, civil fines and damages, and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We are subject to liability under environmental laws. Our business and facilities are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations relating to the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and other waste products. Environmental laws generally impose liability for investigation, remediation, and removal of hazardous materials and other waste products on property owners and those who dispose of materials at waste sites whether or not the Page 18 waste was disposed of legally at the time in question. We have been named as a potentially responsible party along with other organizations in a number of environmental clean-up sites and may be named in connection with future sites. We are required to contribute to the costs of the investigation and remediation and to take reserves in our financial statements for future costs deemed probable and estimable. Although we have estimated and reserved for future environmental remediation costs, the final resolution of these liabilities may significantly vary from our estimates and could potentially have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our current debt, and debt we may incur in the future, could adversely affect our business and financial position. As of December 31, 2006, we had $364.9 million of debt outstanding, of which $359.0 million is long-term debt. Our debt consists primarily of principal payable under our fixed rate senior notes. Our level of debt could have significant consequences for our business including: requiring us to use our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, reducing funds available for acquisitions and other investments in our business; making us vulnerable to economic downturns and increases in interest rates; limiting us from obtaining additional debt; and impacting our ability to pay dividends. A percentage of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 12% of our workforce is employed under collective bargaining agreements, which from time to time are subject to renewal and negotiation. Although we have generally enjoyed good relations with both our unionized and non-unionized employees, if we are subject to labor actions, we may experience an adverse impact on our operating results. We rely on certain suppliers as a sole source of components for some of our products. Our manufacturing processes for our products often consist of the assembly of purchased components that are generally available from a number of different suppliers, though several suppliers are our sole source of certain components. If a sole source supplier should cease or otherwise be unable to deliver such components, our operating results could be adversely impacted. Our future performance is influenced by costs incurred by our operating companies including, for example, the costs of raw materials Our businesses depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials and components. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations. While we have attempted to mitigate the effects of increased costs through price increases, there are no assurances that higher prices can effectively be passed through to our customers or that we will be able to offset fully or on a timely basis the effects of higher raw materials costs through price increases. Our business involves risks associated with complex manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing processes depend on certain sophisticated and high-value equipment. Unexpected failures of this equipment may result in production delays, revenue loss, and significant repair costs. In addition, equipment failures could result in injuries to our employees. Moreover, the competitive nature of our businesses requires us continuously to implement process changes intended to achieve product improvements and manufacturing efficiencies. These process changes may at times result in production delays, quality concerns, and increased costs. Any disruption of operations at our facilities due to equipment failures or process interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential product liability risks exist from the products that we sell. Our businesses expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and sale of our products and the products of third-party vendors that we use or resell. We currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate product liability insurance. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain our product liability insurance on acceptable terms or that our product liability insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. In the event of a claim against us, a lack of sufficient insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, even if we maintain adequate insurance, any successful claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and on the ability to obtain suitable or adequate insurance. Page 19 Increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results of operations. The amount of expenses recorded for our defined benefit pension plans is dependent on changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets, which are dependent on actual plan asset returns. Significant changes in market interest rates and decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may adversely affect our future results of operations. While we believe our control systems are effective, there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We continue to take action to assure compliance with the internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Corporation have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be detected. There are risks associated with owning our common stock. Like any equity security, our common stock is subject to a number of risks that may adversely impact our share price including: there is a limited trading market in our common stock; we may not in the future be able to pay dividends on our common stock; we may issue common stock for acquisitions or other purposes that could be dilutive to current stockholders; and we have various anti-takeover defenses such as our rights plan and our ability to issue preferred stock that may discourage a potential acquirer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Page 20 