ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In addition to the following risk factors, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We rely heavily on sales to the U.S. government, particularly to agencies of the Department of Defense. Historically, a significant portion of our sales have been to the U.S. government and its agencies. Sales to the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor, represented approximately 87% and 94% of our revenues for fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. The Department of Defense, our principal U.S. government customer, accounted for approximately 87% and 94% of our revenues for fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. In addition, approximately 55% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 and approximately 61% of our revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007 were derived from agencies and commands of the U.S. Navy within the Department of Defense. We expect that U.S. government sales, particularly Department of Defense sales, will continue to constitute a significant majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. The funding of U.S. government programs is dependent on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and is subject to uncertain future funding levels that can result in the extension or termination of programs. Our business is also highly sensitive to changes in national and international priorities and U.S. government budgets. The continuing war on terrorism may positively or adversely affect funding for our programs or result in changes in U.S. government programs or spending priorities. A shift in government defense or intelligence spending to other programs in which we are not involved or a reduction in government defense or intelligence spending generally could adversely affect our operating results. The legislative, executive and administrative changes as a result of the November 2008 elections could adversely affect program direction, timing and/or funding levels as Congress the new Presidential administration become established and define their respective legislative and spending agendas. Multi-year U.S. government programs are generally not fully funded at inception, and funding may be terminated or reduced at any time. We act as a prime contractor or subcontractor for many different U.S. government programs. Department of Defense and intelligence contracts typically involve long lead times for design and development, and are subject to significant changes in contract scheduling. Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs are often only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The termination or reduction of funding for a government program would result in a loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program. 16 Many of our government contracts span one or more base years with multiple option terms. Government agencies generally have the right not to exercise these option terms. If an option term on a contract is not exercised, we will not be able to recognize the full value of the contract awarded. Our backlog as of September 30, 2008 was $327.3 million, of which $272.6 million was funded. We exclude from backlog unexercised options on contracts. Our backlog includes orders under awards that in some cases extend several years, with the latest expiring in 2011. The actual receipt of revenues on awards included in backlog may never occur or may change because a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled, or a contract could be reduced, modified, or terminated early. Typically, although not always, a change in Presidential administrations creates delay in staffing key federal decision-making positions, which could result in delays in program or funding approvals. From time to time, we depend on revenues from a few significant contracts, and any loss or cancellation of, or any reduction or delay in, any of these contracts could significantly harm our business. From time to time, including recent periods, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from one or more individual contracts that could be terminated by the customer at the customer’s discretion. Our top three production programs accounted for approximately 17%, 23% and 25% of our revenue for fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In the future, we may enter into one or more contracts that will constitute a significant portion of our revenue during the period of contract performance. If any of our current significant contracts or significant contracts we enter into in the future were terminated or our work under those contracts were decreased, our revenues and net income could significantly decline. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with significant customers. There is no assurance that we will be able to diversify our customer base and curtail revenue concentration in the near future, if at all. The markets in which we sell our products are dominated by a relatively small number of governmental agencies and allies of the U.S. government, thereby limiting the number of potential customers. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our systems and services in the same volume as in prior years. In addition, many of our contracts with the U.S. government contain provisions that allow the government to terminate or modify the terms of the contract, including solely at the government’s convenience. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may have to make could significantly harm our business. Our U.S. government contracts generally may be terminated at the government’s convenience or for our default. Generally, U.S. government contracts contain provisions permitting termination, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience or for contractor default. If a contract is terminated at the convenience of the government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work completed. Contracts which are terminated for default generally provide that the government only pays for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of reprocurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. As a substantial majority of our revenues are dependent on procurement, performance and payment under U.S. government contracts, the termination of one or more critical government contracts could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Termination arising out of any default could expose us to liability and also have a material adverse effect on our ability to re-compete for future contracts and orders. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement and operational rules and regulations with respect to federal contracts. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, including but not limited to the Federal Acquisition Regulations. These laws and regulations, among other things: • require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; 17 • impose accounting rules that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. government contracts; and • restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the exportation of certain products and technical data. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our domestic as well as international customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, and suspension or debarment, for cause, from U.S. government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time. Our U.S. government contracts contain provisions that may be unfavorable to us. Our U.S. government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts, including rights and remedies that allow the government to: • unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations; • reduce the value of existing contracts; • issue modifications to a contract; • control and potentially prohibit the export of our products and services and associated materials; and • claim rights in products and systems produced by us. If any of these contract provisions are enforced by our customers, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by a negative audit by the U.S. government. U.S. government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, routinely audit and investigate government prime contractors and subcontractors. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, its cost structure and its compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also may review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, while such costs already reimbursed must be refunded. Audits for costs incurred on our work performed after fiscal year 2005 have not yet been completed. If an audit conducted on our business uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety or illegal acts were made against us. Our senior management is important to our customer relationships and overall business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team have established and maintain with government defense and intelligence personnel contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and to identify new business opportunities. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and these officers could terminate their employment with us at any time. 18 The loss of any of our executive officers or members of our senior management could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise manage our business. We must recruit and retain highly skilled employees to succeed in our competitive and labor-intensive business. An integral part of our success is our ability to provide employees who have advanced engineering, information technology and technical services skills and who work well with our customers in a government and defense-related environment. These employees are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees, our ability to maintain our competitiveness and grow our business could be negatively affected. In addition, some of our contracts contain provisions requiring us to staff a program with certain personnel the customer considers key to our successful performance under the contract. In the event we are unable to provide these key personnel or acceptable substitutions, the customer may terminate the contract, and we may not be able to recover our costs in the event the contract is terminated. Our business is dependent upon our employees obtaining and maintaining required security clearances. Many of our U.S. government contracts require our employees to maintain various levels of security clearances, and we are required to maintain certain facility security clearances complying with Department of Defense requirements. The Department of Defense and intelligence community have strict security clearance requirements for personnel who work on classified programs. Obtaining and maintaining security clearances for employees involves a lengthy process, and it is difficult to identify, recruit and retain employees who already hold security clearances. If our employees are unable to obtain security clearances in a timely manner, or at all, or if our employees who hold security clearances are unable to maintain the clearances or terminate employment with us, the customer whose work requires cleared employees could terminate the contract or decide not to renew it upon its expiration. In addition, we expect that many of the contracts on which we will bid will require us to demonstrate our ability to obtain facility security clearances and perform work with employees who hold specified types of security clearances. To the extent we are not able to obtain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances for a particular contract, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts. Cost over-runs on our contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed amount irrespective of the actual costs we incur and, consequently, we absorb any costs in excess of the fixed amount. Fixed-price contracts represented approximately 58% and 60% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost reimbursable contracts, which are subject to a contract ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. However, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Cost over-runs also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards. See “Item 1. Business — Government Contracts — Government Contract Categories” above. Our quarterly operating results may vary widely. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future. A number of factors cause our revenues, cash flow and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter, including: • fluctuations in revenues derived from fixed-price contracts and contracts with a performance-based fee structure; • commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; 19 • personnel changes among senior U.S. government officials that affect the timing of technology procurement; • changes in policy or budgetary measures that adversely affect government contracts in general; and • increased purchase requests from customers for equipment and materials in connection with the U.S. government’s fiscal year end, which may affect our fiscal fourth quarter operating results. Changes in the volume of services provided under existing contracts and the number of contracts commenced, completed or terminated during any quarter may cause significant variations in our cash flow from operations because a relatively large amount of our expenses are fixed. We incur significant operating expenses during the start-up and early stages of large contracts and typically do not receive corresponding payments in that same quarter. We may also incur significant or unanticipated expenses when contracts expire or are terminated or are not renewed. In addition, payments due to us from government agencies may be delayed due to billing cycles or funding hiatuses as a result of failures of governmental budgets to gain Congressional or administrative approval or implementation in a timely manner. Our earnings and profit margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs and other factors related to our contracts. In general, we perform our developmental work under cost reimbursable and fixed-price development contracts and our production work under fixed-price production contracts. See “Item 1. Business — Government Contracts — Government Contract Categories” above. We typically experience lower profit margins under cost reimbursable and fixed-price development contracts than under fixed-price production contracts. In general, if the volume of services we perform under cost reimbursable and fixed-price development contracts increases in proportion to the volume of services we perform under fixed-price production contracts, our operating results may suffer. In addition, our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the costs we incur in contract performance, our achievement of other contract performance objectives, and the stage of our performance at which our right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award-fee contracts, is finally determined. We derive significant revenues from contracts awarded through a competitive bidding process. We derive significant revenues from U.S. government contracts that were awarded through a competitive bidding process. Revenues from competitive-bid contracts constituted approximately 48% and 45% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. Much of the business that we expect to seek in the foreseeable future likely will be awarded through competitive bidding. Competitive bidding presents a number of risks, including: • the need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and cost over-runs; • the substantial cost and managerial time and effort that we spend to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us; • the need to accurately estimate the resources and cost structure that will be required to service any contract we are awarded; and • the expense and delay that may arise if our competitors protest or challenge contract awards made to us pursuant to competitive bidding, and the risk that any such protest or challenge could result in the resubmission of bids on modified specifications, or in termination, reduction or modification of the awarded contract. 20 We may not be provided the opportunity to bid on contracts that are held by other companies and are scheduled to expire if the government determines to extend the existing contract. If we are unable to win particular contracts that are awarded through a competitive bidding process, we may not be able to operate in the market for services that are provided under those contracts for a number of years. If we are unable to consistently win new contract awards over any extended period, our business and prospects will be adversely affected. We face competition from other firms, many of which have substantially greater resources. We operate in highly competitive markets and generally encounter intense competition to win contracts. We compete with many other firms, ranging from smaller specialized and medium-sized firms such as Applied Signal Technologies, Southwest Research Institute, and Sierra Nevada Corp., to large diversified firms such as Boeing, BAE Systems, General Dynamics, Harris Corporation, L-3 Communications, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Raytheon, many of which have substantially greater financial, management and marketing resources than we have. Our competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence, price and the availability of key professional personnel. In order to successfully secure contracts when competing with larger, well-financed companies, we may be forced to agree to contractual terms which provide for lower aggregate payments to us over the life of the contract, which could adversely affect our margins. In addition, larger diversified competitors serving as prime contractors may be able to supply underlying products and services from affiliated entities, which would prevent us from competing for subcontracting opportunities on these contracts. Our failure to compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. In addition, our competitors have established or may establish relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge. See “Item 1. Business — Competition” above. Our business depends upon our relationships with, and the performance of, our prime contractors. Revenues from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors represented 24% and 17% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a substantial portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or other relationships with us, either because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors, or because they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business, or if the government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs or does not award them new contracts. In addition, on those contracts for which we are not the prime contractor, the U.S. government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our performance as a subcontractor. A prime contractor’s performance deficiencies or government budgetary or funding constraints could adversely affect our status as a subcontractor on the program, jeopardize our ability to collect award or incentive fees, cause customers to delay payments, and result in contract termination. If our subcontractors or suppliers fail to perform their contractual obligations, our contract performance and our ability to obtain future business could be materially and adversely affected. Many of our contracts involve subcontracts with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services we must provide to our customers. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of the work performed, customer concerns about a subcontractor’s performance, extension of existing task orders or issuance of new task orders under a subcontract, or hiring of each other’s personnel. A failure by one or more of our subcontractors to timely provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services may materially and adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations as the prime contractor. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability, damage our reputation, distract management’s attention from the operation of our business and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, a delay in our ability to obtain components and equipment parts from our suppliers may affect our ability to meet our customers’ needs and may have an adverse effect upon our profitability. 21 Our employees or subcontractors may engage in misconduct or other improper activities. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. In addition, from time to time, we enter into arrangements with subcontractors to bid on and execute particular contracts or programs and we are exposed to the risk that fraud or other misconduct or improper activities by subcontractor personnel may occur. Misconduct by our employees or subcontractors could include intentional failures to comply with laws, procurement regulations or the terms of contracts that we receive. Misconduct by our employees or subcontractors could also involve the improper collection, handling or use of our customers’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation. As a result of employee or subcontractor misconduct, we could face fines and penalties, loss of security clearance, and/or suspension or debarment from performing U.S. government contracts. It is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or subcontractors. The precautions we take to prevent and detect such activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses and such misconduct by employees or subcontractors could result in serious civil or criminal penalties or sanctions and greatly harm our reputation. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. During the five fiscal years ended September 30, 2008, our revenues increased at an average compounded annual growth rate of 33.9%. Sustaining our growth has placed significant demands on our management, as well as our administrative, operational and financial resources. For us to continue our growth, we must continue to update our operational, financial and management information systems and expand, motivate and manage our workforce. If we are unable to manage our growth while maintaining our quality of service and profit margins, or if new systems that we implement to assist in managing our growth do not produce the expected benefits, our business prospects, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. Our international business poses potentially greater risks than our domestic business. International sales represented approximately 8% and 6% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and September 30, 2007, respectively. Our international business tends to have more risk than our domestic business due to the greater potential for volatility in foreign economic and political environments, including changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets. International transactions frequently involve increased financial and legal risks arising in part from laws, regulations and customs differing from or in conflict with U.S. laws, regulations or customs, stringent contractual terms and conditions, and laws and regulations governing U.S. imports and exports. We currently do not have any significant foreign currency guarantees, however, if in the future we are required to guarantee certain purchase guarantees in foreign currencies, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our operations. We may not be able to receive or retain the necessary licenses or authorizations required to sell our systems and provide services overseas. All of our military and commercial products are subject to the U.S. export laws and regulations. Exports of commercial products, software, technology and services are subject to controls under the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and exports of military products, software, technical data and services are subject to controls under the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). Export activities subject to these controls include commercial marketing efforts and sales to foreign government and foreign companies, Foreign Military Sales to foreign governments, participation in foreign trade shows, working with brokers/agents, procurements involving foreign companies or companies with foreign locations, shipments of products, software and information (including U.S. government inventory) to U.S. government facilities overseas, and the hiring of foreign persons to work as employees and contractors in our facilities. The U.S. Departments of Commerce and State are the final authorizing authority for all exports. Export requests are reviewed by various government agencies for a number of reasons, including their impact on U.S. national security and foreign policy goals. Any request that does not support or further these goals may be denied or prohibited. Our ability to export is dependent upon our ability to obtain the appropriate export authorization from the U.S. government for our activities. Export authorizations are strictly dependent upon current U.S. government export policies regarding the specific technology or product and the country(ies) involved. 22 Our systems and products may be rendered obsolete if we are unable to adapt to the rapid technological changes in our industry. The rapid development of technology, including that in the defense and intelligence industry, as well as rapidly changing demands for new or different technologies in reaction to government defense and intelligence needs, continually affects system designs and product applications and may directly impact the performance of our systems and products. We may not be able to successfully maintain or improve the effectiveness of our existing systems, identify new opportunities, or continue to have the necessary financial resources to design and develop new systems or products in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, systems or products manufactured by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. If any of these events occur, our business prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers for specific components, and if our supplies are interrupted, we may not be able to obtain substitute suppliers and manufacturers on terms that are as favorable to us. Although we generally use standard parts and components for our systems, we rely on non-affiliated suppliers for certain components and licensed technology that are incorporated in all of our systems. If these suppliers or manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or quality assurance difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships, we will be required to quickly locate alternative sources of supply. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of these components, if and as required in the future, entails a number of risks, including: • delays in delivery or shortages in components or licensed technology could interrupt and delay production and result in cancellations of orders for our systems; • alternative suppliers could increase component prices significantly; and • we may not be able to develop alternative sources for the components or licensed technology. Our system design and development activities rely on extensive use of advanced components for hardware and software. Our system design and development activities rely on extensive use of purchased hardware components and software. The hardware we generally use includes receivers, analog converters, antennas, radio frequency distribution systems, servers and disk drives, as well as piece parts for specified purpose design. If any of the hardware we use becomes obsolete prematurely or fails to perform as expected, we would have to find replacement hardware, and that could result in added expenses, schedule or delivery delays and customer dissatisfaction. Software utilized by us consists generally of widely used commercial software products and more specific use software licensed from other companies. Widely used commercial software is generally upgraded frequently. If our customers do not agree to regular upgrades of the systems we provide using this software, the systems may become obsolete and could result in customer dissatisfaction and cancellation or non-renewal of orders. In the event that we lose access to the more specific use software due to a dispute with the licensor or other reasons, or if the software manufacturer refuses specific upgrades, we would have to find a replacement for the software containing the necessary functionality, which could result in unplanned expenses, system problems and customer dissatisfaction. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to meet the changing needs of our customers. Virtually all of the systems designed and sold by us are highly engineered and require sophisticated design, software implementation and system integration techniques and capabilities. The system and program needs of our government customers regularly change and evolve. There is no assurance that we will at all times have at our disposal the engineering, technical and manufacturing capabilities necessary to meet these evolving needs. 23 We may be liable for system and service failures. We design, implement and maintain communications and information technology systems that are often critical to our customers’ operations, including the operations of government defense and intelligence agencies and their personnel. We have experienced and may in the future experience some system and service failures, schedule or delivery delays and other problems in connection with our work. If our systems, services, products or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet customers’ expectations, we may: • lose revenues due to adverse customer reaction; • be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge; • receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; or • suffer claims for substantial damages. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties, contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if they result in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work or canceling or failing to renew contracts. While many of our contracts limit our liability for damages that may arise from negligence in rendering services to customers, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages if we are sued. Furthermore, our errors and omissions and product liability insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims. Successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management and may harm our reputation in the industry. In certain new business areas, including in the area of homeland security, we may not be able to obtain sufficient indemnification or insurance and may decide not to accept or solicit business in these areas. Security breaches by us could adversely affect our business. Many of the programs we support and systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other classified government functions. A security breach by us or our employees in the course of our development, production or service activities could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on critical classified systems for U.S. government customers. Losses that we could incur from such a security breach could exceed the policy limits under our errors and omissions or product liability insurance. Developing new technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance. We are exposed to liabilities that are unique to the systems and services we provide. A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing and manufacturing advanced communications and technology systems and products used in military defense and intelligence systems and products. New technologies are often untested or unproven. In addition, from time to time, we have employees deployed on-site at active military installations or locations. Although indemnification by the U.S. government may be available in some instances for our defense activities, U.S. government indemnification may not be available to cover potential claims or liabilities resulting from a failure of technologies developed by us and deployed in our systems. 24 Substantial claims resulting from an accident in excess of U.S. government indemnity and our insurance coverage could harm our financial condition and operating results. Moreover, any accident or incident for which we are liable, even if fully insured, could negatively affect our reputation, thereby making it more difficult for us to compete effectively, and could significantly impact the cost and availability of adequate insurance in the future. Our failure to protect our proprietary technology may adversely affect our business and impair our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology developed by highly skilled employees who are experienced in designing and developing complex communications and information technology systems. We rely primarily on trade secrets and confidentiality procedures to protect our proprietary technology. These measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our systems or products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology, potentially resulting in a loss of competitive advantage and decreased revenues. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or otherwise gaining access to our technology, which could harm our competitive position and our results of operations. The U.S. government’s right to use technology developed by us limits our intellectual property rights. We do not have the right to prohibit the U.S. government from using certain technologies developed by us or to prohibit third parties, including our competitors, from using those technologies to provide products and services at the request of the U.S. government. The U.S. government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under U.S. government contracts. We are free to commercially exploit those government funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users thereof, but we are not assured of success in doing so. We may be affected by intellectual property infringement claims. Our business operations rely extensively on procuring and deploying intellectual property. Our employees develop some of the software solutions and other forms of intellectual property that we use to provide information products and solutions to our customers, but we also procure a significant amount of the technology used in our business from primary vendors. While we require assignments of rights by our employees and see that licenses are in place for third-party technology, we may in the future be subject to claims from our employees or third parties who assert that software solutions and other forms of intellectual property that we use in delivering services and solutions to our customers infringe upon the intellectual property rights of such employees or third parties. If our vendors, employees or third parties assert claims that we or our customers are infringing on their intellectual property, we could incur substantial costs to defend these claims and management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business. In addition, if any of these infringement claims are ultimately successful, we could be required to: • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged software or technology; • obtain a license or additional licenses involving additional costs for use; or • redesign systems and products that rely on the challenged software or technology. Risks Related to Accounting Matters and Our Internal Control over Financial Reporting If we fail to comply with requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. 25 Rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require us to assess our internal control over financial reporting annually. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex. They require significant documentation, testing, and possible remediation of any significant deficiencies in and/or material weaknesses of our internal controls in order to meet the detailed standards under these rules. We have evaluated our internal controls over financial reporting as effective as of September 30, 2008. See Item 9A – Controls and Procedures – Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Although we have evaluated our internal controls as effective as of September 30, 2008, in future fiscal years, we may encounter unanticipated delays or problems in assessing our internal controls as effective or in completing our assessments by the required dates. In addition, we cannot assure you that our independent registered public accountants will attest our internal controls as effective in future fiscal years. If we cannot assess our internal controls as effective, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. We have incurred substantial operating costs in connection with the completion of our implementation and assessment and the auditor attestation under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act with respect to each of our fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, and we expect to incur substantial operating expenses in meeting the requirements relating to internal control over financial reporting in the future. In addition, no assurance can be made that the operating expenses we incur in the future with respect to internal controls compliance will not exceed management’s expectations. We may incur material impairment charges related to mergers and acquisitions. We have recognized goodwill of $173.9 million and $28.3 million of other amortizable long-lived assets, including customer-related and other intangible assets in connection with mergers and acquisitions as of September 30, 2008. In accordance with accounting rules, the goodwill is reviewed annually unless circumstances or events indicate that an impairment test should be performed sooner, and other long-lived assets are reviewed at the time circumstances or events indicate that an impairment test should be performed to determine if there has been any impairment to their value. The review for impairment is based on several factors requiring judgment. Principally, a decrease in expected reporting unit cash flow, loss of expected contracts or customer relationships, or a change in market conditions may indicate potential impairment of recorded goodwill or other long-lived assets. We performed the test during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 and found no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill or intangibles. In fiscal year 2007, we recognized a loss of $6.7 million with respect to the impairment of certain customer-related intangible assets originally recorded in connection with our acquisitions of SDRC, ProDesign and IRIS. Impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill, in the future could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be required to reduce our profit margins on contracts on which we use the percentage-of-completion accounting method. We record sales and profits on many of our contracts using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. As a result, revisions made to our estimates of sales and profits are recorded in the period in which the conditions that require such revisions become known and can be estimated. Although we believe that our profit margins are fairly stated and that adequate provisions for losses for our fixed-price contracts are recorded in our financial statements, as required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we cannot assure you that our contract profit margins will not decrease or our loss provisions will not increase materially in the future. Additional Risks Related to Our Commercial Business and Operations Risks that apply to our company as a whole also apply to our commercial business, and many of the same risks that can affect our government work can also affect our commercial work. There are additional risk factors, however, that are unique to our commercial business and operations. Our commercial business is in its infancy. Our reputation was built within the government contracting arena. We do not have established credentials within the commercial marketplace, including contacts. The expansion of our footprint in the commercial world is a new initiative. 26 As a result, our ability to attract commercial customers is very small in comparison with other companies in our industry who have a long-standing presence in the commercial world. Any inability to attract commercial clients means that our commercial business will be curtailed and could potentially disappear, causing harm to our revenues and profits. Our company is structured primarily for doing government business. Historically, a significant portion of our sales have been to the U.S. government and its agencies. The conduct of business, including marketing, bidding, procurement, pricing, contract terms and negotiations, is substantially different between the government and commercial customers. The majority of our personnel who price and negotiate contracts have their experience in the government, not the commercial, arena. Our commercial customers and contracts are fewer, therefore our performance for them is more critical in the commercial marketplace. Our reputation in the commercial marketplace is currently dependent upon the work we do for and the references we receive from a narrow group of clients. Our dependence on large orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. Our success will depend on our continued ability to develop and manage relationships with these significant customers and other customers in the future. There is no assurance that we will be able to diversify our customer base and curtail revenue concentration in the near future, if at all. We cannot be sure that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our systems and services in the same volume as in prior years. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to these customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers, or future price concessions that we may have to make could significantly harm our business. Our commercial contracts may contain provisions that are unfavorable to us. Particularly in work for foreign companies, where the manner of contracting may be very different and the expectations of contractual obligations more onerous on suppliers, we may be faced with risks of doing business that are less favorable than the risks resulting from doing business in the United States. Apart from that, even in the U.S., contracts negotiated between companies are usually a give-and-take prospect, with the side having the greater leverage being able to insist on concessions. While our intent is always only to take on manageable risks, we could encounter situations in the commercial market where our contractual risk is either higher than we would like, or where the risk is so great that we will have to walk away from the opportunity. Either type of situation could negatively affect our revenues and/or our profits. Commercial work is highly dependent upon customer demand. Our ability to attract commercial work is linked to our ability to develop and produce items of value in the commercial marketplace. If customers do not want to buy what we build, if demand for the commercial systems on which we work does not materialize or continue, or if our work on commercial programs is not timely or cost-effective, we will lose any foothold in the commercial market. Commercial work is highly dependent upon the business plans and financial health of the companies who contract with us. Because we do not deal directly with end-users, our ability to obtain and maintain work in the commercial market is solely dependent upon the ability of other companies to do business with us. If these businesses change their market plans or strategy, if they sell off divisions, if they suffer financial set-backs for whatever reason, or if they merge with another company who does not want to continue a particular business sector, our future in the commercial marketplace could be severely curtailed or could disappear. 27 Commercial work in our industry is based upon rapidly changing technology. If we are unable to make investment in constantly updated technology, or if we are unable to find commercial business partners who are willing to bear part of the brunt of financial investment in developing technology, we will be unable to keep up with the changes in product refinement and we will lose our place in the commercial market. Risks Related to Acquisitions We intend to continue to pursue selective acquisitions, which may prove difficult in the current acquisition environment for defense and intelligence businesses. One of our key growth strategies is to pursue selective acquisitions. Since October 1, 2005, we have acquired Radix Technologies, Inc., San Diego Research Center, Inc., and Innovative Research, Ideas and Services Corporation as well as certain assets of Coherent Systems International, Corp. and ProDesign Solutions LLC, and we intend to pursue additional strategic acquisitions in the future. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Current valuations for businesses in the government, defense and intelligence sectors in which we operate are at historically high levels, and there is intense competition from government contractors of all types and sizes, commercial information technology providers, special purpose acquisition companies and private equity firms for acquisition candidates operating in these sectors. In addition, we intend to seek to acquire businesses with specialized technology capabilities and products that complement or expand our existing capabilities and products, businesses that expand our relationships with existing customers, and businesses that offer us opportunities to diversify or expand our customer base. These types of businesses are still in high demand and other prospective purchasers who have substantially greater resources than we do may offer to acquire such businesses upon such economic terms that are hard for us to match. We may not be able to identify and execute suitable acquisitions in the future on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. In addition, given the current economic environment, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to pursue those acquisitions which may have favorable terms. Acquisitions involve costs and other risks, and may not have the benefits we expect. In connection with acquisitions we make, we may incur significant acquisition expenses as well as amortization expenses related to intangible assets. During fiscal year 2007, we recorded a $6.7 million impairment charge for the impairment of customer related intangible assets in connection with our acquisitions of SDRC, ProDesign and IRIS. We may incur significant write-offs in the future for impairment of goodwill or intangible assets associated with companies, businesses or technologies that we acquire. Our operating results could be adversely affected by these expenses and write-offs. Moreover, any acquisition could involve other risks, including: • diversion of management’s attention from existing operations; • potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired companies; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and • financial reporting irregularities as a result of deficient internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures of acquired companies. In addition, the success of our acquisition strategy will depend upon our ability to successfully integrate any businesses we may acquire in the future. The integration of these businesses into our operations may result in unforeseen events or operating difficulties, absorb significant management attention and require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business. These integration difficulties could include: • the integration of personnel with disparate business backgrounds; 28 • the transition to new information systems; • the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations; • the reconciliation of different corporate cultures, pay structures and benefits plans; and • the synchronization of disclosure and financial reporting controls of acquired companies with our controls and, where applicable, improvement of the acquired company’s controls. Since we have surpassed the 750 employee size standard eligibility for new awards under the Small Business Innovative Research (“SBIR”) program, any “small business” company we acquire will likely lose its eligibility to bid on new SBIR contracts once it is acquired by us. In addition, the imposition of Small Business Administration rules requiring small businesses to recertify as to their small business status before award of options or extensions to existing contracts may limit our ability to meet our growth objectives from acquired small businesses. For these or other reasons, we may be unable to retain key customers of acquired companies or to retain or renew contracts of acquired companies. Moreover, any acquired business may fail to generate the revenue or net income we expected or produce the efficiencies or cost-savings that we anticipated. Any of these outcomes could materially adversely affect our operating results. Acquisitions may require us to incur debt or issue dilutive equity. Our acquisition strategy may require us to incur debt or sell equity, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. Any debt we would incur to finance acquisitions would likely involve restrictions on our operations and require us to maintain certain financial ratios and secure the debt with our assets, such as accounts receivable. Risk Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our current and former executive officers, whose interests may not be aligned with yours, may be able to control the vote on matters requiring stockholder approval. As of November 18, 2008 our current executive officers (Terry L. Collins, Victor F. Sellier, Kerry M. Rowe and Aaron N. Daniels) collectively held approximately 24% of our total outstanding shares of common stock entitled to vote on matters requiring stockholder approval and, together with former executive officers Thomas E. Murdock and S. Kent Rockwell, our current and former executive officers held approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock entitled to vote on such matters as of November 18, 2008. Accordingly, our current and former executive officers as a group may control the vote on matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. The interests of our executive officers may not be fully aligned with yours. Although there is no agreement among our executive officers with respect to the voting of their shares, this concentration of ownership may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company, and make transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of all or some of our executive officers. These transactions might include proxy contests, tender offers, mergers or other purchases of common stock that could give you the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 