Item 1A. Risk Factors We are impacted by events and conditions that affect the light vehicle, medium/heavy vehicle and off-highway markets that we serve, as well as by factors specific to Dana. Among the risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the following, many of which are interrelated. Risk Factors Related to the Markets We Serve Continuing negative economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere could have a substantial effect on our business. Our business is tied to general economic and industry conditions as demand for vehicles depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit and the cost of fuel. Current economic conditions have reduced demand for most vehicles. This has had and could continue to have a substantial impact on our business. While we expect a modest economic recovery in 2010, negative economic conditions could continue to impact our business. The overall market for new vehicle sales in the United States declined significantly in 2009 and while we expect partial recovery in 2010, our customers could reduce their vehicle production in North America and, as a result, demand for our products would continue to be adversely affected. Demand in our non-U.S. markets could also decline in response to overall economic conditions, including changes in the global economy, the limited availability of credit and fuel costs. Our customers and suppliers could experience severe economic constraints in the future, including bankruptcy. Adverse global economic conditions and further deterioration could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We could be adversely impacted by the loss of any of our significant customers, changes in their requirements for our products or changes in their financial condition. We are reliant upon sales to several significant customers. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 56% of our overall revenue in 2009. In the U.S., the light vehicle industry faces an uncertain future. GM and Chrysler have already required assistance through government loans and other companies in the light vehicle industry may seek government assistance. Changes in our business relationships with any of our large customers or in the timing, size and continuation of their various programs could have a material adverse impact on us. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of business with respect to one or more of their vehicle models on which we have a high component content, or a further significant decline in the production levels of such vehicles would continue to negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are continually bidding on new business with these customers, as well as seeking to diversify our customer base, but there is no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Further, to the extent that the financial condition of our largest customers deteriorates, including possible bankruptcies, mergers or liquidations, or their sales otherwise decline, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by changes in international legislative and political conditions. We operate in 23 countries around the world and we depend on significant foreign suppliers and vendors. Legislative and political activities within the countries where we conduct business, particularly in emerging markets and less developed countries, could adversely impact our ability to operate in those countries. The political situation in some countries creates a risk of the seizure of our assets. The political environment in some of these countries could create instability in our contractual relationships with no effective legal safeguards for resolution of these issues. 11 Table of Contents We may be adversely impacted by the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in the other countries in which we do business. Approximately 54% of our sales in 2009 were from operations located in countries other than the U.S. Currency variations can have an impact on our results (expressed in U.S. dollars). Currency variations can also adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from affiliates or other suppliers located outside of the U.S. While the U.S. dollar has generally weakened over the past year, strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and many other currencies of countries in which we have operations could adversely affect our results reported in U.S. dollars. We use a combination of natural hedging techniques and financial derivatives to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. We may be adversely impacted by new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations related to increased fuel economy standards and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones. It is anticipated that the number and extent of governmental regulations related to fuel economy standards and greenhouse gas emissions, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. In the U.S., the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 requires significant increases in the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) requirements applicable to cars and light trucks beginning with the 2011 model year. In addition, a growing number of states are adopting regulations that establish carbon dioxide emission standards that effectively impose similarly increased fuel economy standards for new vehicles sold in those states. Compliance costs for our customers could require them to alter their spending, research and development plans, curtail sales, cease production or exit certain market segments characterized by lower fuel efficiency. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Company-Specific Risk Factors We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions. Although our process includes planning for potential negative consequences, the cost-reduction actions may expose us to additional production risk and could adversely affect our sales, profitability and ability to attract and retain employees. We have been reducing costs in all of our businesses and have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations and reduced our employee population. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by many factors including our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts, our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete, delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, decline in employee morale and the potential inability to meet operational targets due to our inability to retain or recruit key employees. Our amended Exit Facility contains covenants that may constrain our growth. The amended financial covenants in our Exit Facility may hinder our ability to finance future operations, make potential acquisitions or investments, meet capital needs or engage in business activities that may be in our best interest such as future issuances of our common stock. These restrictions could hinder us from responding to changing business and economic conditions and from implementing our business plan. We may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in our amended Exit Facility. The financial covenants in our amended Exit Facility require us to achieve certain financial ratios based on levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain levels of restructuring and reorganization related costs (Adjusted EBITDA), as defined in the amended Exit 12 Table of Contents Facility. In November 2008, certain covenants of the Exit Facility were amended to allow for future compliance. A failure to comply with these or other covenants in the amended Exit Facility could, if we were unable to obtain a waiver or another amendment of the covenant terms, cause an event of default that could cause our loans under the amended Exit Facility to become immediately due and payable. In addition, additional waivers or amendments could substantially increase our cost of borrowing. We operate as a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash to satisfy the obligations of the holding company. Dana Holding Corporation is a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations depends on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. In addition, the payments of funds in the form of dividends, intercompany payments, tax sharing payments and otherwise may be subject to restrictions under the laws of the countries of incorporation of our subsidiaries. Labor stoppages or work slowdowns at Dana, key suppliers or our customers could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. We and our customers rely on our respective suppliers to provide parts needed to maintain production levels. We all rely on workforces represented by labor unions. Workforce disputes that result in work stoppages or slowdowns could disrupt operations of all of these businesses which in turn could have a material adverse effect on demand for the products we supply our customers. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to recover portions of our commodity costs (including costs of steel, other raw materials and energy) from our customers. We continue to work with our customers to recover a greater portion of our material costs. While we have achieved some success in these efforts to date, there is no assurance that commodity costs will not adversely impact our profitability in the future. We could be adversely affected if we experience shortages of components from our suppliers. A substantial portion of our annual cost of sales is driven by the purchase of goods and services. To manage and reduce these costs, we have been consolidating our supplier base. As a result, we are dependent on single sources of supply for some components of our products. We select our suppliers based on total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition, and we expect that they will be able to support our needs. However, there is no assurance that adverse financial conditions, including bankruptcies of our suppliers, reduced levels of production or other problems experienced by our suppliers will not result in shortages or delays in their supply of components to us or even in the financial collapse of one or more such suppliers. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and were unable to procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect our revenues, margins and customer relations. We could be adversely impacted by the costs of environmental, health, safety and product liability compliance. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries that govern emissions to the air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Historically, other than the EPA settlement for Hamilton (see Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8), environmental costs related to our former and existing operations have not been 13 Table of Contents material. However, there is no assurance that the costs of complying with current environmental laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future will not increase and adversely impact us. There is also no assurance that the costs of complying with current laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future, that relate to health, safety and product liability matters will not adversely impact us. There is also a risk of warranty and product liability claims, as well as product recalls, in the commercial and automotive vehicle industry if our products fail to perform to specifications or cause property damage, injury or death. (See Note 16 of our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on warranties.) Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. Net operating tax loss carryforwards (NOLs) approximating $1,600 were available at December 31, 2009 to reduce future U.S income tax liabilities. Our ability to utilize these NOLs may be limited as a result of certain change of control provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (IRC). We emerged from Chapter 11 with NOLs of approximately $580, which are limited to annual utilization of $85. The additional NOLs accumulated since emergence are not subject to limitation as of the end of 2009. However, there can be no assurance that trading in our shares will not effect another change in control under the IRC which would further limit our ability to utilize our available NOLs. Such limitations may cause us to pay income taxes earlier and in greater amounts than would be the case if the NOLs were not subject to limitation. Risk Factors Related to our Securities Volatility is possible in the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. As the price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange constantly changes, it is impossible to predict whether the price of our common stock will rise or fall. Trading prices of our common stock will be influenced by our financial condition, operating results and prospects and by economic, financial and other factors, such as prevailing interest rates, interest rate volatility and changes in the automotive industry and competitors. In addition, general market conditions or our issuance of substantial amounts of common stock could affect the price of shares of our common stock. Provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Shareholders Agreement may discourage a takeover attempt. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Dana. Such provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, limiting who may call special stockholders’ meetings and eliminating stockholder action by written consent, together with the terms of our outstanding preferred stock, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. In addition, our Shareholders Agreement with the current holders of our Series A Preferred Stock provides that such holders will have approval rights with respect to certain corporate transactions, including certain transactions involving a change of control of Dana. The existence of such approval rights could discourage a takeover attempt. Holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have limited approval rights with respect to our business and may have conflicts of interest with holders of our common stock in the future. Under the terms of our Shareholders Agreement, the current holders of our Series A Preferred Stock have limited approval rights with respect to certain corporate transactions, including an issuance of our common stock at a price below the current market price (as defined in the Shareholders 14 Table of Contents Agreement). There can be no assurance that they will waive their rights or grant approvals in respect of future transactions that may be in the best interests of the holders of our common stock. Our adoption of fresh start accounting could result in additional asset impairments and may make comparisons of our financial position and results of operations to prior periods more difficult. As required by GAAP, we adopted fresh start accounting effective February 1, 2008. This adoption increased the value of our long-lived assets. Subsequent developments in our markets resulted in impairments of the fresh start values during 2008 and 2009 and could result in additional impairments in future periods. Since fresh start accounting required us to adjust all of our assets and liabilities to their respective fair values, the consolidated financial statements for periods after the emergence will not be comparable to those of the periods prior to the emergence which are presented on an historical basis. Fresh start accounting may make it more difficult to compare our post-emergence financial position and results of operations to those in the pre-emergence periods which could limit interest and investment in our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments -None- 