risk factors in Item 1A. Non-U.S. sales were $4,190 of our 2005 consolidated sales. Non-U.S. net income was $180, as compared to a consolidated net loss of $1,605 in 2005. These amounts include $14 of equity in earnings of international affiliates. More information can be found in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Customer Dependence We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them. Ford and General Motors were the only individual customers accounting for 10% or more of our consolidated sales in 2005. We have been supplying products to these companies and their subsidiaries for many years. As a percentage of total sales from continuing operations, sales to Ford were approximately 26% in 2005, 2004 and 2003; sales to General Motors were 11%, 11% and 10% in 2005, 2004 and 2003 while sales to Daimler Chrysler were 6%, 9% and 12% in 2005, 2004 and 2003. PACCAR, Navistar, Renault-Nissan, Volvo Truck and Toyota represent our next five largest customers and in the aggregate accounted for approximately 20% and 18% of our 2005 and 2004 revenues. Loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to Ford, General Motors or other large volume customers would have a significant adverse effect on our financial results until such lost sales volume could be replaced. There would be no assurance that the lost volume would be replaced. We continue to work to diversify our customer base and geographic footprint. 6 Table of Contents Products Sales of our business units by class of product for the last three years are as follows: Percentage of Consolidated Sales 2005 2004 2003 ASG Traction (Axle) 28.3 % 29.4 % 30.2 % Torque (Driveshaft) 13.1 13.4 13.3 Structures 14.6 13.8 12.7 Sealing 7.8 8.1 8.3 Thermal 3.6 4.0 5.3 Other 1.5 0.5 0.6 Total ASG 68.9 69.2 70.4 HVTSG Traction (Axle) 23.5 22.4 19.5 Torque (Driveshaft) 3.4 3.4 3.5 Other 3.8 3.8 5.4 Total HVTSG 30.7 29.6 28.4 Other 0.4 1.2 1.2 TOTAL 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Sources and Availability of Raw Materials We use a variety of raw materials in the production of our products, including steel and products containing steel, forgings, castings and bearings. Other commodity purchases include aluminum, brass, copper and plastics. Our operating units purchase most of the raw materials they require from suppliers located within their local geographic regions. Generally, these materials are available from multiple qualified sources in quantities sufficient for our needs. However, some of our operations are dependent on single sources for some raw materials as a result of the consolidations we have been making in our supply base in an effort to manage and reduce our production costs. While our suppliers have generally been able to support our needs, our operations may experience shortages and delays in the supply of raw material, from time to time, due to strong demand, capacity limitations and other problems experienced by the suppliers. A significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers could adversely impact our ability to meet our production schedules and to deliver our products to our customers when they have requested them. We face supplier issues related to our bankruptcy regarding our suppliers’ concern over non-payment of pre-petition services and products and the uncertainty created by a bankruptcy filing. This could affect our ability to negotiate new contracts and terms with our suppliers on an ongoing basis. High steel and other raw material costs, primarily resulting from limited capacity and high demand had a major adverse effect on our results of operations during 2005, as discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Seasonality Our businesses are generally not seasonal. However, our sales are closely related to the production schedules of our OEM customers and historically those schedules have been weakest in the third quarter of the year. Additionally, international customers typically shut down production during portions of the second and fourth quarters of each year. 7 Table of Contents Backlog A substantial amount of the business we are awarded by OEMs is granted well in advance of the program launch. These awards typically extend through the life of the given platform. Our backlog, which reflects estimated future revenues from signed contracts, is based on the projected remaining volume under these programs. See New Business in Item 7 for additional comments related to the awarding of business. Competition Within each of our market segments, we compete with a variety of independent suppliers and distributors, as well as the in-house operations of certain OEMs. We compete primarily on the basis of price, product quality, technology, delivery and service. A summary by operating segment is set forth below: Automotive Systems Group — We are one of the primary independent suppliers in torque and traction technologies (axles, driveshafts and drivelines), structural solutions (frames) and system integration technologies (including advanced modularity concepts and systems). Our primary competitors include American Axle, in-house operations of DaimlerChrysler, GKN, Magna, Tower Automotive, ThyssenKrupp, Visteon and ZF Group. We are also one of the leading independent suppliers of sealing systems (gaskets and cam covers) and thermal management (thermal acoustical shields, heat exchangers and small radiators). On a global basis, our primary competitors in sealing systems are ElringKlinger, Federal-Mogul and Freudenberg NOK. Competitors in thermal management include Behr, Delphi, Modine and Valeo. Heavy Vehicle Technologies and Systems Group — We are one of the primary independent suppliers of axles, driveshafts and other products for both the medium- and heavy-truck markets, as well as various off-highway segments. We also specialize in the manufacturing of off-highway transmissions. Our primary competition in North America includes ArvinMeritor in the medium- and heavy-truck markets. Major competitors in Europe include OEMs’ vertically integrated operations in the heavy-truck markets, as well as Carraro, ZF Group and OEMs’ vertically integrated operations in the off-highway markets. Patents and Trademarks Our proprietary drivetrain, engine parts, chassis, structural components, fluid power systems and industrial power transmission product lines have strong identities in the markets we serve. Throughout these product lines, we manufacture and sell our products under a number of patents that have been obtained over a period of years and expire at various times. We consider each of these patents to be of value and aggressively protect our rights throughout the world against infringement. We are involved with many product lines and the loss or expiration of any particular patent would not materially affect our sales and profits. We own or have licensed numerous trademarks that are registered in many countries, enabling us to market our products worldwide. For example, our Spicer®, Victor Reinz® and Long® trademarks are widely recognized in their respective industries. Research and Development From the company’s introduction of the automotive universal joint in 1904, Dana has been focused on technological innovation. Our objective is to be an essential partner to our customers and remain highly focused on offering superior product quality and technologically advanced products competitive prices. To enhance quality and reduce costs, we use statistical process control, cellular manufacturing, flexible regional production and assembly, global sourcing and extensive employee training. We engage in ongoing engineering, research and development activities to improve the reliability, performance and cost-effectiveness of our existing products and to design and develop innovative products that meet customer requirements for new applications. We are integrating related operations to create a more innovative environment, speed product development, maximize efficiency and improve communication and information sharing among our research and development operations. At December 31, 2005, 8 Table of Contents ASG had six technical centers and HVTSG had two. Our spending on engineering, research and development and quality control programs was $275 in 2005, $269 in 2004 and $252 in 2003. Our engineers are helping to develop and commercialize is fuel cell components and sub-systems by working with a number of leading light-vehicle manufacturers in this area. Specifically, we are developing fuel-cell stack components, such as metallic and composite bipolar plates; balance-of-plant technologies, particularly thermal management sub-systems with heat exchangers and electric pumps; and fuel-processor components and sub-systems. Employment Our worldwide employment (including consolidated subsidiaries) was approximately 44,000 people at December 31, 2005. This includes approximately 9,800 employees in the three businesses (engine hard parts, fluid products and pump products) to be divested, which are classified as discontinued operations, as well as 1,000 employees that could be affected by workforce reductions and plant closures in 2006. Environmental Compliance We make capital expenditures in the normal course of business as necessary to ensure that our facilities are in compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. The cost of environmental compliance was not a material part of our capital expenditures and did not have a materially adverse effect on our earnings or competitive position in 2005. We do not anticipate that future environmental compliance costs will be material. See Notes 1 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Executive Officers The following table contains information about our current executive officers. Messrs. Burns, DeBacker, Hiltz, Miller and Stanage are members of Dana’s Executive Committee, which is responsible for our corporate strategies and partnership relations and for the development of our people, policies and philosophies. Name Age Title Michael J. Burns 54 Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer Michael L. DeBacker 59 Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Richard J. Dyer 50 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Kenneth A. Hiltz 53 Chief Financial Officer Paul E. Miller 54 Vice President — Purchasing Nick L. Stanage 47 President — Heavy Vehicle Products Mr. Burns has been our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), President and a director of the company since March 2004 and our Chairman of the Board and Chief Operating Officer since April 2004. He was previously President of General Motors Europe from 1998 to 2004. Mr. DeBacker has been a Vice President of Dana since 1994 and our General Counsel and Secretary since 2000. He is also our Chief Compliance Officer. Mr. Dyer has been a Vice President since December 2005 and our Chief Accounting Officer since March 2005. He was Director of Corporate Accounting from 2002 to 2005 and Manager, Corporate Accounting from 1997 to 2002. Mr. Hiltz has been our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) since March 2006. He served as CFO at Foster Wheeler Ltd. (a global provider of engineering services and products) from 2003 to 2004 and as Chief Restructuring Officer and CFO of Hayes Lemmerz International, Inc. (a global supplier of automotive and commercial wheels, brakes, powertrain, suspension, structural and other lightweight components) from 2001 to 2003. Mr. Hiltz has been a Managing Director of AlixPartners LLC (a financial advisory firm specializing in performance improvement and corporate turnarounds) since 1991. 9 Table of Contents Mr. Miller has been our Vice President — Purchasing since joining Dana in May 2004. He was formerly employed by Delphi Corporation (a global supplier of vehicle electronics, transportation components, integrated systems and modules and other electronic technology) where he was employed at Delphi Packard Electric Systems as Business Line Executive, Electrical/ Electronic Distribution Systems from 2002 to 2004, and at Delphi Delco Electronics Systems as General Director — Sales, Marketing and Service from 2001 to 2002 and Executive Director International Regions — Sales and Marketing from 1998 to 2001. Mr. Stanage has been President, Heavy Vehicle Products since December 2005. He joined Dana in August 2005 as Vice President and General Manager of our Commercial Vehicle Group. He was formerly employed by Honeywell International (a diversified technology and manufacturing leader, serving customers worldwide with aerospace products and services; control technologies for buildings, homes and industry; automotive products; turbochargers; and specialty materials), where he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Engine Systems & Accessories Division during 2005, and in the Customer Products Group as Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain & Technology from 2003 to 2005 and Vice President, Operations from 2001 to 2003. All of our executive officers were re-appointed to their positions by our Board at its annual organizational meeting in April 2006 and serve at the Board’s pleasure. Available Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on or through our Internet website (http://www.dana.com/investors) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also post our Board Governance Principles, Directors’ Code of Conduct, Board Committee membership lists and charters, Standards of Business Conduct and other corporate governance materials at this website address. Copies of these posted materials are available in print, free of charge, to any shareholder upon request from: Investor Relations Department, P.O. Box 1000, Toledo, Ohio 43697; or via telephone at 419-535-4635 or e-mail at InvestorRelations@dana.com. Item 1A. Risk Factors General We may be impacted by events and conditions that affect the automotive, commercial vehicle and off-highway industries that we serve, as well as by factors specific to our company. Some risks are interrelated and it is possible that some risks could trigger other risks described below. Among the risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the following. Dana Corporation and forty of its wholly-owned subsidiaries filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on March 3, 2006 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy Cases. For the duration of the Bankruptcy Cases, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. These risks include our ability to continue as a going concern; operate within the restrictions and the liquidity limitations of the DIP facility; obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions filed in the Bankruptcy Cases from time to time; develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization; obtain and maintain normal terms with suppliers and service providers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; attract, motivate and retain key employees; attract and retain customers; and fund and execute our business plan. We will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of the creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Bankruptcy Cases that may be inconsistent with our plans. 10 Table of Contents These risks and uncertainties could affect our businesses and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the Bankruptcy Cases could adversely affect our sales and relationships with our customers, as well as with suppliers and employees, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Also, pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we need Bankruptcy Court approval for transactions outside the ordinary course of business, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy Cases, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the reorganization process will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations and there is no certainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of the Chapter 11 filing, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating under the protection of Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code, and subject to Bankruptcy Court approval or otherwise as permitted in the normal course of business, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities for amounts other than those reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Further, a plan of reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in the consolidated historical financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a plan of reorganization. The DIP facility includes financial and other covenants that impose substantial restrictions on the Debtors’ financial and business operations. The DIP facility includes financial covenants that, among other things, require us to achieve certain levels of EBITDAR (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and restructuring and reorganization related costs, as defined in the facility). For additional information about the financial covenants, see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to achieve the results that are contemplated in our business plan, we may be unable to comply with the EBITDAR covenant. Furthermore, the DIP facility restricts our ability, among other things, to contract or incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments (including acquisitions) or sell assets. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the DIP facility and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment of the DIP facility, an event of default will occur thereunder. The DIP facility contains other events of defaults customary for DIP financings, including a change of control. Our business is subject to being adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the vehicular markets we serve. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on the varying conditions in the global automotive and commercial vehicle OE markets that we serve. Demand in these global automotive, commercial vehicle and off-highway OE markets fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions and is particularly sensitive to changes in interest rate levels and changes in fuel costs. Changes in national and international economic conditions that affect our markets may adversely impact our sales. Higher gasoline prices in 2005 have contributed to weaker demand for certain vehicles for which we supply components, especially full-size sport utility vehicles (SUVs). Continued increases in the price of gasoline could weaken further the demand for such vehicles and accelerate recent consumer interest in crossover utility vehicles (CUVs) in preference to SUVs. This would have an adverse effect on our business, as our content on CUVs is less significant than our content on SUVs. Our sales may be adversely affected by the change in emission standards for commercial vehicles in the U.S. in 2007. More stringent heavy-truck emissions regulations will take effect in 2007 in the U.S. commercial truck market. We believe that 2006 will again be a strong year for the heavy-truck sales in advance of the new standards, which will add cost to the vehicles, but we are projecting that demand will decline significantly in 2007 after the pre-buying, and this decline could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are reliant upon sales to a few significant customers. Sales to Ford, GM and DaimlerChrysler were 43% of our overall revenue in 2005, while sales to PACCAR (Kenworth/ Peterbuilt), International (Navistar), Renault-Nissan, Volvo Truck and Toyota accounted for another 20%. Changes in our business 11 Table of Contents relationships with these customers and in the timing, size and continuation of their various programs could have an adverse impact on us. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of business with respect to one or more of their vehicle models that use our products, or a significant decline in the production levels of such vehicles could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are faced with continued price reduction pressure from our OEM customers. A challenge that we and other suppliers to the vehicular markets face is the effect of continued price reduction pressure from our customers. Our largest customers, the U.S.-based light vehicle OEMs, in particular have experienced market share erosion to non-U.S.-based light vehicle manufacturers over the past few years, which has put pressure on their profitability. In response, they continue to seek price reductions from their suppliers. We could be adversely impacted by changes in the volume and mix of vehicles containing our products. Our results depend not only on the volume of products we sell, but the overall product mix. Certain products are more profitable than others. Shifts in demand away from our higher margin products could adversely affect our business. While we are continually bidding and quoting on new business opportunities to add to our book of new business and are focused on profitable, revenue growth that will generate targeted returns, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Further automotive supplier bankruptcies or labor unrest may disrupt the supply of components to our OEM customers, adversely affecting their demand for our products. The bankruptcy or insolvency of other automotive suppliers or work stoppages or slowdowns due to labor unrest that may affect these suppliers or our OEM customers could lead to supply disruptions that could have an adverse effect on our business. The evolving nature of the competitive environment in the OE automotive and commercial vehicle sectors could adversely affect us. In recent years, the competitive environment among suppliers to the global OE manufacturers has changed significantly as these manufacturers have sought to outsource more vehicular components, modules and systems and to develop suppliers outside the U.S. In addition, these sectors have experienced substantial consolidation. There is no assurance that new or larger competitors will not significantly impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We continue to face high commodity costs (including steel, other raw materials, and energy) that we cannot recoup in our product pricing. Increasing commodity costs continued to have a significant impact on our results, and those of others in our industry, in 2005. Steel surcharges and higher steel prices resulting from ongoing limited steel production capacity and high demand reduced our pre-tax income in our continuing operations by $196 in 2005. We may not be able to complete the divestiture of our non-core engine hard parts, fluid products and pump products businesses in the current market atmosphere. We announced in late 2005 that three businesses (engine hard parts, fluid products and pump products) would be divested and classified them as discontinued operations in our financial statements during the fourth quarter. The abundance of assets currently available for sale in the automotive industry could affect our ability to complete these divestitures and/or the proceeds that we are ultimately able to derive from these transactions. Moreover, while we are in Chapter 11, there may be limitations on the terms and conditions that we can offer to potential purchasers of these operations. Failure to complete these strategic transactions could place further pressure on our profitability and cash flow as well as our ability to focus on our core businesses. We may be unable to complete the operational restructuring in our Automotive Systems Group and our Commercial Vehicle business and the dissolution of our Mexican joint venture with DESC, or to achieve projected cost savings and improved operational efficiencies. The operational restructuring in ASG and the dissolution of our Mexican joint venture are designed to balance capacity, enhance manufacturing efficiencies, and take advantage of lower cost locations. We are also implementing a number of cost savings programs and productivity improvement initiatives, such as lean manufacturing and VA/ VE (value-added/value engineering programs) in our operations. Successful implementation of these initiatives is critical to our future competitiveness and ability to improve our profitability. However, there can no assurances that these efforts will be successful in this regard. 12 Table of Contents We could be adversely affected if we experience shortages of components from our suppliers. We spend approximately $4,500 annually for purchased goods and services. To manage and reduce these costs, we have been consolidating our supply base. As a result, we are dependent on single sources of supply for some components of our products. We select our suppliers based on total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition, and we expect that they will be able to support our needs. However, there can be no assurance that strong demand, capacity limitations or other problems experienced by our suppliers will not result in occasional shortages or delays in their supply of components to us. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and were unable to procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in timely fashion, which would adversely affect our revenues, margins and customer relations. We could be adversely affected by our asbestos-related product liability claims. We have exposure to asbestos-related claims and litigation because, in the past, some of our automotive products contained asbestos. At the end of 2005, we had approximately 77,000 active pending asbestos-related product liability claims, including 10,000 that were settled and awaiting documentation and payment. A substantial increase in the costs to resolve these claims or changes in the amount of available insurance could adversely impact us, as could the enactment of proposed U.S. federal legislation relating to asbestos personal injury claims. We could be adversely impacted by environmental laws and regulations. Our operations are subject to U.S. and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations governing emissions to air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials; and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Currently, environmental costs with respect to our former and existing operations are not material, but there is no assurance that we will not be adversely impacted by such costs, liabilities or claims in the future, either under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - -None- 