Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-looking information Statements in this report that are not entirely historical constitute “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forwarding-looking statements are indicated by words such as “anticipates,” “expects,” “believes,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “projects” and similar expressions. These statements represent the present expectations of Dana and its consolidated subsidiaries based on current information and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. Our plans, actions and actual results could differ materially from our present expectations due to a number of factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report (our 2007 Form 10-K) and in other filings with the SEC. We are impacted by events and conditions that affect the light vehicle, commercial vehicle and off-highway industries that we serve, as well as by factors specific to Dana. Among the risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the following, many of which are interrelated. Company-Specific Risk Factors Our Exit Facility contains covenants that may constrain our growth. The financial covenants in our Exit Facility may hinder our ability to finance future operations, make potential acquisitions or investments, meet capital needs or engage in business activities that may be in our best interest such as future transactions involving our securities. These restrictions could hinder us from responding to changing business and economic conditions and from implementing our business plan. We may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in our Exit Facility. The financial covenants in our Exit Facility require us to achieve certain financial ratios based on levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain levels of restructuring and reorganization related costs (EBITDA), as defined in the Exit Facility. A failure to comply with these or other covenants in the Exit Facility could, if we were unable to obtain a waiver or an amendment of the covenant terms, cause an event of default that would cause our loans under the Exit Facility to become immediately due and payable. In addition, a waiver or an amendment could substantially increase the cost of borrowing. We operate as a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash to satisfy the obligations of the holding company. Dana Holding Corporation is a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations depends on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. In addition, the payments of funds in the form of dividends, intercompany payments, tax sharing payments and other forms may be subject to restrictions under the laws of the countries of incorporation of our subsidiaries. 13 Table of Contents We could be adversely impacted by the loss of any of our significant customers, changes in their requirements for our products or changes in their financial condition. We are reliant upon sales to a few significant customers. Sales to Ford and GM were 30% of our overall revenue in 2007, while sales to Toyota, PACCAR, Navistar, Chrysler, Daimler and Nissan in the aggregate accounted for another 25%. Changes in our business relationships with any of our large customers or in the timing, size and continuation of their various programs could have an adverse impact on us. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of business with respect to one or more of their vehicle models on which we have a high component content, or a further significant decline in the production levels of such vehicles would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are continually bidding on new business with these customers, as well as seeking to diversify our customer base, but there is no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Further, to the extent that the financial condition of our largest customers deteriorates, including a possible bankruptcy, or their sales otherwise decline, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Labor stoppages or work slowdowns at key suppliers of our customers could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our customers rely on other suppliers to provide them with the parts they need to manufacture vehicles. Many of these suppliers’ workforces are represented by labor unions. Workforce disputes that result in work stoppages or slowdowns at these suppliers could disrupt the operations of our customers which could have a material adverse effect on demand for the products we supply our customers. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to recover portions of our high commodity costs (including costs of steel, other raw materials and energy) from our customers. For some time, high commodity costs have significantly impacted our earnings. As part of our reorganization initiatives, we have been working with our customers to recover a greater portion of our commodity costs. While we have achieved some success in these efforts to date, there is no assurance that commodity costs will not continue to adversely impact our profitability in the future. We could be adversely affected if we experience shortages of components from our suppliers. We spend over $4,000 annually for purchased goods and services. To manage and reduce these costs, we have been consolidating our supply base. As a result, we are dependent on single sources of supply for some components of our products. We select our suppliers based on total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition, and we expect that they will be able to support our needs. However, there is no assurance that strong demand, capacity limitations or other problems experienced by our suppliers will not result in occasional shortages or delays in their supply of components to us. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and were unable to procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in timely fashion, which would adversely affect our revenues, margins and customer relations. We could be adversely impacted by the costs of environmental, health, safety and product liability compliance. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries that govern emissions to the air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Historically, environmental costs with respect to our former and existing operations have not been material. However, there is no assurance that the costs of complying with current environmental laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future will not increase and adversely impact us. 14 Table of Contents There is also no assurance that the costs of complying with various laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future, that relate to health, safety and product liability concerns will not adversely impact us. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) will be limited. The discharge of a debt obligation by a taxpayer for an amount less than the recorded value generally creates cancellation of indebtedness (COD) income, which must be included in the taxpayer’s taxable income. In our case the discharge of the debt was granted by the Bankruptcy Court pursuant to a plan of reorganization approved by the court, and we will not be required to recognize COD income as taxable income. However, certain tax attributes otherwise available and of value to a debtor are reduced by the amount of COD income. We have not completed our analysis regarding the impact of COD income on our tax attributes. Based on our preliminary analysis, we believe that our consolidated NOLs as of the Effective Date were eliminated and other attributes were significantly reduced, including the tax basis of assets, but 2008 post emergence payments will generate tax deductions exceeding $700. Risk Factors in the Markets We Serve We may be adversely impacted by changes in national and international economic, legislative and political conditions. Our sales depend, in large part, on economic conditions in the global light vehicle, commercial vehicle and off-highway OEM markets that we serve. Demand in these markets fluctuates in response to overall economic conditions, including changes in general economic indicators, interest rate levels and, in our vehicular markets, fuel costs. For example, higher gasoline prices in 2007 contributed to weaker demand in North America for certain vehicles for which we supply products, especially full-size SUVs and pick-up trucks. If gasoline prices remain high or continue to rise, the demand for such vehicles could weaken further and the recent shift in consumer interest to passenger cars and CUVs, in preference to SUVs and pick-up trucks, could be accelerated. This would have an adverse effect on our business, as our product content on CUVs is less significant than our content on pick-up trucks and SUVs. In particular, our structures business that supplies the body-on-frame components for full-size SUVs does not have significant content on CUVs. We operate in 26 countries around the world and we depend on significant foreign suppliers and vendors. Legislative and political activities within the countries where we conduct business, particularly in emerging and less developed international countries, could adversely impact our ability to operate in those countries. The political situation in some countries creates a risk of the seizure of our assets. In addition, the political environment could create instability in our contractual relationships with no effective legal safeguards for resolution of these issues. We may be adversely impacted by the strength of other currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar, in the overseas countries in which we do business. Approximately 54% of our sales were from our operations located in countries other than the United States. Currency variations can have an impact on our results (expressed in U.S. dollars). Currency variations can also adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from affiliate or other suppliers located outside of the United States. We use a combination of natural hedging techniques and financial derivatives to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact operating results. 15 Table of Contents We may be adversely impacted by new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations related to increased fuel economy standards and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones. It is anticipated that the number and extent of governmental regulations related to fuel economy standards and greenhouse gas emissions, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. Recently, the United States enacted the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, a new energy bill that will require significant increases in the Corporate Average Fuel Economy requirements applicable to cars and light trucks beginning with the 2011 model year. In addition, a growing number of states are adopting regulations that establish carbon dioxide emission standards that effectively impose similarly increased fuel economy standards for new vehicles sold in those states. Compliance costs for our customers could require them to alter their spending, research and development plans, curtail sales, cease production or exit certain market segments characterized by lower fuel efficiency. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Negative economic outlooks in the United States and elsewhere could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is tied to general economic and industry conditions. Demand for vehicles depends largely on general economic conditions, including the strength of the economy, unemployment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit and the cost of fuel. The decline in housing construction further reduced demand for vehicles, particularly pick-up trucks and SUVs on which we provide significant content. Leading economic indicators such as employment levels and income growth predict a downward trend in the United States economy. The overall market for new vehicle sales in the United States is expected to decline in 2008, possibly significantly. Our customers could reduce their vehicle production in North America and, as a result, demand for our products would be adversely affected. Risk Factors Related to our Securities There is limited history of trading of our common stock, and volatility is possible. Our post-emergence common stock has traded for only a limited period. Some of the holders who received common stock upon emergence may not elect to hold their shares on a long-term basis. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of our common stock could depress the trading price of the stock for a considerable period. Such sales of common stock, and the possibility thereof, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity, or equity-related securities, in the future at a time and price that we consider appropriate. Our adoption of fresh start accounting could result in additional asset impairments and may make comparisons of our financial position and results of operations to prior periods more difficult. Our adoption of fresh start accounting upon emergence will increase the value of our long lived assets. This increased valuation could result in additional impairments in future periods. As required by GAAP, Dana adopted fresh start accounting effective February 1, 2008. Fresh start accounting requires us to adjust all of our assets and liabilities to their respective fair values. As a result, the consolidated financial statements for periods after the emergence will not be comparable to those of the periods prior to the emergence which are presented on an historical basis. Fresh start accounting may make it more difficult to compare our post-emergence financial position and results of operations to those in the pre-emergence periods which could limit investment in our stock. 16 Table of Contents One of our stockholders has limited approval rights with respect to our business and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. In accordance with the Plan, Centerbridge owns preferred stock and is entitled to vote on most matters presented to stockholders on an as-converted basis. Centerbridge also has certain approval rights, board representation and other rights pursuant to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and a shareholders agreement. These rights include the right to approve a transaction involving a change of control of our company, subject to being overridden by a two-thirds stockholder vote. (See Note 11 to the financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding Centerbridge’s participation in the selection of our Board of Directors and approval rights with respect to certain transactions.) Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us and Centerbridge. For example, Centerbridge and its affiliated investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments -None- 