Item 1A. Risk Factors We are impacted by events and conditions that affect the light vehicle, medium/heavy vehicle and off-highway markets that we serve, as well as by factors specific to Dana. Among the risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the following, many of which are interrelated. Risk Factors Related to the Markets We Serve Failure to sustain a continuing economic recovery in the United States and elsewhere could have a substantial effect on our business. Our business is tied to general economic and industry conditions as demand for vehicles depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit and the cost of fuel. These factors have had and could continue to have a substantial impact on our business. While we expect a continuing economic recovery in 2011, negative economic conditions such as rising fuel prices could adversely impact our business. Adverse developments in these conditions could reduce demand for new vehicles, causing our customers to reduce their vehicle production in North America and, as a result, demand for our products would be adversely affected. Our customers and suppliers could experience severe economic constraints in the future, including bankruptcy. Adverse global economic conditions and further deterioration could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We could be adversely impacted by the loss of any of our significant customers, changes in their requirements for our products or changes in their financial condition. We are reliant upon sales to several significant customers. Sales to our ten largest customers accounted for 53% of our overall revenue in 2010. Changes in our business relationships with any of our large customers or in the timing, size and continuation of their various programs could have a material adverse impact on us. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of business with respect to one or more of their vehicle models on which we have a high component content, or a significant decline in the production levels of such vehicles would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pricing pressure from our customers also poses certain risks. Inability on our part to offset pricing concessions with cost reductions would adversely affect our profitability. We are continually bidding on new business with these customers, as well as seeking to diversify our customer base, but there is no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Further, to the extent that the financial condition of our largest customers deteriorates, including possible bankruptcies, mergers or liquidations, or their sales otherwise decline, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by changes in international legislative and political conditions. We operate in 26 countries around the world and we depend on significant foreign suppliers and customers. Further, we have several growth initiatives that are targeting emerging markets like China and India. Legislative and political activities within the countries where we conduct business, particularly in emerging markets and less developed countries, could adversely impact our ability to operate in those countries. The political situation in a number of countries in which we operate could create instability in our contractual relationships with no effective legal safeguards for resolution of these issues, or potentially result in the seizure of our assets. We may be adversely impacted by the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in the other countries in which we do business. Approximately 56% of our sales in 2010 were from operations located in countries other than the U.S. Currency variations can have an impact on our results (expressed in U.S. dollars). Currency variations can also adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the U.S. and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from affiliates or other suppliers located outside of the U.S. While the U.S. dollar has generally weakened over the past year, strengthening of the U.S. dollar against 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS the euro and many other currencies of countries in which we have operations could adversely affect our results reported in U.S. dollars. We use a combination of natural hedging techniques and financial derivatives to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. We may be adversely impacted by new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations related to increased fuel economy standards and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones. It is anticipated that the number and extent of governmental regulations related to fuel economy standards and greenhouse gas emissions, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. In the U.S., the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 requires significant increases in the Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) requirements applicable to cars and light trucks beginning with the 2011 model year. In addition, a growing number of states are adopting regulations that establish carbon dioxide emission standards that effectively impose similarly increased fuel economy standards for new vehicles sold in those states. Compliance costs for our customers could require them to alter their spending, research and development plans, curtail sales, cease production or exit certain market segments characterized by lower fuel efficiency. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Company-Specific Risk Factors We have taken, and continue to take, cost-reduction actions. Although our process includes planning for potential negative consequences, the cost-reduction actions may expose us to additional production risk and could adversely affect our sales, profitability and ability to attract and retain employees. We have been reducing costs in all of our businesses and have discontinued product lines, exited businesses, consolidated manufacturing operations and reduced our employee population. The impact of these cost-reduction actions on our sales and profitability may be influenced by many factors including our ability to successfully complete these ongoing efforts, our ability to generate the level of cost savings we expect or that are necessary to enable us to effectively compete, delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, decline in employee morale and the potential inability to meet operational targets due to our inability to retain or recruit key employees. We operate as a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash to satisfy the obligations of the holding company. Dana Holding Corporation is a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. In addition, the payment of funds in the form of dividends, intercompany payments, tax sharing payments and otherwise may be subject to restrictions under the laws of the countries of incorporation of our subsidiaries. Labor stoppages or work slowdowns at Dana, key suppliers or our customers could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our businesses. We and our customers rely on our respective suppliers to provide parts needed to maintain production levels. We all rely on workforces represented by labor unions. Workforce disputes that result in work stoppages or slowdowns could disrupt operations of all of these businesses which in turn could have a material adverse effect on demand for the products we supply our customers. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to recover portions of our commodity costs (including costs of steel, other raw materials and energy) from our customers. We continue to work with our customers to recover a greater portion of our material cost increases. While we have achieved some success in these efforts to date, there is no assurance that commodity costs will not adversely impact our profitability in the future. We could be adversely affected if we experience shortages of components from our suppliers. A substantial portion of our annual cost of sales is driven by the purchase of goods and services. To manage and reduce these costs, we have been consolidating our supplier base. As a result, we are dependent on single sources of supply for some components of our products. We select our suppliers based on total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS condition and we expect that they will be able to support our needs. However, there is no assurance that adverse financial conditions, including bankruptcies of our suppliers, reduced levels of production or other problems experienced by our suppliers will not result in shortages or delays in their supply of components to us or even in the financial collapse of one or more such suppliers. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources and were unable to procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect our revenues, margins and customer relations. We will be engaging in acquisitions and joint ventures in the future and we could encounter unexpected difficulties integrating those businesses. We expect to engage in strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, which are intended to complement or expand our businesses. The success of this strategy will depend on our ability to successfully complete these transactions or arrangements, to integrate the businesses acquired in these transactions and to develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in the joint ventures. We could encounter unexpected difficulties in completing these transactions and integrating the acquisitions with our existing operations. We also may not realize the degree or timing of benefits anticipated when we enter into a transaction. We could be adversely impacted by the costs of environmental, health, safety and product liability compliance. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries that govern emissions to the air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Historically, other than an EPA settlement as part of our bankruptcy proceedings, environmental costs related to our former and existing operations have not been material. However, there is no assurance that the costs of complying with current environmental laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future, will not increase and adversely impact us. There is also no assurance that the costs of complying with current laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future, that relate to health, safety and product liability matters will not adversely impact us. There is also a risk of warranty and product liability claims, as well as product recalls, in the commercial, off-highway and light vehicle markets, if our products fail to perform to specifications or cause property damage, injury or death. (See Notes 16 and 18 of our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on warranties.) We participate in certain multiemployer pension plans which are not fully funded. We contribute to certain multiemployer defined benefit pension plans for our union-represented employees in the U.S. in accordance with our collective bargaining agreements. Contributions are based on hours worked except in cases of layoff or leave where we generally contribute based on 40 hours per week for a maximum of one year. The plans are not fully funded as of December 31, 2009, the last date for which data is available. We could be held liable to the plans for our obligation, as well as those of other employers due to our participation in the plans. Contribution rates could increase if the plans are required to adopt a funding improvement plan, if the performance of plan assets does not meet expectations, or as a result of future collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. Risk Factors Related to our Securities Provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Shareholders Agreement may discourage a takeover attempt. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Dana. Such provisions, including those regulating the nomination of directors, limiting who may call special stockholders’ meetings and eliminating stockholder action by written consent, together with the terms of our outstanding preferred stock, may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our board of directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a stockholder might consider to be in such stockholder’s best interest. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments -None- 