Item 1A. Risk Factors We are impacted by events and conditions that affect the light vehicle, commercial vehicle and off-highway markets that we serve, as well as by factors specific to Dana. Among the risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations are the following, many of which are interrelated. Risk Factors in the Markets We Serve Continuing negative economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere could have a substantial effect on our business. Our business is tied to general economic and industry conditions as demand for vehicles depends largely on the strength of the economy, employment levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability and cost of credit and the cost of fuel. Current economic conditions have reduced demand for most vehicles. This has had and could continue to have a substantial impact on our business. Leading economic indicators such as employment levels and income growth predict a continuing downward trend in the United States economy. The overall market for new vehicle sales in the United States is expected to decline significantly in 2009. Our customers are likely to continue to reduce their vehicle production even further in North America and, as a result, demand for our products has been and is likely to continue to be adversely affected. Demand in our non-U.S. markets also continues to decline in response to overall economic conditions, including changes in the global economy, the limited availability of credit and fuel costs. Our international as well as our domestic customers and suppliers could experience severe economic constraints in the future, including bankruptcy. Continuation of these global economic conditions and further deterioration could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We could be adversely impacted by the loss of any of our significant customers, changes in their requirements for our products or changes in their financial condition. We are reliant upon sales to several significant customers. Sales to our eight largest customers accounted for over 45% of our overall revenue in 2008. In the United States, the automobile industry faces an uncertain future. GM and Chrysler have already required assistance through government loans under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) and other companies in the automobile industry may seek government assistance. Changes in our business relationships with any of our large customers or in the timing, size and continuation of their various programs could have a material adverse impact on us. The loss of any of these customers, the loss of business with respect to one or more of their vehicle models on which we have a high component content, or a further significant decline in the production levels of such vehicles would continue to negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are continually bidding on new business with these customers, as well as seeking to diversify our customer base, but there is no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Further, to the extent that the financial condition of our largest customers deteriorates, including possible bankruptcies, mergers or liquidations, or their sales otherwise decline, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. We may be adversely impacted by changes in international legislative and political conditions. Legislative and political activities within the countries where we conduct business, particularly in emerging and less developed international countries, could adversely impact our ability to operate in those countries. The political situation in some countries creates a risk of the seizure of our assets. We operate in 26 countries around the world and we depend on significant foreign suppliers and vendors. The political environment in some of these countries could create instability in our contractual relationships with no effective legal safeguards for resolution of these issues. 11 Table of Contents We may be adversely impacted by the strength of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in the overseas countries in which we do business. Approximately 59% of our sales were from operations located in countries other than the United States. Currency variations can have an impact on our results (expressed in U.S. dollars). Currency variations can also adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from affiliate or other suppliers located outside of the United States. The recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and many other currencies of countries in which we have operations will adversely affect our results reported in U.S. dollars. We use a combination of natural hedging techniques and financial derivatives to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Gains or losses associated with hedging activities also may impact operating results. We may be adversely impacted by new laws, regulations or policies of governmental organizations related to increased fuel economy standards and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones. It is anticipated that the number and extent of governmental regulations related to fuel economy standards and greenhouse gas emissions, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. In the United States the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 requires significant increases in the Corporate Average Fuel Economy requirements applicable to cars and light trucks beginning with the 2011 model year. In addition, a growing number of states are adopting regulations that establish carbon dioxide emission standards that effectively impose similarly increased fuel economy standards for new vehicles sold in those states. Compliance costs for our customers could require them to alter their spending, research and development plans, curtail sales, cease production or exit certain market segments characterized by lower fuel efficiency. Any of these actions could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Company-Specific Risk Factors Our amended Exit Facility terms contain covenants that may constrain our growth. The amended financial covenants in our Exit Facility may hinder our ability to finance future operations, make potential acquisitions or investments, meet capital needs or engage in business activities that may be in our best interest such as future transactions involving our securities. These restrictions could hinder us from responding to changing business and economic conditions and from implementing our business plan. We may be unable to comply with the financial covenants in our amended Exit Facility. The financial covenants in our amended Exit Facility require us to achieve certain financial ratios based on levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain levels of restructuring and reorganization related costs (EBITDA), as defined in the amended Exit Facility. In November 2008, certain covenants of the Exit Facility were amended to allow for future compliance. A failure to comply with these or other covenants in the amended Exit Facility could, if we were unable to obtain a waiver or another amendment of the covenant terms, cause an event of default that could cause our loans under the amended Exit Facility to become immediately due and payable. In addition, additional waivers or amendments could substantially increase the cost of borrowing. In connection with the November 2008 amendment our interest cost increased by 50 basis points, we repaid $150 of the term loan and we incurred amendment fees. We operate as a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for cash to satisfy the obligations of the holding company. Dana Holding Corporation is a holding company. Our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own substantially all of our assets. Our cash flow and our ability to meet our obligations depends on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. In addition, the payments of funds in the form of dividends, intercompany payments, tax 12 Table of Contents sharing payments and other forms may be subject to restrictions under the laws of the countries of incorporation of our subsidiaries. Labor stoppages or work slowdowns at key suppliers of our customers could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our customers rely on other suppliers to provide them with the parts they need to manufacture vehicles. Many of these suppliers’ workforces are represented by labor unions. Workforce disputes that result in work stoppages or slowdowns at these suppliers could disrupt the operations of our customers which could have a material adverse effect on demand for the products we supply our customers. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to recover portions of our commodity costs (including costs of steel, other raw materials and energy) from our customers. As part of our reorganization initiatives, we have been working with our customers to recover a greater portion of our commodity costs. While we have achieved some success in these efforts to date, there is no assurance that commodity costs will not continue to adversely impact our profitability in the future. We could be adversely affected if we experience shortages of components from our suppliers. We spend over $4,000 annually for purchased goods and services. To manage and reduce these costs, we have been consolidating our supply base. As a result, we are dependent on single sources of supply for some components of our products. We select our suppliers based on total value (including price, delivery and quality), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition, and we expect that they will be able to support our needs. However, there is no assurance that adverse financial conditions, including bankruptcies of our suppliers, reduced levels of production or other problems experienced by our suppliers will not result in shortages or delays in their supply of components to us or even in the financial collapse of one or more such suppliers. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers, particularly those who are sole sources, and were unable to procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet our production schedules for some of our key products and to ship such products to our customers in timely fashion, which would adversely affect our revenues, margins and customer relations. We could be adversely impacted by the costs of environmental, health, safety and product liability compliance. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries that govern emissions to the air; discharges to water; the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials and the cleanup of contaminated properties. Historically, environmental costs other than the EPA settlement for Hamilton (see Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8) related to our former and existing operations have not been material. However, there is no assurance that the costs of complying with current environmental laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future will not increase and adversely impact us. There is also no assurance that the costs of complying with various laws and regulations, or those that may be adopted in the future, that relate to health, safety and product liability concerns will not adversely impact us. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited and delayed. We paid approximately $733 following emergence to fund union-sponsored VEBAs for certain union employee benefit obligations. We are currently working with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), through the pre-filing agreement program, to evaluate applicable tax laws and regulations and confirm that the amounts paid to the VEBAs in 2008 were deductible. There is a risk that, if the payment is determined not to be wholly deductible in 2008, the deductibility would instead occur over time which delays recognition of our NOLs. 13 Table of Contents We emerged from bankruptcy with net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) of approximately $300 available to Dana. Certain provisions of the tax code also limit our annual utilization of the $300 of NOLs available at emergence to approximately $90 per year. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize all of our pre-emergence and any subsequent NOL benefits in the future. Risk Factors Related to our Securities We may not be able to maintain our listing with the New York Stock Exchange. On December 19, 2008, we received written notice from the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (NYSE) that we had fallen below the NYSE’s continued listing standard because over a 30 trading-day period our total market capitalization was less than $100 and the average 30 trading-day closing price of our common stock had fallen below $1.00. We notified the NYSE in January 2009 that we intend to resolve these matters. The NYSE has now temporarily suspended its requirement of a minimum 30 trading-day closing price. Once this requirement resumes, we will have approximately three months to comply. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain our listing. Continued non-compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards or delisting from the NYSE could negatively impact our access to equity financing, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our common stock could trade in the over-the-counter market which generally has significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, through factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, in the event of a delisting, holders of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Volatility is possible in the trading of our common stock. Some of the holders who received common stock upon emergence may not elect to hold their shares on a long-term basis. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the perception that these stockholders might sell significant amounts of our common stock could depress the trading price of the stock for a considerable period. Such sales of common stock, and the possibility thereof, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity, or equity-related securities, in the future at a time and price that we consider appropriate. Our adoption of fresh start accounting could result in additional asset impairments and may make comparisons of our financial position and results of operations to prior periods more difficult. As required by GAAP, we adopted fresh start accounting effective February 1, 2008. This adoption increased the value of our long-lived assets. Subsequent developments in our markets resulted in impairments of the fresh start values during 2008 and could result in additional impairments in future periods. Since fresh start accounting required us to adjust all of our assets and liabilities to their respective fair values, the consolidated financial statements for periods after the emergence will not be comparable to those of the periods prior to the emergence which are presented on an historical basis. Fresh start accounting may make it more difficult to compare our post-emergence financial position and results of operations to those in the pre-emergence periods which could limit investment in our stock. One of our stockholders has limited approval rights with respect to our business and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. In accordance with the Plan, Centerbridge owns preferred stock and is entitled to vote on most matters presented to stockholders on an as-converted basis. Centerbridge also has certain approval rights, board representation and other rights pursuant to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and a shareholders agreement. These rights include the right to approve a transaction involving a change of control of our 14 Table of Contents company, subject to being overridden by a two-thirds stockholder vote. (See Note 12 to the financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding Centerbridge’s participation in the selection of our Board of Directors and approval rights with respect to certain transactions.) Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us and Centerbridge. For example, Centerbridge and its affiliated investors are in the business of making investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments -None- 