Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following section discusses material risks that should be carefully considered, which, if they were actually to occur, could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors can arise and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. 6 Table of Contents Our financial statements for our fiscal year ended January 2, 2010 and our independent registered public accountants’ report thereon include an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. The severe global recession has been challenging during the past eighteen months and has dramatically affected our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. During fiscal 2009, we faced significant working capital constraints as the result of the decline in our sales, expenditures associated with our restructuring and diminished borrowing capacity. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. These factors and the presence of the going concern explanatory paragraph has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers and vendors. Further, the going concern paragraph could make it challenging and difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing to the extent needed, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Additionally, if we become unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which our assets are carried on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared on the basis of a going concern. This could have an adverse impact on your investment. We may not be able to maintain continued listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex stock market, and accordingly, you may be unable to sell your shares. On October 9, 2009, we received written notice from the NYSE Amex LLC (the “NYSE Amex”), indicating that we did not meet certain of the continued listing standards of the NYSE Amex. Specifically, the notice stated that we were not in compliance with Section 1003(a)(ii) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide, with stockholders equity of less than $4 million and losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in three of its four most recent fiscal years. On November 9, 2009, we submitted a plan to the NYSE Amex addressing how we intend to regain compliance with the continued listing standard by April 11, 2011. On December 24, 2009, we received written notice from the NYSE Amex indicating it accepted our plan. Specifically, the notice stated the NYSE Amex had granted us an extension until April 11, 2011 to regain compliance with its continued listing standards and we will be subject to periodic review by the NYSE Amex during the extension period. As of January 2, 2010, we reported stockholders’ equity of $4.5 million. There can be no assurance, however, that in the future we will not incur losses that would reduce our stockholders equity below the required $4 million level. Failure to make continued progress consistent with our plan or to regain compliance with the continued listing standards by the end of the extension period could result in us being delisted from the NYSE Amex. If our common stock is delisted, we would intend for our common stock to be eligible for trading on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTC Bulletin Board”), an electronic quotation service maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The OTC Bulletin Board is not a national exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Bulletin Board is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a national exchange such as the NYSE Amex. The decreased liquidity of securities traded on the OTC Bulletin Board may make it more difficult for you to sell any of the shares of our common stock that you may own. We have in the past and may in the future incur losses and negative cash flow from operations despite our efforts to restructure our business in an effort to return to profitability and achieve positive cash flow from operations. We have incurred significant net losses and negative cash flow from operations for the last three fiscal years. During fiscal 2009, we have taken actions to restructure and reduce our business operations, overhead structure and bank debt in an effort to return to profitability and achieve positive cash flow from operations. These included: shutting down the Tommy Bahama footwear division, reducing our administrative expenses, including reducing our executive team and employee headcount, monetizing working capital from the sale of the 7 Table of Contents certain Chambers’ assets, and replacing our Wells Fargo credit facility with an Accounts Receivable and Inventory Security Agreement with First Community Financial. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our overall goal or that the targeted benefits from our restructuring actions will be adequate in that regard. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or achieve positive cash flow from operations. The deterioration in the global economic environment, and resulting declines in consumer confidence and spending, have led to reduced consumer demand for our products and negatively affected our operating results. A prolonged period of declines in consumer confidence and spending would have a material adverse effect on us. The severe global recession has been challenging during the past eighteen months. Declining real estate values, reduced lending by banks, solvency concerns of major financial institutions and increases in unemployment levels have negatively impacted the level of consumer spending for discretionary items. This has dramatically affected our business as it is dependent on consumer demand for our products. A continuation or worsening of the current downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of our products and adversely impact our sales and profitability. Our revolving credit facility includes various financial and other covenants with which we have to comply. Defaults under our revolving credit facility could result in a foreclosure on our assets by our lender which may result in a loss of your investment. In December 2009, we secured a revolving credit facility with First Community Financial. Under the facility, we can borrow up to $4.5 million (subject to a borrowing base which includes Eligible Accounts Receivable and Eligible Inventory). The Eligible Inventory sublimit included in the borrowing base, originally capped at $1.5 million, shall be reduced by $200,000 per month beginning on January 15, 2010 until such amount is reduced to $300,000. As of March 19, 2010, we had $2.9 million outstanding and $419,000 in available borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility, which is collateralized by all of the Company’s personal property, includes various financial and other covenants, including a minimum net worth requirement. As of March 19, 2010, we were not aware of any defaults under our First Community Financial revolving credit facility. If in the future we default under our revolving credit facility, our lender could, among other things, declare our debt to be immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we would be unable to repay our bank debt in full unless we could sell sufficient assets or obtain new financing through a replacement credit facility or equity transaction. If a new credit facility could be obtained, it is likely that it would have higher interest rates and impose significant additional restrictions and requirements on us. New securities issuances would dilute your stock ownership. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain a waiver or amendment from our lender or obtain replacement debt financing or issue sufficient equity securities to refinance our current revolving credit facility. Additionally, our ability to obtain a waiver, amend the current facility, obtain a replacement facility or access additional capital may be made more difficult due to the current global financial crisis and its effect on the capital markets. If we are unable to pay off the facility, our lender could foreclose on our assets, which may result in a loss of your investment. The current state of the economy and the tightening of commercial credit markets may impair our ability to obtain capital on favorable terms. We rely on our revolving credit facility to borrow cash for working capital and general corporate purposes. Our current $4.5 million revolving credit facility matures on December 4, 2011. The loss of the use of this facility or the inability to replace this facility when it expires could materially impair our ability to purchase product from our independent foreign manufacturers. If a replacement credit facility could be obtained, it may have higher interest rates and impose significant additional restrictions and requirements on us. 8 Table of Contents A large portion of our sales are to a relatively small group of customers with whom we do not have long-term purchase orders, therefore the loss of any one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business. Ten major customers represented approximately 45% of net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2009, including Zappos.com, which accounted for 10.7% of net sales for the period. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, our customers do not have a contractual obligation to purchase our products, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing major customers. The retail industry can be uncertain due to changing customer buying patterns and consumer preferences, and customer financial instability. These factors could cause us to lose one or more of these customers, which could adversely affect our business. The financial instability of our customers could adversely affect our business and result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows. We sell much of our footwear to 650 customers across the U.S., comprised of department stores, leading specialty and independent retail stores, mail order catalogues and internet retailers. We extend credit to these customers based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition. While customer credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer or the customer to reduce its business with us and cancel orders. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables due us. Four of our customers constituted 39.9% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at January 2, 2010. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to respond to changing fashion preferences in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on us. An important part of our business is the design, development and marketing of our products. Although our focus has been on traditional and sustainable niche brands, the footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. Demand for and market acceptance of new products are uncertain and achieving market acceptance for new products generally requires substantial product development and marketing efforts and expenditures. Accordingly, we must identify and interpret fashion trends and respond in a timely manner. Failure to do so could result in reduced sales and profitability and in excess inventories, which would have a material adverse effect on us. The footwear industry is highly competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively within the footwear industry and with companies that have greater resources than us, our market share may decline and our business and stock price could be harmed. We face intense competition in the footwear industry from other established companies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, distribution or marketing resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear industry. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including anticipating and responding to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner, maintaining favorable brand recognition, developing high quality products that appeal to consumers, pricing products appropriately, providing strong and effective marketing support, ensuring product availability, obtaining access to retail outlets and sufficient floor space and effectively maintaining our distribution channels, as well as other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to maintain proper inventory levels, which could result in increased costs and reduced sales and adversely affect our business and liquidity. We have traditionally received a substantial portion of our customer orders prior to placement of our initial manufacturing orders. We also maintain an inventory of selected core products for those products that we anticipate will be in high demand. The ongoing global recession makes it increasingly difficult for us and our customers to accurately forecast product demand. We may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount or close-out prices at significant markdowns. Either of which would negatively impact our margins and our operating results. Conversely, inventory shortages could hinder our ability to meet at-once orders and could adversely affect the timing of shipments to customers and diminish brand loyalty. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, which could affect our ability to manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control the costs of our products. We currently rely on foreign sourcing of our products. We believe that one of our strengths is our strong relationships with manufacturers capable of meeting our requirements for quality and price in a timely fashion. We obtain our foreign-sourced products primarily from independent contract manufacturers located in China and Brazil. As a result, we are subject to the general risks of doing business outside the U.S., including, without limitation, work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuation, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, and changes in local government administration and governmental policies, and to factors such as the short-term and long-term effects of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and the outbreak of avian influenza. Although a diverse domestic and international industry exists for the kinds of merchandise sourced by us, there can be no assurance that these factors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on independent contract manufacturers and, as a result, are exposed to potential disruptions in product supply. Our footwear products are currently manufactured by independent contract manufacturers in China and Brazil. Currently, as of March 19, 2010, active relationships with 6 manufacturers exist. We do not have long-term written agreements with any of our manufacturers, and we compete with other footwear companies for production facilities. We could experience difficulties with these manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet our quality control standards, failure to meet production deadlines or increased manufacturing costs. In the past, we have experienced some instability in our manufacturing relationships as we made changes to our sourcing network. If our current manufacturers cease doing business with us, we could experience an interruption in the supply of our products. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturers, we may be unable to establish relationships with alternative manufacturers that will be as favorable as our present relationships. For example, new manufacturers may have higher prices, less favorable payment terms, lower manufacturing capacity, lower quality standards or longer lead times for delivery. If we are unable to provide products consistent with our standards or the manufacture of our footwear is delayed or becomes more expensive, this could result in our customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or demanding reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could adversely affect our gross profit. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials, used to manufacture our products, could adversely affect our cost of goods or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Although we do not expect our 10 Table of Contents foreign manufacturing partners to have any difficulty in obtaining the raw materials required, certain sources may experience some difficulty in obtaining raw materials. We generally do not enter into long-term purchase commitments. In the event of price increases in these raw materials in the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of these higher raw materials prices on to our customers, which would adversely affect our gross profit. Changes in the mix of retailers to whom we distribute our products could impact our gross margin and brand image, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We sell our products through a mix of retailers, including department stores and specialty retailers. Although we do not currently anticipate material changes in the mix of our retail customers for our ongoing business, any such changes could adversely affect our gross margin and could negatively affect both our brand image and our reputation with our consumers. A negative change in our gross margin or our brand image and acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality in our business, and if we fail to meet expectations, the price of our common stock may fluctuate. The footwear industry generally, and our business specifically, are characterized by seasonality in net sales and results of operations. Our business is seasonal, with the first and third quarters generally having stronger sales and operating results than the other two quarters. These events could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we are sued for intellectual property infringement. We believe that we derive a competitive advantage from our ownership of the Trotters and SoftWalk trademarks, and our patented foot bed technology. We vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement. We believe that our trademarks are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in the countries where we source our products. We cannot be sure that our activities do not and will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property, or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability that could divert our management’s attention and resources and otherwise adversely affect our business or financial condition. We are controlled by a principal stockholder who may exert significant control over us and our significant corporate decisions in a manner adverse to your personal investment objectives, which could depress the market value of our stock. James R. Riedman, our Chairman of the Board, is the largest beneficial owner of our stock. Through his personal holdings and shares over which he is deemed to have beneficial ownership held by Riedman Corporation (of which he is a stockholder and a director), our employee retirement plan, his children, and an affiliated entity, Mr. Riedman beneficially owned approximately 28.9% of our outstanding shares as of January 2, 2010, which includes vested stock options. Through this beneficial ownership, Mr. Riedman can significantly influence the election or removal of our directors and the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The interest of our principal stockholder may conflict with interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; 11 Table of Contents • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. The agreements we entered into in connection with our divestitures expose us to potential liabilities for indemnification and other claims for a period of time. Each of the agreements we entered into in connection with our divestitures contains an indemnity by us in favor of the other party to the agreement relating to the divested business or product line. We have settled several indemnification claims against us by the purchaser of the Altama business. If additional indemnification claims are made against us, we may have to spend time and cost to defend and settle the claim, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Our common stock is thinly traded and has been and may continue to be volatile. We consider our common stock to be thinly traded. Any last reported sales price may not reflect a true market-based valuation of the common stock. A consistently active trading market for our stock may not develop at any time in the future. Stockholders may experience difficulty selling their shares if they choose to do so because of the illiquid market and limited public float for our stock. It is possible that even a limited public market for our common stock will not be sustained after the date of this annual report or at a time at which you may desire to sell your shares. Further, the trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors and other general macroeconomic conditions unrelated to our financial performance may also affect our stock price. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This annual report on Form 10-K and the Securities and Exchange Commission filings that are incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We intend that these forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created by those sections. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our anticipated results from our restructuring activities and future financial performance, business prospects, new developments, new merchandising strategies and similar matters, and/or statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believes,” “could,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” or similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, based on the information currently available to us. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described under the heading “Risk Factors,” that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date stated, or if no date is stated, as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or any other reason except as we may be required to do under applicable law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this annual report on Form 10-K may not occur. 12 Table of Contents We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors can arise and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, we have a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 