Item 1A. Risk Factors The following section discusses material risks that should be carefully considered, which, if they were actually to occur, could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors can arise and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Defaults under our secured credit arrangement could result in a foreclosure on our assets by our bank which may result in a loss of your investment. We have secured a credit facility with our bank, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., entered into in June 2008. Under the facility we can borrow up to $17 million (subject to a borrowing base which includes eligible receivables and eligible inventory), which, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, may be increased to $20 million. The credit facility also includes a $7.5 million letter of credit sub facility. As of March 18, 2009, we had $11.7 million outstanding under this facility with an additional $350,000 in additional borrowing capacity. All of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure our bank debt. Our credit facility includes a number of covenants, including financial covenants. We have been in default of our credit facility’s financial covenant for income before taxes since September 27, 2008. Additionally, we expect that we will not meet this financial covenant unless it is amended. We have been in continuing discussions with our bank to obtain a waiver of our existing defaults and an amendment to the financial covenants going forward to reflect our current and anticipated financial situation. If we fail to obtain a waiver or amendment, our bank could, among other things, declare our debt to be immediately due and payable. We would be unable us to repay our bank debt in full unless we can sell sufficient assets or obtain new financing through a replacement credit facility or equity transaction. If a new credit facility could be obtained, it is likely that it would have higher interest rates and impose significant additional restrictions and requirements on us. New securities issuances would dilute your stock ownership. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain a waiver or amendment from our bank or obtain replacement debt financing or issue sufficient equity securities to refinance our current bank debt. Additionally, our ability to obtain a waiver, amend the current facility, obtain a replacement facility or access additional capital may be made more difficult due to the current global financial crisis and its effect on the capital markets. If we are unable to pay off the facility, the bank could foreclose on our assets, which may result in a loss of your investment. Our financial statements for our fiscal year ended January 3, 2009 and our independent registered public accountants’ report thereon include an explanatory paragraph with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern. The going concern paragraph is required because we have incurred net losses for the last two fiscal years and have been in continuing default on our existing credit facility. In the absence of waiver and amendment, an asset sale or financing transaction we would be unable to pay our bank debt if it is accelerated. In the event of acceleration, there is no assurance that an asset sale or financing transaction will be available at all or on terms acceptable to us. The presence of the going concern explanatory paragraph may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors and employees and could make it challenging and difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing to the extent needed, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Additionally, if we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which our assets are carried on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared on the basis of a going concern. This could have an adverse impact on your investment. 8 Table of Contents We have in the past and may in the future incur losses despite our efforts to restructure our business in an effort to return to profitability. We have incurred significant net losses during both fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008. During the last half of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, we have taken actions to restructure and reduce our business operations, overhead structure and bank debt in an effort to return our Company to profitability and appropriate leverage. These have included shutting down the Tommy Bahama footwear division, actions intended to reduce our administrative expense, including reducing our executive team and employee headcount, monetizing certain assets and pursuing the planned sale of the Chambers private label business and certain assets. We cannot assure you that we will achieve our overall goal or that the targeted benefits from our restructuring actions will be adequate in that regard. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or further reduce or extinguish our debt substantially. Recent disruptions in the overall economy have led to reduced consumer demand for our products and adversely affected our operating results and this will continue for the unforeseeable future. As the economic conditions in the global economy have deteriorated, discretionary consumer spending has been reduced. The current global economic slowdown has resulted, and may continue to result, in lower than expected orders of our products and pressure on our gross margins due to the promotional environment. The economic downturn in the United States and the broader global economy and continued uncertainties regarding future economic prospects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exclusive Wrangler mass license for leather belts and accessories expires December 31, 2009 and we do not expect that it will be renewed which will materially adversely affect our operating results unless we are able to identify and successfully execute a strategy that effectively addresses the loss of sales associated with this license. We hold exclusive licenses for Wrangler marks to manufacture and distribute leather belts and accessories in the mass retail and western markets. The Wrangler mass market license expires December 31, 2009 while the western license expires December 31, 2010. We have been notified by Wrangler Apparel that it does not plan to renew the mass license at the end of its current term and we do not expect that the Western license will be renewed at the end of its term. These licenses represent a significant portion of Chamber’s sales. In light of this development and a directive from our Special Committee, we are seeking to sell the Chambers private label business and certain assets. There can be no assurance that we will agree on favorable terms or ultimately close a transaction. If we are unable to timely and successfully execute a sale or an alternative transaction strategy, the loss of the Wrangler mass license will have a material adverse impact on our operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively implement such a strategy. Additionally, if we materially default on our Wrangler licenses, Wrangler may terminate either or both licenses prior to their stated expiration dates. In such event, we may not have sufficient time to identify and implement a strategic alternative to address the loss of the licenses. This would result in an immediate loss of associated sales and require us to pay ongoing minimum royalty payments. Wrangler Apparel could also seek to bring claims against us in which it seeks damages for a material breach or other cause of action. Although we would expect to vigorously defend any such claims, such litigation could be costly and time consuming. Any of these events could materially adversely impact on our results of operations and financial condition in fiscal 2009. A large portion of our sales are to a relatively small group of customers with whom we do not have long-term purchase orders, therefore the loss of any one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business. Ten major customers represented approximately 59% of net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2008, including Wal-Mart, which comprised 32% of net sales from continuing operations for the period. Wal-Mart also represented a significant portion of net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2007. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, our customers do not have a contractual obligation to purchase 9 Table of Contents our products, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing major customers. The retail industry can be uncertain due to changing customer buying patterns and consumer preferences, and customer financial instability. These factors could cause us to lose one or more of these customers, which could adversely affect our business. Also, we have been notified by Wrangler Apparel Corp. that it does not intend to renew at the end of 2009 our license for western leather belts and accessories bearing Wrangler trademarks which accounted for 69% of our net sales to Wal-Mart in fiscal 2008 and therefore, we will lose these sales. This will have a material adverse impact on our operating results unless we can successfully close the planned Chambers asset sale in a timely manner or identify and implement an alternative strategy to address the loss of this license. Our future success depends on our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends and to develop and commercialize new products successfully. A significant portion of our principal business is the design, development and marketing of our products. Although our focus has been on traditional and sustainable niche brands, our brands are still subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. Accordingly, we must identify and interpret fashion trends and respond in a timely manner. Demand for and market acceptance of new products, are uncertain, and achieving market acceptance for new products generally requires substantial product development and marketing efforts and expenditures. Any failure on our part to regularly develop innovative products and update core products could limit our ability to differentiate and appropriately price our products, adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products, and limit sales growth. Each of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business and stock price could be harmed. We face intense competition from other companies in each of our business segments. Many of our competitors have greater financial, distribution or marketing resources, as well as greater brand awareness. In addition, the overall availability of overseas manufacturing opportunities and capacity allow for the introduction of competitors with new products. Moreover, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear industry. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, maintaining brand reputation and authenticity, developing high quality products that appeal to consumers, appropriately pricing our products, providing strong and effective marketing support, ensuring product availability and maintaining and effectively assessing our distribution channels, as well as many other factors beyond our control. Due to these factors within and beyond our control, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share, and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, each of which would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The financial instability of our customers could adversely affect our business and result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows. We sell much of our merchandise in our footwear and accessories segments to department stores and specialty retailers across the U.S. and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. While customer credit losses have historically been within our expectations and reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue. The financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer or the customer to reduce its business with us and cancel orders. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables due us. Two of our 10 Table of Contents customers constituted 41% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at January 3, 2009. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our major customers could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. Changes in the mix of retailers to whom we distribute our products could impact our gross margin and brand image, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We sell our products through a mix of retailers, including department stores and specialty retailers. Although we do not currently anticipate material changes in the mix of our retail customers for our ongoing business, any such changes could adversely affect our gross margin and could negatively affect both our brand image and our reputation with our consumers. A negative change in our gross margin or our brand image and acceptance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we are sued for intellectual property infringement. We believe that we derive a competitive advantage from our ownership of the Trotters and SoftWalk trademarks, and our patented foot bed technology. We vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement. We believe that our trademarks are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in the countries where we source our products. We cannot be sure that our activities do not and will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property, or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability that could divert our management’s attention and resources and otherwise adversely affect our business or financial condition. Our inventory levels may exceed our actual needs, which could adversely affect our operating results by requiring us to make inventory write-downs. We have traditionally received a substantial portion of our customer orders for our ongoing businesses prior to placement of our initial manufacturing orders. However, we also maintain an inventory of selected core products for these product lines that we anticipate will be in high demands. If we order more product than we are able to sell, we may have inventory write-downs and be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount or close-out prices at significant markdowns which will negatively impact our margins and our operating results. We have experienced this problem in the past. Additionally, excess inventory may prolong our cash flow cycle, resulting in reduced cash flow which adversely affects our liquidity. Excess inventory could occur as the result of changes in customer order patterns, general sales activity, orders subject to cancellation by customers, miss-forecasting and consumer demand. The current economic environment has made accurate projecting of inventory levels increasingly challenging and increased the risk of canceled orders. There can be no assurance that we will be able to set or maintain these at optimal levels or forecast future demand accurately. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality in our business, and if we fail to meet expectations, the price of our common stock may fluctuate. The footwear and accessories industries generally, and our business specifically, are characterized by seasonality in net sales and results of operations. Our business is seasonal, with the first and third quarters generally having stronger sales and operating results than the other two quarters. These events could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. 11 Table of Contents Our international manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, which could affect our ability to manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control the costs of our products. We currently rely on foreign sourcing of our products, other than a portion of our belts manufactured at our California facility. We believe that one of our strengths is our strong relationships with manufacturers capable of meeting our requirements for quality and price in a timely fashion. We obtain our foreign-sourced products primarily from independent third-party manufacturing facilities which are generally located in Brazil and Asia. As a result, we are subject to the general risks of doing business outside the U.S., including, without limitation, work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuation, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, and changes in local government administration and governmental policies, and to factors such as the short-term and long-term effects of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and the outbreak of avian influenza in China. Although a diverse domestic and international industry exists for the kinds of merchandise sourced by us, there can be no assurance that these factors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reliance on independent manufacturers for almost all of our footwear products and some of our accessories product, with whom we do not have long-term written agreements, could cause delay and damage customer relationships. In fiscal 2008, we utilized 10 third-party manufacturers to produce our dress and casual footwear products and 10 third-party manufacturers to produce our accessories products. We do not have long-term written agreements with any of our third-party manufacturers. As a result, any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationships with us at any time. During 2007, we experienced some instability in our manufacturing relationships as we made changes to our sourcing network. Establishing relationships with new manufacturers require a significant amount of time and if required to do so would cause us to incur delays and additional expenses, which would also adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any inability to receive timely deliveries from our manufacturers could harm our business. We face the risk that the manufacturers with whom we contract to produce our products may not produce and deliver our products on a timely basis or at all. Our products are generally produced by independent, foreign manufacturers. In the past, a manufacturer’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards has caused us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. This, in turn, caused customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. We cannot be certain that we will not again experience delivery issues or operational difficulties with our manufacturers, such as reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, and failures to meet production deadlines or increases in manufacturing costs. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages or untimely deliveries of certain products, either of which could harm our business. Our results could be adversely affected by disruptions in our manufacturing systems. Manufacturing operations of our Chambers brand during fiscal 2008 produced approximately 41% of the products we sold and approximately 26% of our combined net sales from continuing operations. We plan to cease these manufacturing operations at the time that the planned Chambers sale transaction is completed and thereafter, to the extent needed, completely rely on outsourced manufacturing. Prior to then, any significant disruption in this manufacturing operation for any reason, such as power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other force majeure, could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. 12 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could adversely affect our gross profit. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials, used to manufacture our products, could adversely affect our cost of goods or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Although we do not expect our foreign manufacturing partners, or ourselves until the completion of the planned Chambers sale, to have any difficulty in obtaining the raw materials required for footwear and accessories production, certain sources may experience some difficulty in obtaining raw materials. We generally do not enter into long-term purchase commitments. In the event of price increases in these raw materials in the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of these higher raw materials prices on to our customers, which would adversely affect our gross profit. We are controlled by a principal stockholder who may exert significant control over us and our significant corporate decisions in a manner adverse to your personal investment objectives, which could depress the market value of our stock. James R. Riedman, our Chairman of the Board, is the largest beneficial owner of our stock. Through his personal holdings and shares over which he is deemed to have beneficial ownership held by Riedman Corporation (of which he is a stockholder and a director), our employee retirement plan, his children, and an affiliated entity, he beneficially owned approximately 29.9% of our outstanding shares as of January 3, 2009. Mr. Riedman also has beneficial ownership of shares underlying options which, if exercised, would increase his percentage beneficial ownership to approximately 37.2% as of January 3, 2009. Through this beneficial ownership, Mr. Riedman can significantly influence the election or removal of our directors and the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The interest of our principal stockholder may conflict with interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. The agreements we entered into in connection with the Royal Robbins, Altama and Tommy Bahama divestitures and that we may enter into in the future in connection with future divestitures expose us to potential liabilities for indemnification and other claims for a period of time. Each of the agreements we entered into in connection with the Royal Robbins, Altama and Tommy Bahama divestitures contains an indemnity by us in favor of the other party to the agreement relating to the divested business or product line. The purchaser of the Altama division has asserted several indemnification claims against us and received a payout with respect to one claim. If additional indemnification claims are made against us, we may have to spend time and cost to defend and settle the claim, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. The trading price for our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will likely continue to be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors and other general macroeconomic conditions unrelated to our financial performance may also affect our stock price. 13 Table of Contents CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Securities and Exchange Commission filings that are incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We intend that these forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created by those sections. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our anticipated results from our restructuring activities and future financial performance, business prospects, new developments, new merchandising strategies and similar matters, and/or statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believes,” “could,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” or similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, based on the information currently available to us. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described under the heading “Risk Factors,” that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date stated, or if no date is stated, as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or any other reason except as we may be required to do under applicable law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors can arise and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, we have a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Access to SEC Filings The public may read and copy any of the materials the Company files with the Commission at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, interested readers can access the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. These reports can be accessed free of charge. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 Table of Contents 