Item 1A. Risk Factors The following section discusses material risks that should be carefully considered, which, if they were actually to occur, could harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors can arise and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Our bank debt could be accelerated and our assets foreclosed upon if we do not obtain a new credit facility or we do not obtain an amendment to our existing facility or we default in the future on our bank debt We have a $28.0 million revolving credit facility with our bank, under which we had $12.3 million outstanding as of March 29, 2008. The financial covenants under this facility were established while we owned Royal Robbins and Altama and have not been revised since we sold those brands. During fiscal 2007 and continuing through the date hereof, we have not been in compliance with these covenants. We have not requested a waiver from these bank violations because we are currently negotiating with a new bank to refinance our existing debt. There is no assurance we will be able to obtain a new credit facility. All of our assets are pledged as collateral to secure our debt under our current credit facility and will also be pledged to secure any new credit facility. If we fail to obtain a new credit facility or a waiver and amendment for our existing facility, if we do not close on a new credit facility, or if we experience future defaults under our then existing credit facility, which we are unable to cure and we cannot obtain appropriate waivers, our bank could increase our interest rates, charge us additional fees, impose significant restrictions and requirements on our operations or declare our debt to be immediately due and payable. In such event, we would need to repay the debt or the bank could foreclose on our assets. To repay the debt we would need to either obtain a new credit facility or issue equity securities. A new credit facility following an acceleration would likely have higher interest rates and impose significant additional restrictions and requirements on us. New securities issuances would dilute your stock ownership. There is no assurance that we would be able to obtain replacement financing or issue sufficient equity securities to refinance our current bank debt. 8 Table of Contents Our independent registered public accountants have included an explanatory paragraph in their report for our fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 with respect to our ability to continue as a going concern We have also included a note to this effect in our financial statements because we are in default of our unrevised historic financial covenants. In the absence of an asset sale or refinancing transaction we would be unable to pay our bank debt if it accelerates our debt. If our bank accelerated its debt, there is no assurance that an asset sale or financing will be available at all or on terms acceptable to us. The presence of the going concern explanatory paragraph may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, vendors and employees and could make it challenging and difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing to the extent needed, all which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Additionally, if we became unable to continue as a going concern, we would have to liquidate our assets and we might receive significantly less than the values at which our assets are carried on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared on the basis of a going concern. This could have an adverse impact on your investment in us. Future acquisitions or acquisition efforts may not be successful which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition We have in the past and may in the future make acquisitions of footwear and related products companies that we believe could complement or expand our business, augment our market coverage, provide us with important relationships or otherwise offer us growth opportunities. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition timely or at all, or negotiate successfully the terms of or finance the acquisition. Unsuccessful acquisition efforts may result in significant additional expenses that would not otherwise be incurred. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate the operations of our acquisitions without encountering difficulties, including unanticipated costs, possible difficulty in retaining customers and supplier or manufacturing relationships, failure to retain key employees, the diversion of management attention or failure to integrate our information and accounting systems. Following an acquisition, we may not realize the revenues and cost savings that we expect to achieve or that would justify the acquisition investment, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. These circumstances could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The growth of our business depends on the successful execution of our growth strategies. Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products as well as the successful design and introduction of new products, such as have been developed for introduction during fiscal 2008 for our Tommy Bahama Footwear, H.S. Trask and Trotter’s “Z Collection” products and which we are working on for introduction under the Lee trademark during the second half of fiscal 2008. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business. A large portion of our sales are to a relatively small group of customers with whom we do not have long-term purchase orders, therefore the loss of any one or more of these customers could adversely affect our business Ten major customers represented approximately 56% of net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2007, including Wal-Mart, which comprised 32% of net sales from continuing operations for the period. Wal-Mart also represented a significant portion of net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2006. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, our customers do not have a contractual obligation to purchase our products, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing major customers. The retail industry can be uncertain due to changing customer buying patterns and consumer preferences, and customer financial instability. These factors could cause us to lose one or more of these customers, which could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends on our ability to respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends and to develop and commercialize new products successfully A significant portion of our principal business is the design, development and marketing of dress and casual footwear and accessories. Although our focus in these segments of our business is on traditional and sustainable 9 Table of Contents niche brands, our consumer brands may still be subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences and fashion trends. For example, our H.S. Trask and Tommy Bahama Footwear brands experienced decreased retail acceptance of various styles during fiscal 2006 and our Trotters and SoftWalk footwear brands experienced similar activity during fiscal 2005, which adversely affected our net sales and gross margin. Accordingly, we must identify and interpret fashion trends and respond in a timely manner. Demand for and market acceptance of new products, are uncertain, and achieving market acceptance for new products generally requires substantial product development and marketing efforts and expenditures. Any failure on our part to regularly develop innovative products and update core products could limit our ability to differentiate and appropriately price our products, adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products, and limit sales growth. Each of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We face intense competition, including competition from companies with greater resources than ours, and if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business and stock price could be harmed We face intense competition from other companies in each of our business segments. Many of our competitors have greater financial, distribution or marketing resources, as well as greater brand awareness. In addition, the overall availability of overseas manufacturing opportunities and capacity allow for the introduction of competitors with new products. Moreover, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear industry. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner, maintaining brand reputation and authenticity, developing high quality products that appeal to consumers, appropriately pricing our products, providing strong and effective marketing support, ensuring product availability and maintaining and effectively assessing our distribution channels, as well as many other factors beyond our control. Due to these factors within and beyond our control, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share, and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, each of which would adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The financial instability of our customers could adversely affect our business and result in reduced sales, profits and cash flows We sell much of our merchandise in our footwear, premium footwear and accessories segments to department stores and specialty retailers across the U.S. and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer’s financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, the financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer’s receivables due us. Two of our customers constituted 35% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at December 29, 2007. Our inability to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any of our major customers could adversely affect our business or financial condition. Our ability to compete could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if we are sued for intellectual property infringement We believe that we derive a competitive advantage from our ownership of the Trotters, SoftWalk, and H.S. Trask trademarks, and our patented foot bed technology and our license of the Wrangler and Tommy Bahama Footwear marks. We vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement. We believe that our trademarks are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in the countries where we source our products. We cannot be sure that our activities do not and 10 Table of Contents will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property, or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability that could divert our management’s attention and resources and otherwise adversely affect our business or financial condition. We depend on third-party trademarks to market some of our products and services and the loss of the right to use these trademarks or the diminished marketing appeal of these trademarks could adversely affect our business We hold licenses to design and distribute products bearing trademarks owned by other entities. We have an exclusive license from Tommy Bahama Group, Inc., to design and distribute men’s and women’s footwear, hosiery, belts and men’s small leather goods and accessories bearing the “Tommy Bahama®” mark and related marks and exclusive licenses from Wrangler Apparel Corp. to distribute leather belts, accessories, and suspenders bearing the “Wrangler®” mark and related marks. We are subject to risks that our licensors may not renew our licenses at the end of a term. For example, our exclusive license to distribute certain accessories for “Wrangler®,” “Wrangler Rugged Wear®,” “20X®” and “Twenty X®” expired December 31, 2007. We have continued to manufacture and sell these products with the knowledge of Wrangler Apparel Corp. and are currently negotiating to extend this license through 2010; however, there can be no assurance this license will be extended. Additionally, each of our license agreements may be terminated by the respective licensors prior to the end of the applicable term for several reasons, including a material default by us under the applicable agreement, or if we do not meet certain sales requirements. The revenue generated from sales of our licensed products is a significant part of our overall revenue. If an owner of a trademark that we license terminates our license agreements because we have materially defaulted under the applicable agreement, have not met required sales requirements, or for any other reason permitted under such agreements, or if the name “Tommy Bahama®” (or related marks) or “Wrangler®” (or related marks) were to suffer diminished marketing appeal, or if we are unable to renew these agreements, our revenues and operations could be materially adversely affected. Our inventory levels may exceed our actual needs, which could adversely affect our operating results by requiring us to make inventory write-downs If we order more product than we are able to sell, we may be forced to liquidate excess inventories at a discount to customers resulting in markdowns and lower or negative margins, adversely affecting our margins and in turn, our operating results. Additionally, excess inventory may prolong our cash flow cycle, resulting in reduced cash flow which adversely affects our liquidity. Excess inventory could occur as the result of changes in customer order patterns, general sales activity, orders subject to cancellation by customers, misforecasting and consumer demand. We are continuing to take steps to reduce the inventory used in selling our brands, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to set or maintain these at optimal levels or forecast future demand accurately. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonality in our business, and if we fail to meet expectations, the price of our common stock may fluctuate The footwear and accessories industries generally, and our business specifically, are characterized by seasonality in net sales and results of operations. Our business is seasonal, with the first and third quarters generally having stronger sales and operating results than the other two quarters. These events could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate. Our international manufacturing operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, which could affect our ability to manufacture our products in international markets, obtain products from foreign suppliers or control the costs of our products We currently rely on foreign sourcing of our products, other than a portion of our belts manufactured at our California facility. We believe that one of the key factors in our growth has been our strong relationships with 11 Table of Contents manufacturers capable of meeting our requirements for quality and price in a timely fashion. We obtain our foreign-sourced products primarily from independent third-party manufacturing facilities located in Brazil and Asia. As a result, we are subject to the general risks of doing business outside the U.S., including, without limitation, work stoppages, transportation delays and interruptions, political instability, expropriation, nationalization, foreign currency fluctuation, changing economic conditions, the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, and changes in local government administration and governmental policies, and to factors such as the short-term and long-term effects of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, and the outbreak of avian influenza in China. Although a diverse domestic and international industry exists for the kinds of merchandise sourced by us, there can be no assurance that these factors will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our reliance on independent manufacturers for almost all of our non-accessory products, with whom we do not have long-term written agreements, could cause delay and damage customer relationships In fiscal 2007, we utilized 20 third-party manufacturers to produce our dress and casual footwear products and 19 third-party manufacturers to produce our accessories products. We do not have long-term written agreements with any of our third-party manufacturers. As a result, any of these manufacturers may unilaterally terminate their relationships with us at any time. We experienced some instability in these relationships as we made changes to our sourcing network in fiscal 2007 by changing to new sourcing relationships. Establishing relationships with new manufacturers would require a significant amount of time and would cause us to incur delays and additional expenses, which would also adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, in the past, a manufacturer’s failure to ship products to us in a timely manner or to meet the required quality standards has caused us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items. This, in turn, has caused, and may in the future cause, customers to cancel orders, refuse to accept deliveries or demand reduced prices. This could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results could be adversely affected by disruptions in our manufacturing systems Our manufacturing operations at our Chambers Belt brand produced approximately 8% of the products we sold in our continuing operations in fiscal 2007 and over 5% of our combined net sales from continuing operations in fiscal 2007. Any significant disruption in this manufacturing operation for any reason, such as power interruptions, fires, hurricanes, war or other force majeure, could adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely affect our business. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could adversely affect our gross profit Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials, such as leather and bison hides, used to manufacture our products, could adversely affect our cost of goods or our ability to meet our customers’ demands. Although we do not expect our foreign manufacturing partners, or ourselves in manufacturing our Chambers brand, to have any difficulty in obtaining the raw materials required for footwear and accessories production, certain sources may experience some difficulty in obtaining raw materials. We generally do not enter into long-term purchase commitments. In the event of price increases in these raw materials in the future, we may not be able to pass all or a portion of these higher raw materials prices on to our customers, which would adversely affect our gross profit. A decline in general economic conditions could lead to reduced consumer demand for our products and could lead to a reduction in our net sales, and thus in our ability to obtain credit In addition to consumer fashion preferences, consumer-spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. Slowdowns would likely cause us to delay or slow our expansion plans and result in lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis, which could lead to a reduction in our stockholders’ equity and thus our ability to obtain credit as and when needed. 12 Table of Contents We may be required to recognize intangible impairment charges that could adversely affect our reported earnings in future periods Our business acquisitions have resulted in goodwill and intangible assets. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill annually or at any time when events occur that could impact the value of our business, including protracted economic weakness, declines in operating results of our business segments and market capitalization declines. For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, we recorded non-cash intangible impairment charges of $1.1 million and $4.9 million which were associated with our premium footwear segment and accessories segment, respectively. For the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006, we recorded non-cash intangible impairment charges of $6.6 million and $16.9 million which were associated with our premium footwear segment and military boot segment (which has since been sold), respectively. Future significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for further impairment in a future period that could adversely affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. Charges to earnings from the compensation to employees under our deferred stock awards could adversely affect the value of your investment in our common stock As of December 29, 2007, we had outstanding deferred stock awards entitling the holders to receive 598,000 shares upon the achievement of established performance targets. Upon the vesting and issuance of these shares, we will recognize compensation expense based on the fair value of these shares at that time. To the extent our stock price increases, we would be required to take a higher charge for these allocations and thereby decrease our reported earnings. This could adversely affect the value of your investment in our common stock. We are controlled by a principal stockholder who may exert significant control over us and our significant corporate decisions in a manner adverse to your personal investment objectives, which could depress the market value of our stock James R. Riedman, our Chairman of the Board, is the largest beneficial owner of our stock. Through his personal holdings and shares over which he is deemed to have beneficial ownership held by Riedman Corporation (of which he is a shareholder and a director), our employee retirement plan, his children, and an affiliated entity, he beneficially owned approximately 26.1% of our outstanding shares as of December 29, 2007. Mr. Riedman also has beneficial ownership of shares underlying options which, if exercised, would increase his percentage beneficial ownership to approximately 33.0% as of December 29, 2007. Through this beneficial ownership, Mr. Riedman can significantly influence the election or removal of our directors and the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The interest of our principal stockholder may conflict with interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; • causing us to enter into transactions or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company. The purchase and sale agreements we entered into in connection with the Royal Robbins and Altama divestitures expose us to potential liabilities for indemnification and other claims for a period of time. Each of the purchase and sale agreements we entered into in connection with the Royal Robbins and Altama divestitures contains an indemnity by us in favor of the buyers for certain matters, including for liabilities, losses, or expenses arising out of breaches of representations and warranties relating to the condition of the business 13 Table of Contents prior to and at the time of sale. If a buyer makes an indemnification claim against us, we may have to spend time and cost to defend and settle the claim, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Securities and Exchange Commission filings that are incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We intend that these forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created by those sections. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our anticipated financial performance, business prospects, new developments, new merchandising strategies and similar matters, and/or statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believes,” “could,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” or similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events, based on the information currently available to us. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described under the heading “Risk Factors,” that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of our business. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date stated, or if no date is stated, as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or any other reason except as we may be required to do under applicable law. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur. We operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors can arise and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against our policy to disclose to them any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, investors should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of the statement or report. Furthermore, we have a policy against issuing or confirming financial forecasts or projections issued by others. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. Access to SEC Filings Interested readers can access the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, through the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. These reports can be accessed free of charge. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 Table of Contents 