Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors particular to our business and industry that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those we currently expect or seek. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. There are additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be unlikely or immaterial that also may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or prospects. Our largest stockholder, Isaac Capital Group, holds significant control over our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock and may be able to control our Company indefinitely. The Isaac Capital Group currently has beneficial ownership of approximately 23% of our outstanding common stock, including shares of Series A Preferred Stock convertible into shares of common stock, and therefore has considerable influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors, and the approval of significant corporate transactions. Failure to satisfy NASDAQ continued listing rule. For the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015 our shareholder’s equity was less the $2,500,000 and we are in non- compliance with the applicable shareholder’s equity requirement for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. Our failure to comply with the shareholder’s equity requirement may subject our securities to delisting from NASDAQ. The Company intends to present its plan to evidence and sustain compliance with all applicable requirements for continue listing on NASDAQ. Our independent auditors have issued a going concern opinion and, if we are unable to obtain bank financing, raise capital or generate enough cash from operations to sustain our business, then we may have to liquidate assets or curtail our operations. In its audit report dated August 7, 2015 for the fiscal years ended April 30, 2015, the opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm, Anton & Chia LLP, included an emphasis paragraph as to the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern. Most notably, significant recurring net losses through April 30, 2015 raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, we incurred a net loss to common shareholders of $3,829,000. We will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses in recent years and our future profitability is not assured. For the fiscal years ended April 30, 2015 and 2014, we incurred net losses of approximately $3,829,000 and $2,609,000, respectively. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties and we cannot assure you that we will not continue to experience net losses for the foreseeable future. If we are not able to increase revenue and reduce our costs, we may not be able to achieve profitability. 15 We are likely to need additional financing, but our access to capital funding is uncertain. As of April 30, 2015, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling $327,000. During the year then ended, we had a net loss of $3,829,000 and used cash in operating activities of $2,581,000. We believe our existing capital resources should be sufficient to fund the activities contemplated by our current operating plan into the third quarter of the fiscal year ending April 30, 2015. We intend to seek external funding prior to that time, however, most likely through bank debt and the issuance and sale of securities. We cannot predict with any certainty when we will need additional funds or how much we will need or if additional funds will be available to us. Our need for future funding will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside our control. Our access to capital funding is uncertain. We do not have committed external sources of funding, and we may not be able to obtain additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. During the fiscal year ended April, 30 2015, we implemented cost-containment initiatives through the restructuring of our workforce and we could implement other cost-containment initiatives in the future. Such cost-containment initiatives could result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity amongst our work force which could adversely impact our prospects for product sales and profitability. We might also need to sell or license our technologies on terms that are not favorable to us, which could also adversely affect our prospects for profitability. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms reasonably acceptable to us would seriously jeopardize the future success of our business. If we raise funds by issuing and selling securities, it may be on terms that are not favorable to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, our current stockholders will be diluted, and new investors could have rights superior to our existing stockholders. If we raise funds by selling debt securities, we could be subject to restrictive covenants and significant repayment obligations. On November 12, 2014, the Company completed a private placement of 600,000 shares of its Series A Preferred Stock (“Series A Stock”) together with Warrants to purchase shares of its common stock (“Preferred Warrant”) at a price of $5.00 per share, in accordance with the Series A Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement dated October 20, 2014 (the “Purchase Agreement”). The net proceeds to the Company from the sale of the Series A Stock and Preferred Warrant, after deducting the estimated offering expenses incurred by the Company were approximately $2,700,000. At any time from November 17, 2014, the date of Closing, and prior to October 20, 2019 (the “Put/Call Exercise Period”), and the investors may exercise a right to purchase and require the Company to sell up to an additional 700,000 shares of Series A Stock. If the investors have not exercised this right during the Put/Call Exercise Period, the Company may exercise a right to cause and require the investors to purchase up to an additional 700,000 shares of Series A Stock, for an aggregate purchase price of $3,500,000. We may have to substantially increase our working capital requirements in the event of DRAM allocations. Over the past 20 years, availability of DRAMs has swung back and forth from oversupply to shortage. In times of shortage, we have been forced to invest substantial working capital resources in building and maintaining inventory. At such times we have bought DRAMs in excess of our customers' needs in order to ensure future allocations from DRAM manufacturers. In the event of a shortage, we may not be able to obtain sufficient DRAMs to meet customers' needs in the short term, and we may have to invest substantial working capital resources in order to meet long-term customer needs. 16 We could suffer additional losses if DRAM prices continue to decline. We are at times required to maintain substantial inventories during periods of shortage and allocation. Thereafter, during periods of increasing availability of DRAMs and rapidly declining prices, we have been forced to write down inventory. There can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the future based upon high inventories and declining DRAM prices. Our sales, revenues and results of operations could fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenues and ultimate results of operation may vary for a variety of reasons. Such reasons could include, for example, changes in general economic conditions or consumer demand, the introduction of new products by us or by our competitors, a significant purchase or sale of assets or other business combination or an unanticipated event affecting us or our industry, among other factors. Such variability in operating results may affect credit terms offered to us, makes prediction of revenues for each financial period difficult and increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition. In order to compete and succeed, we need to introduce, and continue to provide, products that provide value for customers. Our future success is dependent on the development of new markets wherever possible, and new applications and new products which customers believe will add value, as well as the continued demand for our products among our existing customers. Our ability to develop, qualify and distribute new products and related technologies to meet evolving industry requirements, at prices acceptable to our customers and on a timely basis are significant factors in determining our competitiveness in our target markets. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to exploit new markets or continue to develop products that achieve wide customer acceptance in the marketplace, or that demand for existing products will continue. The Company’s business is subject to the risks of international procurement which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. A significant portion of the Company’s raw materials and finished goods are purchased from foreign manufacturers. As a result, the Company’s international procurement operations are subject to the risks associated with such activities including, economic and labor conditions, international trade regulations (including tariffs and anti-dumping penalties), war, international terrorism, civil disobedience, natural disasters, political instability, governmental activities and deprivation of contract and property rights. In addition, periods of international unrest may impede our ability to procure goods from other countries and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. An interruption in supply and resulting higher costs, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. We may not successfully implement our strategic plans. The Company presently has plans to expand its sales of memory products, to develop new business opportunities based on its existing expertise and software, to continue to seek and evaluate possible strategic alliances to enhance its sales, and to develop and monetize additional intellectual property. These plans, however, are subject to modification or replacement by management if it decides that economic, industry, technological, regulatory or other factors warrant a change. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will successfully implement all such plans or that circumstance in the marketplace and the economy will allow the implementation of such plans. 17 If we fail to achieve and maintain favorable pricing and credit terms from our vendors, our business would be harmed and our operating results would be adversely affected. Our costs are affected by our ability to achieve favorable pricing and credit terms from our vendors and contract manufacturers, including through negotiations for vendor rebates and other vendor funding received in the normal course of business. Because these supplier negotiations are continuous and reflect the ongoing competitive environment, the variability in terms can negatively affect our costs and operating results if we cannot sufficiently adjust pricing or cost variables. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. We also do not have an equity compensation plan applicable to executive officers. If we continue to suffer losses or do not implement an equity compensation plan for executive officers, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. Our products may violate third party intellectual property rights. Certain of our products are designed to be used with proprietary computer systems built by various OEM manufacturers. We often have to comply with the OEM's proprietary designs which may be patented, now or at some time in the future. OEMs have, at times, claimed that we have violated their patent rights by adapting our products to meet the requirements of their systems. It is our policy to, in unclear cases, either obtain an opinion of patent counsel prior to marketing, or obtain a license from the patent holder. We are presently licensed by Sun Microsystems and Silicon Graphics to sell memory products for certain of their products. However, there can be no assurance that product designs will not be created in the future which will, in fact, be patented and which patent holders will require the payment of substantial royalties as a condition for our continued presence in the segment of the market covered by the patent or they may not give us a license. Nor can there be any assurance that our existing products do not violate one or more existing patents. 18 We may lose an important customer. During the fiscal year ended April 30, 2015, the largest ten customers accounted for approximately 53% of the Company's revenues and one customer accounted for approximately 20% of the Company's revenues. There can be no assurance that one or more of these customers will not cease or materially decrease their business with the Company in the future and that our financial performance will not be adversely affected thereby. Sales directly to OEM's and contract manufacturers can make our revenues, earnings, backlog and inventory levels uneven. Revenue and earnings from OEM sales may become uneven as order sizes are typically large and often a completed order cannot be shipped until released by the OEM, e.g., to meet a "just in time" inventory requirement. This may occur at or near the end of an accounting period. In such case, revenues and earnings could decline for the period and inventory and backlog could increase. We face competition from OEM’s. In the compatibles market we sell our products at a lower price than OEMs. Customers will often pay some premium for the "name brand" product when buying additional memory and OEMs seek to exploit this tendency by having a high profit margin on memory products. However, individual OEMs can change their policy and price memory products competitively. While we believe that with our manufacturing efficiency and low overhead we still would be able to compete favorably with OEMs, in such an event profit margins and earnings would be adversely affected. Also, OEMs could choose to use "free memory" as a promotional device in which case our ability to compete would be severely impaired. We face competition from DRAM manufacturers. DRAM manufacturers not only sell their product as discrete devices, but also as finished memory modules. They primarily sell these modules directly to OEMs and large distributors and as such compete with us. There can be no assurance that DRAM manufacturers will not expand their market and customer base, and our profit margins and earnings could be adversely affected. The market for our products may narrow over time. The principal market for our memory products consists of the manufacturers, buyers and owners of workstations and enterprise servers, classes of machines lying between large mainframe computers and personal computers. Personal computers and mobile devices are increasing in their power and sophistication and, as a result, are now filling some of the computational needs traditionally filled by workstations. The competition for the supply of after-market memory products in the PC industry is very competitive and to the extent we compete in this market we can be expected to have lower profit margins. There can be no assurance that this trend will not continue in the future, and that our financial performance will not be adversely affected. A portion of our operations is designed to meet the needs of the very competitive Intel and AMD processor-based motherboard market. In addition to selling server memory systems, we develop, manufacture and market a variety of memory products for motherboards that are Intel or AMD processor based. Many of these products are sold to OEMs and incorporated into computers and other equipment. This is an intensely competitive market with high volumes but lower margins. 19 Delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development of software products is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus on software plus services also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. Any claim that our products are defective could harm our business. We undertake to produce consistently high-quality products, free of defects and errors. Nevertheless, it is possible that our products may contain errors or defects. Our products are complex and must meet stringent user requirements, and we have consistently provided a lifetime warranty for our products. Any customer claims of errors or defects could result in increased expenditures for product testing, or increase our service costs and potentially lead to increased warranty claims. Errors or defects in our products may be caused by, among other things, errors or defects in the memory or controller components, including components we procure from third parties. These factors could result in the rejection of our products, product recalls, and damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources, increased customer service and support costs, warranty claims and litigation. We record an allowance for warranty and similar costs in connection with sales of our products, but actual warranty and similar costs may be significantly higher than our recorded estimate and harm our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, despite testing prior to its release, our software products may contain errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. The detection and correction of any errors can be time consuming and costly. Errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other software or hardware products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing our new software or new versions of our software products, we could lose revenues. End users, who rely on our software products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors than customers for software products generally. Errors in our software products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. We may make unprofitable acquisitions. The Company is actively looking at acquiring complementary products and related intellectual property. The possibility exists that an acquisition will be made at some time in the future. Uncertainty surrounds all acquisitions and it is possible that a particular acquisition may not result in a benefit to shareholders, particularly in the short-term. In addition, there can be no assurance that the business of MMB acquired by the Company will remain a profitable operating unit of the Company or that savings from having a larger consolidated business operation will continue. 20 The investments we make in research and development may not lead to profitable new products. The Company has implemented a strategy to introduce new and complementary products into its offerings portfolio, and expects to spend substantial sums of money on research and development of such possible new products. Specifically, the Company has made considerable investments in research and development of the RAMDisk product line. We will also continue to invest in new software and hardware products, services, and technologies. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of our products, unfavorably impacting revenue. There can be no assurance that these research and development expenditures will result in the identification or exploitation of any products that can be profitably sold by the Company. We may be adversely affected by exchange rate fluctuations. A portion of our accounts receivable and a portion of our expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. These proportions change over time. As a result, the Company's revenues and expenses may be adversely affected, from time to time, by changes in the relationship of the dollar to various foreign currencies on foreign exchange markets. Currently, the Company does not hedge its foreign currency risks, but could do so in the future. We may incur intangible asset and goodwill impairment charges which could harm our profitability. We periodically review the carrying values of our intangible assets and goodwill to determine whether such carrying values exceed the fair market value. Our goodwill is subject to an annual review for goodwill impairment. If impairment testing indicates that the carrying value exceeds its fair value, the intangible assets or goodwill is deemed impaired. The market price for our Common Stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility and may continue to experience significant volatility in the future. Our stock has experienced significant price and volume volatility for the past several years, and is likely to experience significant volatility in the future, which could result in investors losing all or part of their investments. We believe that such fluctuations will continue as a result of many factors, including financing plans, future announcements concerning us, our competitors or our principal customers regarding financial results or expectations, technological innovations, industry supply and demand dynamics, new product introductions, governmental regulations, the commencement or results of litigation or changes in earnings estimates by analysts, as well as a result of numerous factors outside our control. Significant declines in our stock price may interfere with our ability to raise additional funds through equity financing or to finance strategic transactions with our stock. A significant adverse change in the market value of our Common Stock could also trigger an interim goodwill impairment test that may result in a non-cash impairment charge. In addition, we have historically used equity incentive compensation as part of our overall compensation arrangements. The effectiveness of equity incentive compensation in retaining key employees may be adversely impacted by volatility in our stock price. 21 Our stock has limited liquidity. Although our stock is publicly traded, it has been observed that this market is “thin.” As a result, the common stock may trade at a discount to what would be its value if the stock enjoyed greater liquidity. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have rarely declared or paid any dividends on our Common Stock. We anticipate that we will retain any future earnings to support operations and to finance the development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our Common Stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. We are subject to the New Jersey Shareholders Protection Act. This statute has the effect of prohibiting any "business combination" - a very broadly defined term - with any "interested shareholder" unless the transaction is approved by the Board of Directors at a time before the interested shareholder had acquired a 10% ownership interest. This prohibition of "business combinations" is for five years after the shareholder became an "interested shareholder" and continues after that time period subject to certain exceptions. A practical consequence of this statute is that a hostile acquisition of our Company is unlikely to occur and hostile transactions which might be of benefit to our shareholders are unlikely to occur. We are a party to a number of litigations that could cause us to incur substantial cost to pay substantial damages. Effective as of the close of business on December 17, 2014, we terminated our agreement with MPP Associates, Inc., pursuant to which Marc P. Palker had been providing CFO services to us. On April 8, 2015, MPP Associates, Inc. and Mr. Palker filed a complaint, styled MPP Associates, Inc. and Marc Palker v. Dataram Corporation, Jon Isaac, David Moylan, Michael Markulec and Richard Butler, in the Superior Court of the State of New Jersey, Essex County, Docket No. ESX-L-002413-15. MPP Associates, Inc. asserts claims for breach of contract against Dataram for breach of contract and breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Mr. Palker asserts a claim against Dataram for breach of contract, alleging that he is a third party beneficiary of the agreement between MPP Associates, Inc. and Dataram. Mr. Palker also asserts a claim against Dataram and Messrs. Isaac, Moylan, Markulec and Butler for violation of the New Jersey Conscientious Employee Protection Act (“CEPA”), alleging that he was an “employee” of Dataram under the law and that his employment was terminated in retaliation for making lawfully protected objections concerning certain conduct. Plaintiffs do not demand a specific amount of damages, but instead seek legal damages, compensatory damages, lost earnings and benefits, punitive damages, attorney’s fees with enhancement, costs of suit, and pre-judgment and post-judgment interest. We believe that the allegations are fully without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously in this action. 22 Effective as of the close of business on January 22, 2015, the company terminated the employment agreement with John H. Freeman, our former Chief Executive Officer. On April 9, 2015, styled John Freeman v. Dataram Corporation, David A. Moylan, Jon Isaac, and John Does 1-5, in the Superior Court of the State of New Jersey, Essex County, Docket No. ESX-L-002471-15. Mr. Freeman asserts claims for breach of contract against Dataram for breach of his employment agreement and breach of a promissory note. Mr. Freeman asserts claims against the company and Messrs. Moylan and Isaac for defamation per se and defamation. Mr. Freeman similarly asserts a claim for defamation against the John Doe defendants. Mr. Freeman does not demand a specific amount of damages, but instead seeks compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorney’s fees, costs of suit, and pre-judgment interest. We believe that the allegations are fully without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously in this action. Similarly, on April 10, 2015, the company filed an action against Mr. Freeman, Mr. Palker and MPP Associates, Inc., styled as Dataram Corporation v. John Freeman, Marc Palker and MPP Associates, Inc., in the Superior Court of the State of New Jersey, Mercer County, Docket No. ESX-L-000886-15. The company asserts claims against Mr. Freeman for breach of the duty of loyalty and misappropriation of corporate property/conversion, claims against Messrs. Freeman and Palker for breach of fiduciary duty, and claims against Messrs. Freeman and Palker and MPP Associates, Inc. for fraud. The company seeks at least $110,640.52 against Mr. Freeman and legal damages, compensatory, consequential, and punitive damages, attorney’s fees, costs of suit, and interest against all defendants. Mr. Freeman filed a counterclaim in this action that mirrors his claim in the action described above. On June 26, 2015, Alethea Douglas, a former employee, filed a complaint against the Company with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, alleging a claim for age discrimination in connection with the termination of her employment effective May 20, 2015. We believe that the allegations are fully without merit and will defend ourselves vigorously in this action. Government regulations may have a negative effect on our business. Government regulators, or our customers, may in the future require us to comply with product or manufacturing standards that are more restrictive than current laws and regulations related to environmental matters, conflict minerals or other social responsibility initiatives. The implementation of these standards could affect the sourcing, cost and availability of materials used in the manufacture of our products. For example, there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” metals used in our products, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such metals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face challenges with regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. Non-compliance with these standards could cause us to lose sales to these customers and compliance with these standards could increase our costs, which may harm our operating results. We may suffer a breach of our computer security measures, which could harm our business. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to our information technology systems, we may lose proprietary data or suffer damage to our business. Our security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We believe we have obtained adequate available insurance to address the business which can be insured against with respect to our business. However, any security breach could result in disclosure of our trade secrets or confidential customer, supplier or employee data, or harm our ability to carry on our business, all of which could result in legal liability, harm to our reputation and otherwise harm our business. 23 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 