RISK FACTORS WE MAY HAVE TO SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE OUR WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS IN THE EVENT OF DRAM ALLOCATIONS. Over the past 20 years, availability of DRAMs has swung back and forth from oversupply to shortage. In times of shortage, we have been forced to invest substantial working capital resources in building and maintaining inventory. At such times we have bought DRAMs in excess of its customers' needs in order to ensure future allocations from DRAM manufacturers. We believe that the market for DRAMs is presently out of balance and there is an oversupply of DRAMS, but there can be no assurance that conditions of shortage may not prevail in the future. In the event of a shortage, we may not be able to obtain sufficient DRAMs to meet customers' needs in the short term, and we may have to invest substantial working capital resources in order to meet long term customer needs. WE COULD SUFFER LOSSES IF DRAM PRICES DECLINE SUBSTANTIALLY. We are at times required to maintain substantial inventories during periods of shortage and allocation. Thereafter, during periods of increasing availability of DRAM and rapidly declining prices, we have been forced to write down inventory. At the present time, the market is one of oversupply, and we seek to maintain a minimum inventory while meeting the needs of customers. But there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the future based upon high inventories and declining DRAM prices. OUR MEMORY PRODUCTS MAY VIOLATE OTHERS' PATENTS. Certain of our memory products are designed to be used with proprietary computer systems built by various OEM manufacturers. We often have to comply with the OEM's proprietary memory designs which may be patented, now or at some time in the future. OEMs have, at times, claimed that we have violated their patent rights by adapting our computer memory products to meet the requirements of their systems. It is our policy to, in unclear cases, either obtain an opinion of patent counsel prior to marketing, or obtain a license from the patent holder. We are presently licensed by Sun Microsystems and Silicon Graphics to sell memory products for certain of their products. However, there can be no assurance that memory designs will not be created in the future which will, in fact, be patented and which patent holders will require the payment of substantial royalties as a condition for our continued presence in the segment of the market covered by the patent or they may not give us a license. Nor can there be any assurance that our existing products do not violate one or more existing patents. WE MAY LOSE AN IMPORTANT CUSTOMER. During fiscal 2005, one customer, SGI, accounted for approximately 33% of the Company's revenue and the largest ten customers accounted for approximately 61% of the Company's revenue. There can be no assurance that one or more of these customers will cease or materially decrease their business with the Company in the future and that our financial performance will not be adversely affected thereby. WE MAY DISCONTINUE PAYING DIVIDENDS. On May 31, 2005, the Company announced that it would pay a dividend in the amount of $0.05 a share, payable June 29, 2005 and we expressed our intention to continue to pay that dividend each quarter into the future. However, our ability to continue paying dividends in this or any other amount is dependent upon our continued ability to generate profits and positive cash flow. While a failure to produce profits and positive cash flow in any particular quarter may not result in the Company discontinuing paying dividends, a succession of quarterly declines in earnings and cash flow could result in the Board of Directors taking that step. Our statement of intention that we will continue to pay dividends each quarter is not a guarantee. SALES DIRECTLY TO OEM'S CAN MAKE OUR REVENUES, EARNINGS, BACKLOG AND INVENTORY LEVELS UNEVEN. A greater proportion of our revenues now are derived from sales to OEM's. Revenue and earnings from these sales may become uneven as order sizes are typically large and often a completed order cannot be shipped until released by the OEM, e.g., to meet a "just in time" inventory requirement. This may occur at or near the end of an accounting period. In such case, revenues and earnings could decline for the period and inventory and backlog could increase. - 4 - WE FACE COMPETITION FROM OEMs. In the compatibles market we sell our products at a lower price than OEMs. Customers will often pay some premium for the "name brand" product when buying additional memory and OEMs seek to exploit this tendency by having a high profit margin on memory products. However, individual OEMs can change their policy and price memory products competitively. While we believe that with our manufacturing efficiency and low overhead we still would be able to compete favorably with OEMs, in such an event profit margins and earnings would be adversely affected. Also, OEM's can choose to use "free memory" as a promotional device in which case our ability to compete is severely impaired. WE FACE COMPETITION FROM DRAM MANUFACTURERS. DRAM manufacturers not only sell their product as discreet devices, but also as finished memory modules. They primarily sell these modules directly to OEMs and large distributors and as such compete with us on a limited basis. There can be no assurance that DRAM manufacturers will not continue to expand their market and customer base. In such a case, they would become a more direct competitor to the Company and our profit margins and earnings could be adversely affected. THE MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY NARROW OVER TIME. The principal market for our memory products is the manufacturers, buyers and owners of workstations and enterprise servers, classes of machines lying between large mainframe computers and personal computers. Personal computers are increasing in their power and sophistication and, as a result, are now filling some of the computational needs traditionally filled by workstations. The competition for the supply of after-market memory products in the PC industry is very competitive and to the extent we compete in this market we can be expected to have lower profit margins. There can be no assurance that this trend will not continue in the future, and that our financial performance will not be adversely affected. A PORTION OF OUR OPERATIONS ARE DESIGNED TO MEET THE NEEDS OF THE VERY COMPETITIVE INTEL PROCESSOR-BASED MOTHERBOARD MARKET. In addition to selling server memory systems, we develop, manufacturer and market a variety of memory products for motherboards that are Intel processor based. Many of these products are sold to OEMs and incorporated into computers and other equipment. This is an intensely competitive market with high volumes but lower margins. WE MAY MAKE UNPROFITABLE ACQUISITIONS. While the Company is not currently engaged in discussions which could lead to an acquisition, the possibility exists that an acquisition will be made at some time in the future. Uncertainty surrounds all acquisitions and it is possible that a particular acquisition may not result in a benefit to shareholders, particularly in the short term. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. A portion of our accounts receivable and a portion of our expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. These proportions change over time. As a result, the Company's revenues and expenses may be adversely affected, from time to time, by changes in the relationship of the dollar to various foreign currencies on foreign exchange markets. The Company does not currently hedge its foreign currency risks. OUR STOCK HAS LIMITED LIQUIDITY. Although our stock is publicly traded, it has been observed that this market is "thin." As a result, the Common Stock may trade at a discount to what would be its value if the stock enjoyed greater liquidity. - 5 - WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE NEW JERSEY SHAREHOLDERS PROTECTION ACT. This statute has the effect of prohibiting any "business combination" - a very broadly defined term - with any "interested shareholder" unless the transaction is approved by the Board of Directors at a time before the interested shareholder had acquired a 10% ownership interest. This prohibition of "business combinations" is for five years after the shareholder became an "interested shareholder" and continues after that time period subject to certain exceptions. A practical consequence of this statute is that a hostile acquisition of our company is unlikely to occur and hostile transactions which might be of benefit to shareholders may not occur. (b) Financial Information about Industry Segments. The Company operates in one industry segment. (c) Narrative Description of Business. Industry Background The market for the Company's memory products is principally the OEMs who manufacture and buyers and owners of workstations and enterprise servers. These systems have been important to the growth of the Internet. A workstation, like a PC, is designed to provide computer resources to individual users. A workstation differs from a PC by providing substantially greater computational performance, input/output capability and graphic display. Workstations are nearly always networked. As a result of this networking capability of both workstations and PCs, the enterprise server has grown in importance. Enterprise servers are computer systems on a network which provide dedicated functions accessible by all workstations and other systems on the same network. Examples of different types of servers in use today are: file servers, communication servers, computation servers, database servers, print servers and storage servers. Dataram designs, produces and markets memory products for workstations and servers sold by Sun, HP, IBM, SGI and Dell. Additionally, the Company produces and markets memory for Intel processor based motherboards for use by OEMs and channel assemblers. The "open system" philosophy espoused by most of the general computer industry has played a part in enlarging the market for third party vendors. Under the "open system" philosophy, manufacturers adhere to industry design standards, enabling users to "mix and match" hardware and software products from a variety of vendors so that a system can be configured for the user's application in the most economical manner with reduced concern for compatibility and support. Memory products for workstations and servers have become commodities with substantial competition from OEMs and a number of independent memory manufacture suppliers. Generally, growth in the memory market closely follows both the growth in unit shipments of system vendors and the growth of memory requirements per system. Management estimates that long-term growth trends measured by revenue in the market for its products is increasing. In addition to the growth in the market, management estimates that in the compatibles market, sales by system vendors constitute 80% of the memory market. Thus, there is an opportunity for growth through penetration of the system vendor's market share. To successfully compete with system vendors, Dataram must continue to respond to customers' needs in a short time frame. To support customers' needs, the Company has a dedicated and highly automated manufacturing facility that is designed to produce and ship customer orders within twenty-four hours or less. Recently Dataram has seen a significant growth in its business in the OEM market. Management believes that increasingly cost conscious OEMs are looking to independent memory suppliers such as Dataram for the low-cost supply of memory modules. - 6 - Products The Company's principal business is the development, manufacture and marketing of memory modules which can be added to enterprise servers and workstations to upgrade or expand the capabilities of such systems. When vendors produce computer systems adhering to open system industry standards, the development effort for Dataram and other independent memory manufacturers is straightforward and allows for the use of many standard components. Distribution Dataram sells its memory products to OEM's, distributors, value-added resellers and larger end-users. The Company has sales offices in New Jersey, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Germany and Japan. Product Warranty and Service Management believes that the Company's reputation for the reliability of its memory products and the confidence of prospective purchasers in Dataram's ability to provide service over the life of the product are important factors in making sales. As a consequence, the Company adopted many years ago a Lifetime Warranty program for its memory products. The economic useful life of the computer systems to which Dataram's memory equipment is attached is almost always substantially less than the physical useful life of the equipment itself. Thus, memory systems are unlikely to "wear out." The Company's experience is that less than 1% of all the products it sells are returned under the Lifetime Warranty. Working Capital Requirements The memory product business is heavily dependent upon the price of DRAMs. Producers of DRAM are required to invest substantial capital resources to produce their end product. Their marginal cost is low as a percentage of the total cost of the product. As a result, the world-wide market for DRAMs has swung in the past from period to period from oversupply to shortage. During periods of substantial oversupply, the Company has seen falling prices for DRAMs and wide availability of DRAMs allowing the Company to have minimum inventories to meet the needs of customers. During periods of shortage, DRAMs are allocated and the Company must invest heavily in inventory in order to continue to be assured of the supply of DRAMs from vendors. Thus, the Company must maintain large cash reserves. At the present time, the market for DRAMs is one of oversupply. At April 30, 2005, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $9.3 million and had no debt. Memory Product Complexity DRAM memory products for workstations and enterprise servers had, for many years, been undergoing a process of simplification with a corresponding decline in profit margins as competitors' entry into the market became easier. However, recent trends in the market have seen the development by OEMs of more complex memory designs. This has enabled Dataram to increase its margins somewhat. Engineering and Development The Company's ability to compete successfully depends upon its ability to identify new memory needs of its customers. To achieve this goal, the Company's engineering group continually monitors computer system vendors' new product developments, and the Company evaluates and tests major components as they become available. Dataram designs prototype memory modules and subjects them to reliability testing procedures. During its fiscal year ended April 30, 2005, the Company incurred costs of $1,299,000 for engineering and product development, $1,284,000 in fiscal 2004 and $1,539,000 in fiscal 2003. - 7 - Raw Materials The Company purchases standard dynamic random access memory ("DRAM") chips. The cost of such chips is approximately 75% of the total cost of memory products. Fluctuations in the availability or prices of memory chips can have a significant impact on the Company's profit. Dataram has created close relationships with a number of primary suppliers while qualifying and developing alternate sources as a back up. The qualification program consists of extensive evaluation of process capabilities, on-time delivery performance and financial stability of each supplier. Alternative sources are qualified to normally assure supply in the event of a problem with the primary source or to handle surges in demand. Manufacturing The Company assembles its memory boards at its manufacturing facility in Bucks County, Pennsylvania. Backlog The Company expects that all backlog on hand will be filled during the current fiscal year. The Company's backlog at April 30, 2005 was $3,735,000, and at April 30, 2004 was $4,682,000. Seasonality The Company's business can be seasonal with December and January being the slowest months. Competition The intensely competitive computer industry is characterized by rapid technological change and constant pricing pressures. These characteristics are equally applicable to the third party memory market, where pricing is a major consideration in the buying decision. Dataram competes with Sun, HP, SGI, IBM and Dell, as well as with a number of third party memory suppliers, including Kingston Technology. Although many of Dataram's competitors possess significantly greater financial, marketing and technological resources, the Company competes favorably based on the buying criteria of price/performance, time-to-market, product quality, reliability, service/support, breadth of product line and compatibility with computer system vendors' technology. Dataram's objective is to continue to remain strong in all of these areas with particular focus on price/performance and time-to-market, which management believes are two of the more important criteria in the selection of third party memory product suppliers. Market research and analysis capability by the Company is necessary to ensure timely information on new products and technologies coming from the computer system vendors and from the overall memory market. Dataram must continue low cost, high volume production while remaining flexible to satisfy the time-to-market requirement. The Company believes that its 38-year reputation for providing quality products is an important factor to its customers when making a purchase decision. To strengthen this reputation, the Company has a comprehensive lifetime warranty program which provides customers with added confidence in buying from Dataram. See "Business-Product Warranty and Service." Patents, Trademarks and Licenses The Company believes that its success depends primarily upon the price and performance of its products rather than on ownership of copyrights or patents. - 8 - Sale of memory products for systems that use proprietary memory design can from time to time give rise to claims of copyright or patent infringement. In most such instances the Company has either obtained the opinion of patent counsel that its products do not violate such patents or copyrights or obtained a license from the original equipment manufacturer. To the best of the Company's knowledge and belief, no Company product infringes any valid copyright or patent. However, because of rapid technological development in the computer industry with concurrent extensive patent coverage and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, questions of infringement may continue to arise in the future. If such patents or copyrights are perfected in the future, the Company believes, based upon industry practice, that any necessary licenses would be obtainable upon the payment of reasonable royalties. Employees As of April 30, 2005, the Company had 100 full-time employees. The Company believes it has satisfactory relationships with its employees. None of the Company's employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Environmental Compliance with federal, state and local provisions which have been enacted or adopted to regulate the protection of the environment does not have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of the Company. The Company does not expect to make any material expenditures for environmental control facilities in either the current fiscal year (fiscal 2006) or the succeeding fiscal year (fiscal 2007). (d) Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales. REVENUES (000's) Export Fiscal U.S. Europe Other Consolidated ______ _____ ______ ______ ____________ 2005 $50,210 8,716 6,758 $65,684 2004 $43,780 10,994 7,210 $61,984 2003 $29,495 13,180 10,854 $53,529 PERCENTAGES Export Fiscal U.S. Europe Other Consolidated ______ _____ ______ ______ ____________ 2005 76.4% 13.3% 10.3% 100.0% 2004 70.6% 17.8% 11.6% 100.0% 2003 55.1% 24.6% 20.0% 100.0% 