Item 1A. RISK FACTORS WE MAY HAVE TO SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASE OUR WORKING CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS IN THE EVENT OF DRAM ALLOCATIONS. Over the past 20 years, availability of DRAMs has swung back and forth from oversupply to shortage. In times of shortage, we have been forced to invest substantial working capital resources in building and maintaining inventory. At such times we have bought DRAMs in excess of our customers' needs in order to ensure future allocations from DRAM manufacturers. We believe that the market for DRAMs is presently out of balance and there is an oversupply of DRAMs, but there can be no assurance that conditions of shortage may not prevail in the future. In the event of a shortage, we may not be able to obtain sufficient DRAMs to meet customers' needs in the short term, and we may have to invest substantial working capital resources in order to meet long term customer needs. WE COULD SUFFER LOSSES IF DRAM PRICES DECLINE SUBSTANTIALLY. We are at times required to maintain substantial inventories during periods of shortage and allocation. Thereafter, during periods of increasing availability of DRAMs and rapidly declining prices, we have been forced to write down inventory. At the present time, the market is one of oversupply, and we seek to maintain a minimum inventory while meeting the needs of customers. But there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses in the future based upon high inventories and declining DRAM prices. OUR MEMORY PRODUCTS MAY VIOLATE OTHERS' PATENTS. Certain of our memory products are designed to be used with proprietary computer systems built by various OEM manufacturers. We often have to comply with the OEM's proprietary memory designs which may be patented, now or at some time in the future. OEMs have, at times, claimed that we have violated their patent rights by adapting our computer memory products to meet the requirements of their systems. It is our policy to, in unclear cases, either obtain an opinion of patent counsel prior to marketing, or obtain a license from the patent holder. We are presently licensed by Sun Microsystems and Silicon Graphics to sell memory products for certain of their products. However, there can be no assurance that memory designs will not be created in the future which will, in fact, be patented and which patent holders will require the payment of substantial royalties as a condition for our 8 continued presence in the segment of the market covered by the patent or they may not give us a license. Nor can there be any assurance that our existing products do not violate one or more existing patents. WE MAY LOSE AN IMPORTANT CUSTOMER. During fiscal 2009, the largest ten customers accounted for approximately 44.7% of the Company's revenues, with one customer accounting for approximately 16.7% of the Company's revenues. There can be no assurance that one or more of these customers will not cease or materially decrease their business with the Company in the future and that our financial performance will not be adversely affected thereby. SALES DIRECTLY TO OEM'S CAN MAKE OUR REVENUES, EARNINGS, BACKLOG AND INVENTORY LEVELS UNEVEN. Revenue and earnings from OEM sales may become uneven as order sizes are typically large and often a completed order cannot be shipped until released by the OEM, e.g., to meet a "just in time" inventory requirement. This may occur at or near the end of an accounting period. In such case, revenues and earnings could decline for the period and inventory and backlog could increase. WE FACE COMPETITION FROM OEMs. In the compatibles market we sell our products at a lower price than OEMs. Customers will often pay some premium for the "name brand" product when buying additional memory and OEMs seek to exploit this tendency by having a high profit margin on memory products. However, individual OEMs can change their policy and price memory products competitively. While we believe that with our manufacturing efficiency and low overhead we still would be able to compete favorably with OEMs, in such an event profit margins and earnings would be adversely affected. Also, OEMs could choose to use "free memory" as a promotional device in which case our ability to compete would be severely impaired. WE FACE COMPETITION FROM DRAM MANUFACTURERS. DRAM manufacturers not only sell their product as discreet devices, but also as finished memory modules. They primarily sell these modules directly to OEMs and large distributors and as such compete with us. There can be no assurance that DRAM manufacturers will not expand their market and customer base, and our profit margins and earnings could be adversely affected. THE MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY NARROW OVER TIME. The principal market for our memory products consists of the manufacturers, buyers and owners of workstations and enterprise servers, classes of machines lying between large mainframe computers and personal computers. Personal computers are increasing in their power and sophistication and, as a result, are now filling some of the computational needs traditionally filled by workstations. The competition for the supply of after-market memory products in the PC industry is very competitive and to the extent we compete in this market we can be expected to have lower profit margins. There can be no assurance that this trend will not continue in the future, and that our financial performance will not be adversely affected. 9 A PORTION OF OUR OPERATIONS ARE DESIGNED TO MEET THE NEEDS OF THE VERY COMPETITIVE INTEL AND AMD PROCESSOR-BASED MOTHERBOARD MARKET. In addition to selling server memory systems, we develop, manufacture and market a variety of memory products for motherboards that are Intel or AMD processor based. Many of these products are sold to OEMs and incorporated into computers and other equipment. This is an intensely competitive market with high volumes but lower margins. WE MAY MAKE UNPROFITABLE ACQUISITIONS. The Company is actively looking at acquiring complementary products and related intellectual property. The possibility exists that an acquisition will be made at some time in the future. Uncertainty surrounds all acquisitions and it is possible that a particular acquisition may not result in a benefit to shareholders, particularly in the short term. In addition, there can be no assurance that the recently acquired business of MMB will be, or remain, a profitable operating unit of the Company or that expected savings from having a larger consolidated business operation will occur. THE INVESTMENTS WE MAKE IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT MAY NOT LEAD TO PROFITABLE NEW PRODUCTS. The Company has implemented a strategy to introduce new and complementary products into its offerings portfolio, and expects to spend substantial sums of money on research and development of such possible new products. There can be no assurance, however, that these research and development expenditures will result in the identification or exploitation of any products that can be profitably sold by the Company. WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS. A portion of our accounts receivable and a portion of our expenses are denominated in foreign currencies. These proportions change over time. As a result, the Company's revenues and expenses may be adversely affected, from time to time, by changes in the relationship of the dollar to various foreign currencies on foreign exchange markets. The Company does not currently hedge its foreign currency risks. OUR STOCK HAS LIMITED LIQUIDITY. Although our stock is publicly traded, it has been observed that this market is "thin." As a result, the common stock may trade at a discount to what would be its value if the stock enjoyed greater liquidity. WE ARE SUBJECT TO THE NEW JERSEY SHAREHOLDERS PROTECTION ACT. This statute has the effect of prohibiting any "business combination" - a very broadly defined term - with any "interested shareholder" unless the transaction is approved by the Board of Directors at a time before the interested shareholder had acquired a 10% ownership interest. This prohibition of "business combinations" is for five years after the shareholder became an "interested shareholder" and continues after that time period subject to certain exceptions. A practical consequence of this statute is that a hostile acquisition of our company is unlikely to occur and hostile transactions which might be of benefit to our shareholders are unlikely to occur. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 