Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business. The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in Item 1. Our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks and our future operating results may differ materially from the results described in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business and our industry, including those discussed below. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Please note that additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our markets are highly competitive and we face rapid technological changes in the medical device industry, which may impact the growth of our business. Our future growth is dependent upon our ability to market our products effectively in a strong competitive environment and respond to rapidly changing technology and alternative products/treatments. The medical device market is intensely competitive and we encounter significant competition from various medical device companies in each market in which our products are sold. Our competitors range from small start-up companies to companies 16 Table of Contents which are larger than we are and have significantly greater resources and broader product offerings. We expect competition will continue to intensify as the medical device industry consolidates and new competitors, products and treatments are brought into the market. In addition, we face competition from alternative therapies primarily in our Cardiac Assist, InterVascular and IP businesses. Our customers consider many factors when choosing suppliers, including product reliability, clinical outcomes, product availability, price and services provided by the manufacturer. Market share can shift as a result of technological innovation and other business factors. We may experience decreasing prices for the products and services we offer due to pricing pressure experienced by our customers from managed care organizations and other third-party payors, increased market power of our competitors as the medical device industry consolidates and increased competition among medical device companies. If the prices for our products and services decrease and we are unable to reduce our expenses, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires significant research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approval, and therefore may not result in commercially viable products. Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires that significant resources be devoted to research and development activities, clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approval. In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and development programs largely on the development of next-generation and new technology offerings. We have continued to increase our investments in R&D over the past few years and anticipate that we will continue to increase R&D spending in the future. If we are unable to develop and launch new products as anticipated, or if our R&D efforts do not achieve technical feasibility, our ability to maintain or expand our market position may be adversely impacted. Failure to successfully select, negotiate and integrate acquired technologies, products or businesses could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made acquisitions and investments in recent years, including our acquisition of the ClearGlide EVH product in January 2006 and Artema Medical AB in June 2007. The success of any acquisition or investment that we may undertake will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to identify suitable opportunities for acquisition or investment • our ability to finance any future acquisition or investment on terms acceptable to us • litigation related to acquired technologies • our ability to integrate the acquired business or technology successfully with our existing business • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies • adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies • any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with our combined product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases If we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions or investments, we may be unable to continue to grow our business significantly or may need to record asset impairment charges in the future. We are subject to widespread government regulation which may delay the approval of our products or result in the recall of previously approved products. We are subject to compliance with numerous Federal, state and international government regulations regarding design, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, installation and service of medical devices. Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”), by comparable agencies in foreign 17 Table of Contents countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDC Act, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed in the United States. In addition, most major markets for medical devices outside the U.S. require clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. Under the Safe Medical Device Act of 1990, all medical devices are classified as Class I, Class II or Class III devices. In addition to the above requirements, Class II devices must comply with pre-market notification, or 510(k), regulations and with performance standards or special controls established by the FDA. Subject to certain exceptions, a Class III device must receive pre-market approval from the FDA before it can be commercially distributed in the United States. Our principal products are designated as Class II and Class III devices. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for new products, or with respect to enhancements or modifications to existing products, could: • take a significant period of time • require the expenditure of substantial resources • involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing • require changes to the products • result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products As a device manufacturer, we are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the Federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or that it malfunctioned in a way that could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. Even after products have received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required clearances from the FDA for new products or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any FDA approval will not be subsequently withdrawn. The failure to receive product approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products or the withdrawal of product approval by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations because we would not be able to sell unapproved or recalled products and we may incur significant costs related to product recalls. Cost containment pressures and legislative or regulatory reforms may decrease the demand for our products and the prices that customers are willing to pay for our products. Our future growth is dependent upon health care cost containment and third party/government reimbursement policies including the impact of hospital buying groups and industry consolidation. Healthcare costs have significantly risen over the past decade. There have been and may continue to be proposals by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to control these costs. Certain reform proposals and other policy changes, if passed, could impose limitations on the prices we will be able to charge for our products, or the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors. These limitations could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations because our sales revenue would be reduced. Since we derive a significant portion of our revenues from international operations, changes in international economic or regulatory conditions could have a material impact on the results of our operations. Our products are currently marketed around the world, with our largest geographic markets outside of the United States being Europe and Japan. Our operations in countries outside the United States accounted for approximately 41% of our sales in fiscal 2007. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in international markets which subjects us to risks generally associated with international operations, such as: unexpected changes 18 Table of Contents in regulatory requirements; tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; differing labor regulations; longer payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; risks arising from a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, including the possibility of terrorist actions; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; foreign exchange controls that restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds; export and import restrictions or prohibitions; delays from customs brokers or government agencies; changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs; differing protection of intellectual property; and potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from operating in multiple jurisdictions with different tax laws. Any one or more of these risks could materially adversely impact the success of our international operations. Reduction or interruption in supply of components and materials used to manufacture our products, resulting from events such as damage to any of our manufacturing facilities or the loss of any of our sole-source suppliers, and the inability to develop alternative sources of supply, could impair our ability to meet sales demand and adversely affect our manufacturing operations and related product sales. Reduction or interruption in the supply of components and materials used to manufacture our products, reliance on third party manufacturers for certain products, and damage to any of our manufacturing facilities, which could temporarily impair our ability to meet sales demand, may adversely affect our manufacturing and distribution operations and related product sales. If an event occurred that resulted in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, we purchase many of the components and raw materials used in manufacturing our products from numerous suppliers. For reasons of quality assurance, sole source availability or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials are available only from a sole supplier. Due to the FDA’s stringent regulations and requirements regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. The reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost effective manner. A loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel may adversely affect our business. Our future growth is dependent upon our reliance on key employees, including executive officers, management, sales and technical employees involved in R&D. The talent and drive of our employees is an important factor in the success of our business. Our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in developing, marketing and selling of new and existing products. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain talented employees and key management we may not be able to meet our business objectives. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property successfully our business could be adversely affected. Intellectual property rights are important to our business and our ability to compete effectively with other companies is dependent upon the proprietary nature of our technologies. We also rely upon trade secrets, manufacturing know-how, continuing technology innovations and licensing opportunities to maintain and improve our competitive position. Our policy is to file patent applications in the United States and foreign countries where rights are available and where we believe it is commercially advantageous to do so. We hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents. In addition, we also have filed a number of patent applications that are currently pending. Pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, current or future patents issued to or licensed by us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and the rights granted thereunder may not provide a competitive advantage to us or prevent competitors from entering markets which we currently serve. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend them against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal action of that type could be costly and time consuming to us and any lawsuit may not be successful. The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights which we own or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property could increase the competitive pressures that we face and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Pending and future litigation and any resulting settlement awards may be costly and impact our ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in the future. We are a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. To mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes related to product liability and general liability matters, we purchase third-party insurance coverage subject to deductibles and loss limitations. We may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable. In addition, such product liability settlements may negatively impact our ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 