Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company’s products may not be accepted by the marketplace. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company received an inquiry from the SEC regarding its accounting reporting, as well as questioning whether the company’s activities with respect to its cash management constituted a reason to designate it as an investment company. The accounting changes did not result in any material changes with respect to the company’s total income, assets or revenues, but did result in a shift in income. The company has an investment portfolio and a policy of cash management which has been in place for over 20 years. The company is heavily dependent on income from its investment activities. This issue of investment company was raised in 1984/5, when the company had a secondary offering which raised approximately $7 million. The issue was again raised in 1992 with no action taken. In 2005 the issue was again raised. There are a number of criteria, including assets and income which could qualify a company as in investment company or what is also termed an inadvertent investment company. Many companies in their research and development phase become an inadvertent investment company because they have almost no income from their products except income derived from their capital. The Investment Company Act, however, recognizes this and provides a number of Safe Harbor exemptions to avoid this designation. These exemptions include “(1) whether the company uses its securities and cash to finance its research and development activities; (2) whether the company has substantial research and development expenses and insignificant investment-related expenses; (3) whether the company invests in securities in a manner that is consistent with the preservation of its assets until needed to finance operations. If a company satisfies these factors, the remaining major factors of the traditional primary business test -- the company’s historical development, its public representations of policy, and the activities of its officers and directors – are examined.: (taken from Section B – Research and Development Companies from Release No. IC-26077; File No. S7-47-02). Under rule 3a-8 as proposed, a company could rely on the rule’s nonexclusive safe harbor if it (a) had research and development expenses that were a substantial percentage of its total expenses for its last four fiscal quarters combined and that equaled at least half of its investment revenues for that period; (b) had investment-related expenses that did not exceed five percent of its total expenses for its last four fiscal quarters combined; (c) made its investments to conserve capital and liquidity until it used the funds in its primary business; and (d) was primarily engaged, directly or through a company or companies that it controls primarily, in a non-investment business, as evidenced by the activities of its officers, directors and employees, its public representation of policies, and its historical development. The company believes it meets these last criteria. One of the Safe Harbor designations is to have 45% of liquid assets in government short term paper such as T-bills. In the case of Daxor, the company has not used the T-bill Safe Harbor designations. In Part II, Section 7A, we have provided a perspective of what would have occurred had we, in 1993, decided to avail ourselves of Safe Harbor provisions and invest the company’s assets in T-bills. The company is highly dependent on income from its investment portfolio. For the past 13 years the company has experienced an operating deficit as it expanded its research and development and marketing efforts. The company has had a firm policy of operating so that it will not find itself in the sudden position of imminent bankruptcy. From time to time the company has received offers of additional financing. Such financing which has been offered has been at very deleterious terms to existing shareholders. The 17 company believes that as blood volume technology gains increasing acceptance, that it will be able to raise additional capital on more reasonable terms. The company also believes that the market for a safer alternative frozen blood banking system is very large but in the initial phases such a system the company would operate at a significant deficit for an indeterminate time. At the present time the company is focusing its efforts primarily on the blood volume analyzer but will explore opportunities for raising additional capital. The company is currently expanding its expenditure on blood banking To provide additional understanding of what the Company’s financial status would be had we elected to utilize a Safe Harbor investment policy of T-bills, we have prepared a series of graphs derived from information from previous 10K filings. Examination of the graphs makes it apparent that the company would have been on the verge of bankruptcy in 2006 had it instituted a T-bill policy The Company’s current investment policy does entail higher risks which were understood and approved by the members of the Board of Directors. The results of this investment policy have proven, over time, to be prudent. For 84 consecutive quarters the Company’s investment portfolio has always been above historical cost. If the Company had not followed this course, there is a high likelihood that it would have been bankrupt. We did not provide an analysis of what would have occurred had we done that in prior years from 1985 on, but it is clear from this analysis that the company would have already been bankrupt. The most important issue with respect to whether a company is an investment company is what the company does with its earnings. In the case of Daxor, we utilize all our investment income, plus retained earnings, for research and development and for operation of the company. The company’s investments are managed by the CEO, Dr. Feldschuh, who spends approximately 15% of his time, 5 – 7 hours a week, on investment activities. He is assisted by a single half-time employee. No other member of the company has any role in these decisions. The portfolio has certain parameters which are described elsewhere. The company has, in response to the SEC inquiry, has made a number of changes and increased its disclosures. The company has also provided a formal response in December 2005 to the SEC on the question why it is an operating company and not an investment company. 