Item 1A. Risk Factors Operating Losses The Company incurred cumulative operating losses of $26,075,156 during the five year period ended December 31, 2009. These losses have mainly resulted from ongoing expenses for marketing and research and development as the Company attempts to build a market for its products. During this same time period, the Company had cumulative net income from investments of $62,705,493 which covered operating losses and provided the necessary funds for our continued research and development and marketing. It is the opinion of management that the financial health of the Company would have been adversely affected if our net income from investments during this time had been substantially less than losses from operations. 21 During the two years ended December 31, 2006, the Company had cumulative losses after income taxes of $2,121,512. For the three years ended December 31, 2009 the Company had cumulative net income after income taxes of $31,593,243. There is no guarantee that future income from investments will continue to completely offset operating expenses as was the case on an individual and cumulative basis for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009. Sales of Blood Volume Kits In the Company’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, the sale of Blood Volume Kits accounted for 67.4% of the Company’s total consolidated sales. There were four customers (hospitals) that accounted for 60.3% of the Company’s sale of Blood Volume Kits. Management believes that the loss of any one customer would have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated business for a short period of time. All four of these hospitals have purchased their BVA-100 equipment. The Company has not had any situations in which a hospital, after having purchased a blood volume analyzer, discontinued purchasing Volumex kits. This suggests that, when more hospitals purchase equipment, they will continue with ongoing purchase of Volumex kits. The Company continues to seek new customers, so that any one hospital will represent a smaller percentage of overall sales. In the Company’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, the sale of Blood Volume Kits accounted for 57.1% of the Company’s total consolidated sales. There were three customers (hospitals) that accounted for 49.5% of the Company’s sale of Blood Volume Kits. Medicare and Medicaid Reimbursement As disclosed in our previous filings, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) implemented a significant policy change affecting the reimbursement for all diagnostic radiopharmaceutical products and contrast agents which was effective as of January 1, 2008. As a result of this policy change, diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals such as Daxor’s Volumex are no longer separately reimbursable by Medicare for outpatient services. At this time, it is still unclear if this policy change will also be implemented by private third party health insurance companies. The reimbursement policy for hospital outpatients through December 31, 2007 included payment for both the cost of the procedure to perform a blood volume analysis (BVA) and the radiopharmaceutical (Daxor’s Volumex radiopharmaceutical). CMS’s policy now only includes the reimbursement for the procedure and would require the hospital to absorb the cost of the radiopharmaceutical. There will be an upward adjustment for the procedure code to include some of the costs of the radiopharmaceutical. However, this upward adjustment does not entirely cover the costs associated with the procedure and the radiopharmaceutical. In response to Medicare’s change in its reimbursement policy for diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals, Daxor has lobbied CMS both individually and as a member of the Society of Nuclear Medicine’s APC Task Force, which is a select group of representatives from industry and healthcare that represents the more than 16,000 nuclear medicine professionals in the United States. One of the missions of the APC Task Force is to work directly with the CMS in an attempt to amend the current policy limiting the reimbursement of diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals for outpatient diagnostic services. There is no guarantee that the APC task force will be successful in their efforts to persuade the CMS to amend their policy of limiting the reimbursement of diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals for outpatient diagnostic services. Health Insurance Legislation On March 21, 2010, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R.3590).” This legislation was signed into law by President Obama on March 23, 2010. The goal of this legislation is to make healthcare more accessable to Americans. At this time we are unable to quantify how this legislation will affect our operating income. Although it is possible that increased coverage could lead to greater access to our products and services if the reimbursement rate is lower, this would limit the benefit to Daxor and could have a negative impact on our operating results and our business. Available for Sale Securities At December 31, 2009, 93.5% of the fair market value of the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of utility stocks whose market price can be sensitive to rising interest rates. At December 31, 2008, 79.5% of the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of utility stocks. The Company’s investment policy calls for a minimum of 80% of the investment portfolio to consist of utility stocks. The Board of Directors has authorized this minimum to be temporarily lowered to 70% when management deems it to be necessary. At March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 the percentage of the Company’s investment portfolio which consisted of utility stocks was 78.0%, 79.9% and 85.5% respectively. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of 83 separate stocks. The top three holdings as of this date in the investment portfolio were Entergy Corporation, First Energy Corporation and Exelon. These three holdings comprised 39.9% of the value of the investment portfolio and also accounted for 30.0% of the dividend income for the year ended December 31, 2009. A reduction in dividend payments by these companies could have a material effect on the Company’s dividend income. 22 The Company also receives significant income from option sales related to its investment portfolio. The income from options is variable, and less predictable than income from dividends from the Company’s portfolio, which have minor variations. The ability of the Company to sell options is related to the market value of its available for sale securities. If there is a decrease in the market value of the Company’ available for sale securities, this could negatively impact income from option sales. There is a risk that in an environment of rising interest rates that the market value of these stocks could decline and the utilities could reduce their dividend payments to compensate for increased interest expense. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund research and development and marketing efforts necessary to build a market for our products. Investment Company In 2005 and 2007, the Company and Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, its President and Chief Executive Officer, respectively, received Wells Notices from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) requesting their comments on the SEC Staff’s view that the Company was in violation of Section 7(a) of the Investment Company Act in that it was operating as an unregistered investment company. The Company and Dr. Feldschuh responded to those requests when made. The Company has not received a closing notice or other substantive response from the SEC to either of these submissions. No conclusions regarding disposition of our cash management policy should be drawn from the lack of a closing notice or other substantive response to our s ubmissions to the SEC in response to the Wells Notices. In November 2009, the staff of the Northeast Regional Office of the SEC contacted the Company and invited both the Company and Dr. Feldschuh to make a new Wells submission based upon more recent operations and results. The Company and Dr. Feldschuh responded to the staff’s invitation on December 20, 2009. The Company has not received a closing notice or other substantive response from the SEC to its December 20, 2009 submission. No conclusions regarding disposition of our cash management policy should be drawn from the lack of a closing notice or other substantive response to our submission to the SEC in response to the Wells Notices. There is a risk that the SEC may attempt to designate Daxor as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Key Individual The Company has a significant dependence on a single individual, Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, who is the CEO of the Company. Dr. Feldschuh is the Chief Scientist of the Company and is believed to have more experience with blood volume measurement than any other physician in the United States. He is involved in assisting and advising various physician groups that are conducting research. His scientific knowledge would be difficult to replace. Dr. Feldschuh is also the sole individual responsible for investment decisions with respect to the Company’s investment portfolio. The loss of his services in this area would be expected to result in a material reduction in return on the Company’s assets. Patents Our patents for the BVA 100 expire in May 2010. We are in the process of developing an automated system for measuring total body albumin, which we will incorporate into the next generation of Blood Volume Analyzers when we apply for a new patent. It is difficult to determine when or if our application for a new patent would be approved. The blood volume analyzer, however, works most efficiently with the tracer injection kit system which has a separate patent and which expires in 2016. It is possible that another Company could develop another version of the Blood Volume Analyzer which would use a different tracer injection kit. To the best of our knowledge, this has not happened yet and Management views the development of a competing tracer injection kit as unlikely. Volumex Syringes All of the Company’s orders for Volumex syringes are filled by a single FDA approved radio pharmaceutical manufacturer. This manufacturer is the only one approved by the FDA in the United States to manufacture Volumex for interstate commerce. If this manufacturer were to cease filling the Volumex syringes for Daxor before the Company had a chance to make alternative arrangements, the effect on Daxor’s operating revenue could be material. Regulatory Risk or Approvals There is a risk of delay until regulatory approvals are received for any new products the Company may attempt to bring to market in the future. At this point, management is unable to assess how long such a delay would be or the effect on sales that it could have. Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments In 2005 and 2007, the Company and Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, its President and Chief Executive Officer, respectively, received Wells Notices from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) requesting their comments on the SEC Staff’s view that the Company was in violation of Section 7(a) of the Investment Company Act in that it was operating as an unregistered investment company. The Company and Dr. Feldschuh responded to those requests when made. The Company has not received a closing notice or other substantive response from the SEC to either of these submissions. No conclusions regarding disposition of our cash management policy should be drawn from the lack of a closing notice or other substantive response to our submissions to the SEC in response to the Wells Notices. In November 2009, the staff of the Northeast Regional Office of the SEC contacted the Company and invited both the Company and Dr. Feldschuh to make a new Wells submission based upon more recent operations and results. The Company and Dr. Feldschuh responded to the staff’s invitation on December 20, 2009. The Company has not received a closing notice or other substantive response from the SEC to its December 20, 2009 submission. No conclusions regarding disposition of our cash management policy should be drawn from the lack of a closing notice or other substantive response to our submission to the SEC in response to the Wells Notice. 23 There is a risk that the SEC may attempt to designate Daxor as an Investment Company under the Investment Company Act. 