Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company has incurred substantial operating losses over the past five years. These losses have mainly resulted from steadily increasing expenses for marketing and research and development as the Company attempts to build a market for its products. During this time, the Company has relied on income from investments to partially cover operating losses and provide the necessary funds for expanded research and development and marketing. In the Company’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 there were three customers (hospitals) that accounted for 35% of the Company’s total consolidated sales. Management believes that the loss of any one customer would have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated business for a short period of time. All three of these hospitals have purchased their BVA-100 equipment. The Company has not had any situations in which a hospital, after having purchased a blood volume analyzer, discontinued purchasing Volumex kits. This suggests that, when more hospitals purchase equipment, they will continue with ongoing purchase of Volumex kits. The Company continues to seek new customers, so that any one hospital will represent a smaller percentage of overall sales. 22 At December 31, 2006, approximately 91% of the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of utility stocks whose market value can be sensitive to rising interest rates. There is a risk that in an environment of rising interest rates that the market value of these stocks could decline and the utilities could reduce their dividend payments to compensate for increased interest expense. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund research and development and marketing efforts necessary to build a market for their products. At December 31, 2006, the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of 62 separate stocks. The top six holdings at December 31, 2006 comprised approximately 61% of the value of the investment portfolio. These same six holdings accounted for approximately 51% of the dividend income for the year ended December 31, 2006. A reduction in dividend payments by these companies could have a material effect on the Company’s dividend income. The Company also receives significant income from option sales related to its investment portfolio. The income from options is variable, and less predictable than income from dividends from the Company’s portfolio, which have minor variations. The Company has a significant dependence on a single individual, Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, who is the CEO of the Company. Dr. Feldschuh is the Chief Scientist of the Company and is believed to have more experience with blood volume measurement than any other physician in the United States. He is involved in assisting and advising various physician groups that are conducting research. His scientific knowledge would be difficult to replace. Dr. Feldschuh is also the sole individual responsible for investment decisions with respect to the Company’s investment portfolio. Loss of his part time services in this area would be expected to result in a material reduction in return on the Company’s assets. The Company’s Volumex syringes are filled by an FDA approved radio pharmaceutical manufacturer. This manufacturer is the only one approved by the FDA in the United States to manufacture Volumex for interstate commerce. If this manufacturer were to cease filling the Volumex syringes for Daxor before the Company had a chance to make alternative arrangements, the effect on Daxor’s business could be material. By a letter dated February 8, 2007, the staff of the Northeast Regional Office of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission advised Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Daxor that it is recommending that the Commission bring action against Dr. Feldschuh and Daxor Corporation for violation of Section 7(a) of the Investment Company Act. The company responded to the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2007. The company received a notice from the SEC in November of 2005 about whether or not it should be designated as an investment company. The company responded to this notice on January 13, 2006. The Company has provided extensive documentation directly to the SEC and in this 10-K filing as to why it is primarily an operating company and not primarily an investment company. The company cannot determine whether the Commission will decide to bring an enforcement action against either the Company or its Chief Executive Officer, nor can the Company determine the nature or amount of any legal or other regulatory penalties or sanctions that may be imposed. A resolution was passed at the Board of Directors meeting of March 23, 2007 whereby the Company agreed to indemnify the Chief Executive Officer for any expenses he may incur if the Securities and Exchange Commission brings an enforcement action against him as specified in their letter of February 8, 2007. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company received two separate inquiries from the SEC. One inquiry was in regards to the company’s methods of accounting and reporting for certain income items and related disclosures. The second inquiry questioned whether the company’s activities with respect to its cash management constituted a reason to designate it as an investment company. The accounting changes did not result in any material changes with respect to the company’s total income, assets or revenues, but did result in the shifting of income between quarters in 2004 and 2005. The Company filed an amended 10-K on November 9, 2006, reflecting the expanded reporting and increased disclosure. The Company was in communication with a section of the SEC in Washington which was particularly helpful in providing guidance for increased disclosure to the Company as to how to restate its reports and expand its reporting. The Company has an investment portfolio and a policy of cash management which has been in place for almost 25 years. The company is heavily dependent on income from its investment activities. This investment company issue was raised in 1984/5, when the company had a secondary offering which raised approximately $7 million. The issue was again raised in 1992 with no action taken. In November, 2005, the issue was raised again by the Northeast Regional Office of the SEC when we were informed that the SEC was considering recommending that the Commission bring a civil injunctive action against Daxor, charging that Daxor violated Section 7(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company responded to the SEC on January 13, 2006. 23 There are a number of criteria, including assets and income which could qualify a company as an investment company or what is also termed an inadvertent investment company. Many companies in their research and development phase become an inadvertent investment company because they have little or no operating revenue and most of their income is derived from invested capital. The Investment Company Act, however, recognizes this and provides a number of Safe Harbor exemptions to avoid this designation. These exemptions include “(1) whether the company uses its securities and cash to finance its research and development activities; (2) whether the company has substantial research and development expenses and insignificant investment-related expenses; (3) whether the company invests in securities in a manner that is consistent with the preservation of its assets until needed to finance operations.” If a company satisfies these factors, the remaining major factors of the traditional primary business test -- the company’s historical development, its public representations of policy, and the activities of its officers and directors – are examined: (taken from Section B – Research and Development Companies from Release No. IC-26077; File No. S7-47-02). Under rule 3a-8 as proposed, a company could rely on the rule’s nonexclusive safe harbor if it (a) had research and development expenses that were a substantial percentage of its total expenses for its last four fiscal quarters combined and that equaled at least half of its investment revenues for that period; (b) had investment-related expenses that did not exceed five percent of its total expenses for its last four fiscal quarters combined; (c) made its investments to conserve capital and liquidity until it used the funds in its primary business; and (d) was primarily engaged, directly or through a company or companies that it controls primarily, in a non-investment business, as evidenced by the activities of its officers, directors and employees, its public representation of policies, and its historical development. The company believes it meets these last criteria. One of the Safe Harbor designations is to have 45% of liquid assets in government short term paper such as T-bills. In the case of Daxor, the company has not used the T-bill Safe Harbor designations. In Part II, Section 7A, we have provided a perspective of what would have occurred had we, in 1993, decided to avail ourselves of Safe Harbor provisions and invest the company’s assets in T-bills. The company is highly dependent on income from its investment portfolio. For the past 13 years the company has experienced an operating deficit as it expanded its research and development and marketing efforts. The company has had a firm policy of operating so that it will not find itself in the sudden position of imminent bankruptcy. From time to time the company has received offers of additional financing. Such financing which has been offered has been at very deleterious terms to existing shareholders. The company believes that as blood volume technology gains increasing acceptance, that it will be able to raise additional capital on more reasonable terms. The company also believes that the market for a safer alternative frozen blood banking system is very large but in the initial phases, such a system the company would operate at a significant deficit for an indeterminate time. At the present time the company is focusing its efforts primarily on the blood volume analyzer but will explore opportunities for raising additional capital. The company is currently expanding its expenditure on blood banking To provide additional understanding of what the Company’s financial status would be had we elected to utilize a Safe Harbor investment policy of T-bills, we have prepared a series of graphs derived from information from previous 10K filings. Examination of the graphs makes it apparent that the company would have been on the verge of bankruptcy in 2006 had it instituted a T-bill policy. The Company’s current investment policy does entail higher risks which were understood and approved by the members of the Board of Directors. The results of this investment policy have proven, over time, to be prudent. For 88 consecutive quarters the Company’s investment portfolio has always been above historical cost. If the Company had not followed this course, there is a high likelihood that it would have been bankrupt. We did not provide an analysis of what would have occurred had we done that in prior years from 1985 on, but it is clear from this analysis that the company would have already been bankrupt. The most important issue with respect to whether a company is an investment company is what the company does with its earnings. In the case of Daxor, we utilize all our investment income, plus retained earnings, for research and development and for operation of the company. The company’s investments are managed by the CEO, Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, who spends approximately 15% of his time, 5 – 7.5 hours per week, on investment activities. He is assisted by a single part-time employee. No other member of the company has any role in these decisions. The portfolio has certain parameters which are described elsewhere. The company has, in response to the SEC inquiry, has made a number of changes and increased its disclosures. The company has also provided a formal response in January, 2006 to the SEC on the question why it is an operating company and not an investment company. 