Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company has incurred substantial operating losses over the past five years. These losses have mainly resulted from steadily increasing expenses for marketing and research and development as the Company attempts to build a market for its products. During this time, the Company has relied on income from investments to partially cover operating losses and provide the necessary funds for expanded research and development and marketing. In the Company’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 there were three customers (hospitals) that accounted for 32% of the Company’s total consolidated sales. Management believes that the loss of any one customer would have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated business for a short period of time. All three of these hospitals have purchased their BVA-100 equipment. The Company has not had any situations in which a hospital, after having purchased a blood volume analyzer, discontinued purchasing Volumex kits. This suggests that, when more hospitals purchase equipment, they will continue with ongoing purchase of Volumex kits. The Company continues to seek new customers, so that any one hospital will represent a smaller percentage of overall sales. As disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) implemented a significant policy change affecting the reimbursement for all diagnostic radiopharmaceutical products and contrast agents which was effective as of January 1, 2008. Diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals such as Daxor’s Volumex will not be separately reimbursable by Medicare for outpatient services. At this time, it is unclear if this policy change will also be implemented by private third party health insurance companies. The reimbursement policy for hospital outpatients through December 31, 2007 included payment for both the cost of the procedure to perform a blood volume analysis (BVA) and the radiopharmaceutical (Daxor’s Volumex radiopharmaceutical). CMS’s new policy only includes the reimbursement for the procedure and would require the hospital to absorb the cost of the radiopharmaceutical. There will be an upward adjustment for the procedure code to include some of the costs of the radiopharmaceutical. However, this upward adjustment does not entirely cover the costs associated with the procedure and the radiopharmaceutical. Many medical societies and major manufacturers of radiopharmaceuticals and contrast agents are currently engaged in an aggressive attempt to reverse this ruling. The Company has had similar issues in the past that have negatively impaired revenue from operations. This particular issue may have a similar impact. However, at the present time, the Company is unable to quantify what the effect of this ruling will be on revenue from operations for the year ending December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, approximately 95% of the fair market value of the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of utility stocks whose market price can be sensitive to rising interest rates. There is a risk that in an environment of rising interest rates that the market value of these stocks could decline and the utilities could reduce their dividend payments to compensate for increased interest expense. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund research and development and marketing efforts necessary to build a market for their products. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of 63 separate stocks. The top five holdings at December 31, 2007 comprised approximately 58% of the value of the investment portfolio. These same five holdings accounted for approximately 47% of the dividend income for the year ended December 31, 2007. A reduction in dividend payments by these companies could have a material effect on the Company’s dividend income. The Company also receives significant income from option sales related to its investment portfolio. The income from options is variable, and less predictable than income from dividends from the Company’s portfolio, which have minor variations. The Company has a significant dependence on a single individual, Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, who is the CEO of the Company. Dr. Feldschuh is the Chief Scientist of the Company and is believed to have more experience with blood volume measurement than any other physician in the United States. He is involved in assisting and advising various physician groups that are conducting research. His scientific knowledge would be difficult to replace. Dr. Feldschuh is also the sole individual responsible for investment decisions with respect to the Company’s investment portfolio. Loss of his part time services in this area would be expected to result in a material reduction in return on the Company’s assets. The Company’s Volumex syringes are filled by an FDA approved radio pharmaceutical manufacturer. This manufacturer is the only one approved by the FDA in the United States to manufacture Volumex for interstate commerce. If this manufacturer were to cease filling the Volumex syringes for Daxor before the Company had a chance to make alternative arrangements, the effect on Daxor’s business could be material. As discussed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, by a letter dated February 8, 2007, the staff of the Northeast Regional Office of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission advised Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Daxor that it is recommending that the Commission bring action against Dr. Feldschuh and Daxor Corporation for violation of Section 7(a) of the Investment Company Act. The company responded to the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2007. 22 The company received a notice from the SEC in November of 2005 about whether or not it should be designated as an investment company. The company responded to this notice on January 13, 2006. The Company has provided extensive documentation directly to the SEC and in the 10-K filing for the year ended December 31, 2006 as to why it is primarily an operating company and not primarily an investment company. As disclosed in our Forms 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2007 and June 30, 2007, the Company received a verbal request from the Northeast Regional Office of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in June of 2007 for information pertaining to discussions that had taken place at previous meetings with representatives of the SEC in 1984 and 1992. The Company has complied with that request. The company cannot determine whether the Commission will decide to bring an enforcement action against either the Company or its Chief Executive Officer, nor can the Company determine the nature or amount of any legal or other regulatory penalties or sanctions that may be imposed. A resolution was passed at the Board of Directors meeting of March 23, 2007 whereby the Company agreed to indemnify the Chief Executive Officer for any expenses he may incur if the Securities and Exchange Commission brings an enforcement action against him as specified in their letter of February 8, 2007. 