Item 1A: Risk Factors The Company has incurred substantial operating losses over the past five years. These losses have mainly resulted from steadily increasing expenses for marketing and research and development as the Company attempts to build a market for its products. During this time, the Company has relied on income from investments to partially cover operating losses and provide the necessary funds for expanded research and development and marketing. 16 In the Company’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, the sale of Blood Volume Kits accounted for 57.1% of the Company’s total consolidated sales. There were three customers (hospitals) that accounted for 49.5% of the Company’s sale of Blood Volume Kits. Management believes that the loss of any one customer would have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated business for a short period of time. All three of these hospitals have purchased their BVA-100 equipment. The Company has not had any situations in which a hospital, after having purchased a blood volume analyzer, discontinued purchasing Volumex kits. This suggests that, when more hospitals purchase equipment, they will continue with ongoing purchase of Volumex kits. The Company continues to seek new customers, so that any one hospital will represent a smaller percentage of overall sales. As disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) implemented a significant policy change affecting the reimbursement for all diagnostic radiopharmaceutical products and contrast agents which was effective as of January 1, 2008. Diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals such as Daxor’s Volumex will not be separately reimbursable by Medicare for outpatient services. At this time, it is unclear if this policy change will also be implemented by private third party health insurance companies. The reimbursement policy for hospital outpatients through December 31, 2007 included payment for both the cost of the procedure to perform a blood volume analysis (BVA) and the radiopharmaceutical (Daxor’s Volumex radiopharmaceutical). CMS’s new policy only includes the reimbursement for the procedure and would require the hospital to absorb the cost of the radiopharmaceutical. There will be an upward adjustment for the procedure code to include some of the costs of the radiopharmaceutical. However, this upward adjustment does not entirely cover the costs associated with the procedure and the radiopharmaceutical. In response to Medicare’s change in its reimbursement policy for diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals, Daxor has lobbied CMS both individually and as a member of the Society of Nuclear Medicine’s APC Task Force, which is a select group of representatives from industry and healthcare that represents the more than 16,000 nuclear medicine professionals in the United States. One of the missions of the APC Task Force is to work directly with the CMS in an attempt to amend the current policy limiting the reimbursement of diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals for outpatient diagnostic services. Daxor has also begun to concentrate its marketing and sales effort on inpatient diagnostic services by demonstrating the cost savings associated with the use of the blood volume analysis in the care of critically ill patients. At December 31, 2008, approximately 80% of the fair market value of the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of utility stocks whose market price can be sensitive to rising interest rates. There is a risk that in an environment of rising interest rates that the market value of these stocks could decline and the utilities could reduce their dividend payments to compensate for increased interest expense. This could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to fund research and development and marketing efforts necessary to build a market for their products. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s investment portfolio consisted of 104 separate stocks. The top three holdings at December 31, 2008 comprised approximately 35% of the value of the investment portfolio. These same three holdings accounted for approximately 36% of the dividend income for the year ended December 31, 2007. A reduction in dividend payments by these companies could have a material effect on the Company’s dividend income. The Company also receives significant income from option sales related to its investment portfolio. The income from options is variable, and less predictable than income from dividends from the Company’s portfolio, which have minor variations. The Company has a significant dependence on a single individual, Dr. Joseph Feldschuh, who is the CEO of the Company. Dr. Feldschuh is the Chief Scientist of the Company and is believed to have more experience with blood volume measurement than any other physician in the United States. He is involved in assisting and advising various physician groups that are conducting research. His scientific knowledge would be difficult to replace. Dr. Feldschuh is also the sole individual responsible for investment decisions with respect to the Company’s investment portfolio. Loss of his part time services in this area would be expected to result in a material reduction in return on the Company’s assets. The Company’s Volumex syringes are filled by an FDA approved radio pharmaceutical manufacturer. This manufacturer is the only one approved by the FDA in the United States to manufacture Volumex for interstate commerce. If this manufacturer were to cease filling the Volumex syringes for Daxor before the Company had a chance to make alternative arrangements, the effect on Daxor’s business could be material. 