Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our Company and our business. In addition, you should keep in mind that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks described below are the risks that we currently believe are material to our business. However, additional risks not presently known to us, or risks that we currently believe are not material, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including the information set forth in “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” as well as our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our business prospects, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. If we are adversely affected by such risks, then the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risk Factors Related to Delayed Financial Reporting The delay in reporting our financial statements and related events has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on us. Because of the delay in completing our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, and our restatement of prior period financial statements, we have been unable to timely file our required periodic reports with the SEC. This report is being filed after it was due. We have not filed any Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q since November 2005, we were not able to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, and June 30, 2008. As a result of these events, we have become subject to significant risks and occurrences relating to the following matters, which are described in more detail below: · Revocation of our registration under the Exchange Act; · Limitations on access to public capital markets; 9 Table of Contents · Inability of our common stock to trade on a recognized exchange and potential inability to re-list on a recognized exchange; · Inability of registered broker-dealers to effect trades in our outstanding stock; · Impact of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; · Potential changes in tax liabilities; and · Outcome of civil litigation. We cannot register securities for a public offering or acquisitions until we are current in our financial reporting with the SEC. We also will be unable to repurchase our common stock until we are current in our financial reporting with the SEC. United States securities laws require that we supply current annual and quarterly financial statements in order for us to be able to register securities for a public offering or an acquisition. Our ability to register securities for a public offering or an acquisition will depend upon retaining our registration under the Exchange Act. If we succeed in doing so, we believe we will be able to register securities for public offerings and acquisitions after we become current. However, we will be ineligible to use “short-form” registration that allows us to incorporate by reference our SEC reports into our registration statements or to use shelf registration until we have filed all of our periodic reports in a timely manner for a period of twelve months. This could increase the costs of selling securities publicly and could significantly delay such sales. We will also be unable to engage in other transactions involving our common stock, including a stock repurchase, until we have become current in our financial reporting. We have had material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. As discussed in Item 9A of this report, Controls and Procedures, our management team for financial reporting, under the supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. As of December 31, 2006, they concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and that our internal control over financial reporting were not effective. Although we have made and are continuing to make improvements in our internal controls, if we are unsuccessful in our focused effort to permanently and effectively remediate the weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting over time, it may adversely impact our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in the future accurately and in a timely manner, and may potentially adversely impact our reputation with stakeholders. We are subject to ongoing investigations by the SEC and the United States Department of Justice. In March 2006, we voluntarily disclosed to the SEC certain information related to the independent investigation by the Company’s Audit Committee. Since that time, the SEC has subpoenaed certain documents and voluntarily requested other information in connection with its subsequent investigation related to these events. We are cooperating fully with this investigation. We cannot predict what impact, if any, and the materiality of such impact, if any, the conclusion of this matter may have on our financial statements. In March 2006, the Company voluntarily disclosed to the United States Department of Justice (“DOJ”) certain information related to the independent investigation by the Company’s Audit Committee. Since that time, the DOJ has requested that the Company voluntarily provide documents and other information in connection with its subsequent investigation related to these events. The Company is cooperating fully with this investigation. The Company cannot predict what impact, if any, and the materiality of such impact, if any, the conclusion of this matter may have on our financial statements. Taxing authorities may determine that we owe additional taxes from previous years. As a result of the restatement and delay in our financial reporting, we will likely have to amend previously filed tax returns and reports. Where legal, regulatory or administrative rules require or allow us to amend our previous tax filings, we intend to comply with our obligations under applicable law. To the extent that tax authorities do not accept our conclusions about the tax effects of the restatement, liabilities for taxes could differ from those which have been recorded 10 Table of Contents in our consolidated financial statements. If it is determined that we have additional tax liabilities, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In early 2006, the Internal Revenue Service began an audit of the Company’s income tax returns. This audit is ongoing and covers income tax returns for the years 2003 through 2005. We cannot predict what impact, if any, and the materiality of such impact, if any, the conclusion of these matters may have on our financial statements. Litigation arising in connection with our internal investigation and the restatement of our financial statements could adversely affect our financial condition or operations. As of June 30, 2008, we had one securities class action lawsuit pending against us, former members of our Board of Directors and present and former members of management that relate to the internal investigation and the restatement of our financial statements. The lawsuit and other legal matters in which we have become involved following the announcement of the restatement are described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.” The securities class action lawsuit is currently in the early stages of discovery. The court granted in part the plaintiffs’ motion to certify the class on September 25, 2008. The trial is not scheduled to commence until April 19, 2010. We are not able to predict the outcome of the litigation; however, if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to defend against the allegations raised in the litigation, our business and financial condition would likely be negatively impacted. Among other consequences of a negative outcome of the litigation, we could become obligated to pay damages in an amount, which would adversely affect our financial condition or our operations. In addition to the possibility that we could become subject to damages resulting from the lawsuit described above, the lawsuit and other legal matters could have a disruptive effect upon the operation of our business and consume the time and attention of our senior management. In addition, we are likely to incur substantial expenses in connection with such matters, including substantial fees for attorneys. We maintain insurance that may provide coverage for the potential consequences of a negative outcome of the litigation described above. We have given notice to our insurers of the claims. The insurers have responded by requesting additional information and by reserving their rights under the policies, including the rights to deny coverage under various policy exclusions or to rescind the policies in question as a result of our restatement of our financial statements. There can be no assurance that the insurers will not seek to deny coverage or rescind the policies; that some or all of the claims will not be covered by such policies; or that, even if covered, our ultimate liability will exceed the available insurance. The matters relating to the internal investigation by our Audit Committee and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have required us to incur substantial expenses. As described in the Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, in this Form 10-K, our Audit Committee conducted an internal investigation, which initially focused on certain of our foreign operations, but subsequently expanded to include other matters related to our financial statements and financial reporting. The internal investigation and related activities have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, and has diverted management’s attention from our business. Risk Factors Related to Our Business Changes in laws and regulations regarding network marketing may prohibit or restrict our ability to sell our products in some markets. Network marketing systems are frequently subject to laws and regulations by various government agencies throughout the world. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive practices and ensure that sales are made to consumers of the products and that compensation, recognition, and advancement within the marketing organization are based upon sales of the product. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant penalties. Violations could result from misconduct by an associate, ambiguity in statutes, changes or new laws and regulations affecting our business, and court related decisions. Furthermore, we may be restricted or prohibited from using network marketing plans in some foreign countries. 11 Table of Contents Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive government regulations and could be subject to additional laws and regulations. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sales of each of our major product groups are subject to regulation by numerous, domestic and foreign governmental agencies and authorities. These include the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the USDA, and other state regulatory agencies as well as regulatory agencies in the foreign markets in which we operate. The markets in which we operate have varied regulations which often require us to reformulate products for specific markets, conform product labeling to market regulations, and register or qualify products or obtain necessary approvals with the applicable governmental authorities in order to market our products in these markets. Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of these various governmental agencies and authorities could result in enforcement actions including: cease and desist orders, injunctions, limits on advertising, consumer redress, divestitures of assets, rescission of contracts, or such other relief as may be deemed necessary. Violation of these orders could result in substantial financial or other penalties. Any action against us could materially affect our ability to successfully market our products. In the future, we may be subject to additional laws or regulations administered by the FDA or other federal, state, local, or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal or amendment of laws or regulations which we consider favorable and/or more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We can neither predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, nor what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business. They could, however, require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, imposition of additional record-keeping requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or altered labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all such requirements could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. If we are unable to attract and retain independent Distributors, our business could suffer. We rely on our independent Distributors to market and sell our products through direct marketing techniques, as well as sponsoring other Distributors. Many Distributors sell our product on a part-time basis to friends or associates or use the products for themselves. Our Distributors may terminate their service at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among Distributors from year to year. As a result, we need to continue to retain existing Distributors and recruit additional Distributors in order to maintain and/or increase sales in the future. Several factors affect our ability to attract and retain independent Distributors, including: · any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channels or our competitors; · on-going motivation of our independent Distributors; · public’s perceptions about the value and efficacy of our products; · public’s perceptions and acceptance of network-marketing; · general and economic business conditions; · changes to our compensation arrangements with our independent Distributors; and · competition in recruiting and retaining independent Distributors and or market saturation. We cannot provide any assurance that our independent Distributors will continue to maintain their current levels of productivity or that we will be able to continue to attract and retain Distributors in sufficient numbers to sustain future growth or to maintain present growth levels. 12 Table of Contents An economic slowdown in the markets in which we do business could reduce consumer demand for our products. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, fuel prices, salaries and wages, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general economic slowdown in the markets in which we do business and an uncertain economic outlook may adversely affect consumer spending habits and customer traffic, which may result in lower net sales. A prolonged global economic downturn could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operation, and liquidity. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could lower our revenue and net income. In 2007, we recognized approximately 58.3 percent of our revenue in markets outside the United States in each market’s respective local currency. We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenues and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted-average exchange rates. Because a significant portion of our sales is in foreign countries, exchange rate fluctuations may have a significant effect on our sales and earnings. Our reported net earnings may be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, with earnings generally increasing with a weaker U.S. dollar and decreasing with a strengthening U.S. dollar. As operations expand in countries where foreign currency transactions may be made, our operating results will increasingly be subject to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations and we may not be able to accurately estimate the impact that these changes may have on our future results of operations or financial condition. Availability and integrity of raw materials could become compromised. We depend on outside suppliers for raw materials. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third-party suppliers. We have some agreements for the supply of materials used in the manufacture of our products. We also contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of some of our products. In the event we were to lose any significant suppliers and experience any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, it could result in product shortages or product back orders, which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that suppliers will be able to provide us the raw materials in the quantities we request or at a price we are willing to pay. We are also subject to the delays caused by any interruption in the production of these materials including weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Occasionally, our suppliers have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the delivery of materials or products that do not meet our quality control standards. These quality problems have in the past resulted in, and in the future could result in, stock outages or shortages of our products, and could harm our sales and create inventory write-offs for unusable product. Geopolitical issues and conflicts could adversely affect our business. Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, our business is subject to global political issues and conflicts. If these conflicts or issues escalate, it could harm our foreign operations. In addition, changes and actions by governments in foreign markets could harm our business. Our business is subject to the effects of adverse publicity and negative public perception. Our ability to attract and retain Distributors, as well as their ability to maintain or grow sales in the future, can be affected by either adverse publicity or negative public perception in regards to our industry, our competition, our direct marketing model, the quality or efficacy of nutritional product supplements and ingredients, and our business generally. There can be no assurance we will not be subject to adverse publicity or negative public perception in the future or that it would not have an adverse or material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. 13 Table of Contents Taxation and transfer pricing affect our operations. As a U.S. company doing business in many international markets, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our Company and our subsidiaries. These pricing laws are designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income and deductions are reported by our U.S. and foreign entities and that they are taxed appropriately. Regulators in the United States and in foreign markets closely monitor our corporate structures, intercompany transactions, and how we effectuate intercompany fund transfers. If regulators challenge our corporate structures, transfer pricing methodologies or intercompany transfers, our operations may be harmed, and our effective tax rate may increase. We are eligible to receive foreign tax credits in the United States for certain foreign taxes actually paid abroad. In the event any audits or assessments are concluded adversely to us, we may not be able to offset the consolidated effect of foreign income tax assessments through the use of U.S. foreign tax credits. Because the laws and regulations governing U.S. foreign tax credits are complex and subject to periodic legislative amendment, we cannot be sure that we would in fact be able to take advantage of any foreign tax credits in the future. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of governmental agencies. We collect and remit sales tax in states in which we have determined that nexus exists, which results in the collection of sales tax. Other states may, from time to time, claim we have state related activities constituting a sufficient nexus to require such collection. A successful assertion by one or more states that we should collect sales tax on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales. Despite our best efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws and changes to the interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to these changes, and such changes could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operation, and liquidity. Our business is subject to intellectual property risks. Most of our products are not protected by patents. Restrictive regulations governing the precise labeling of ingredients and percentages for nutritional supplements, the large number of manufacturers, who produce products with many active ingredients in common, and the rapid change and frequent reformulation of products make patent protection impractical. As a result, we enter into confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees in our research and development activities, our independent associates, suppliers, directors, officers, and consultants to help protect our intellectual property, investment in research and development activities and trade secrets. We have also obtained trademarks for the Natures Sunshine Products name and logo as well as the Synergy Worldwide name. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property and trademarks will be successful. Nor can there be any assurance that third-parties will not assert claims against us for infringement of intellectual property rights, which could result in our business being required to obtain licenses for such rights, payment of royalties, or the termination of our manufacturing of infringing products, all of which could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Product liability claims could harm our business. As a manufacturer and distributor of products that are ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that, among other things, the use of our products results in injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. We have historically had a very limited number of product claims or reports from individuals who have asserted that they have suffered adverse consequences as a result of using our products. These matters have historically been settled to our satisfaction and have not resulted in material payments. We have established a wholly owned captive insurance company to provide us with product liability insurance coverage and have accrued an amount that we believe is sufficient to cover probable and reasonable estimable liabilities related to product liability claims based upon our history. There can be no assurance that these estimates will prove to be sufficient nor can there be any assurance that the ultimate outcome of any litigation for product liability will not have a material negative impact on our business prospects, financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. 14 Table of Contents Inventory obsolescence due to finite shelf lives could adversely affect our business. In order to provide a high level of product availability to our independent Distributors and Managers, we maintain a considerable inventory of raw materials in the United States and of finished goods in every country in which we sell our products. Our inventories of both raw materials and finished goods have finite shelf lives. If we overestimate the demand for our products, we could experience significant write-downs on our inventory due to obsolescence. Such write-downs could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. System failures could harm our business. Like many companies, our business is highly dependent upon our information technology infrastructure to effectively and efficiently manage our operations, including order entry, customer billing, accurately tracking purchases and volume incentives, managing accounting, finance, and manufacturing operations. The occurrences of natural disasters or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in our day-to-day business that could adversely affect our business. We have a disaster recovery plan in place to mitigate the risk. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that a long-term failure or impairment of any of our information systems would not adversely affect our ability to conduct our day-to-day business. The Company could incur obligations relating to the activities of our Distributors. We sell our products worldwide to a sales force of independent Distributors who use the products themselves or resell them to other Distributors or consumers. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of locals laws and regulations change and require us to treat our independent Distributors as employees, or if our Distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors, under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for a variety of obligations that are imposed upon employers relating to their employees, including employment related taxes and penalties. Our Distributors also operate in jurisdictions, where local legislation and governmental agencies require us to collect and remit taxes such as sales tax or value added taxes. In addition, there is the possibility that some jurisdictions could seek to hold the Company responsible for false product claims or the negligent actions of an independent Distributor. If the Company were found to be responsible for any of these issues related to our Distributors, it could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Changes in key management. We believe our success depends in part on our ability to retain our executive officers, and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our team. We cannot guarantee the continued service by our key officers. The loss or limitation of any of our executive officers or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. Our business is involved in a market with intense competition. Our business operates in a market with numerous manufacturers, distributors, and retailers of nutritional products. The market for our products is intensely competitive. Many of our competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial resources, and better name recognition than we do. We also rely on our independent Distributors to market and sell our products through direct marketing techniques, as well as sponsoring other Distributors. Our ability to compete with other direct marketing companies depends greatly on our ability in attracting and retaining our Distributors. In addition, we currently do not have significant patent or other proprietary protection, and our competitors may introduce products with the same or similar ingredients that we use in our products. As a result, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors’ products, and competing products entering the nutritional market. There can be no assurance that our future operations would not be harmed as a result of changing market conditions and future competition. 15 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On March 23, 2006, we received a letter from the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC requesting more information on the nature of the internal control weaknesses and potential violations of law disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on March 20, 2006, as well as the potential impact on our financial statements. These staff comments are not yet resolved, but we have responded to these staff comments with a letter to be filed concurrently with this Report. 