Item 1A. Risk Factors This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Statements that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements about our future that are not statements of historical fact. Most of these statements are found in this report within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. In some cases, you can identify these statements by terminology such as “may,” “should,” “could,” “expects,” “seek to,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “intends,” “predicts,” “projects,” “potential” or “continue” or the negative of such terms and other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions, and in evaluating them, you should carefully consider the information above, as well as the risks outlined below. Actual performance or results may differ materially and adversely. 4 Table of Contents Changes in Laws, Regulations and Accounting Standards Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including those promulgated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, the United States Department of Agriculture, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and numerous related regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Changes in federal, state or local laws, or the interpretations of such laws and regulations may negatively impact our financial results or our ability to market our products. Loss of Rights to Any of Our Licensed Brands Could Adversely Affect Our Sales and Profits We sell certain of our products under licensed brand names such as LAND O’LAKES and others. In some cases, we have invested significant capital in product development and marketing and advertising related to these licensed brands. Should our rights to manufacture and sell products under any of these names be terminated for any reason, our financial performance and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Decisions Made by Dean Foods Company Could Affect Our Performance We are a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dean Foods Company. Our operations are part of the larger Dairy Group segment of Dean Foods Company. Dean Foods Company’s management makes decisions regarding allocation of capital resources, facility closings and reorganizations, customer contracts, purchases of new business and sales of our assets. Dean Foods Company has Substantial Debt and Other Financial Obligations that We Guarantee Certain of Dean Foods Company’s subsidiaries, including us, guarantee Dean Foods Company’s indebtedness under its senior credit facility. We have pledged substantially all of our assets (other than our real property and our ownership interests in our subsidiaries) as security for our guaranty. Dean Foods Company’s senior credit facility provides for a $1.5 billion revolving credit facility and a $1.5 billion term loan. We may provide additional guarantees of financial obligations in the future. Dean Foods Company’s ability to make scheduled payments on its debt and other financial obligations depends on its financial and operating performance. Dean Foods Company’s financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond its control. If Dean Foods Company does not comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants under its senior credit facility, it may default under such facility. Upon default, Dean Foods Company’s lenders could accelerate the indebtedness under the facility, foreclose against its collateral or seek other remedies, which would jeopardize our ability to continue our current operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 5 Table of Contents 