Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks in evaluating our Company and our business. The risks described below are the risks that we currently believe are material to our business. However, additional risks not presently known to us, or risks that we currently believe are not material, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this report, including the information set forth in “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” as well as our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our business prospects, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. If we are adversely affected by such risks, then the trading price of our common stock could decline. Changes in laws and regulations regarding network marketing may prohibit or restrict our ability to sell our products in some markets. Network marketing systems are frequently subject to laws and regulations by various government agencies throughout the world. These laws and regulations are generally intended to prevent fraudulent or deceptive practices and ensure that sales are made to consumers of the products and that compensation, recognition, and advancement within the marketing organization are based upon sales of the product. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant penalties. Violations could result from misconduct by an associate, ambiguity in statutes, changes or new laws and regulations affecting our business, and court related decisions. Furthermore, we may be restricted or prohibited from using network marketing plans in some foreign countries. Our products and manufacturing activities are subject to extensive government regulations and could be subject to additional laws and regulations. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution and sales of each of our major product groups are subject to regulation by numerous domestic and foreign governmental agencies and authorities. These include the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the USDA, and state regulatory agencies as well as regulatory agencies in the foreign markets in which we operate. The markets in which we operate have varied regulations which often require us to reformulate products for specific markets, conform product labeling to market regulations, and register or qualify products or obtain necessary approvals with the applicable governmental authorities in order to market our products in these markets. Failure to comply with the regulatory requirements of these various governmental agencies and authorities could result in enforcement actions including: cease and desist orders, injunctions, limits on advertising, consumer redress, divestitures of assets, rescission of contracts, or such other relief as may be deemed necessary. Violation of these orders could result in substantial financial or other penalties. Any action against us could materially affect our ability to successfully market our products. In the future, we may be subject to additional laws or regulations administered by the FDA or other federal, state, local, or foreign regulatory authorities, the repeal or amendment of laws or regulations which we consider favorable and/or more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We can neither predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, interpretations, or applications, nor what effect additional governmental regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, would have on our business. They could, however, require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, imposition of additional record-keeping requirements, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or altered labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all such requirements could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. If we are unable to attract and retain independent Distributors, our business could suffer. We rely on our independent Distributors to market and sell our products through direct marketing techniques, as well as sponsoring other Distributors. Many Distributors sell our products on a part-time basis to friends or associates or use the products for themselves. Our Distributors may terminate their service at any time, and, like most direct selling companies, we experience high turnover among Distributors from year to year. Each Distributor is required to renew his or her distributorship on a yearly basis; our experience indicates that, on average, approximately 45 percent of our Distributors renew annually. As a result, we need to continue to retain existing Distributors and recruit additional Distributors in order to maintain and/or increase sales in the future. Several factors affect our ability to attract and retain independent Distributors, including: · any adverse publicity regarding us, our products, our distribution channels or our competitors; · on-going motivation of our independent Distributors; · public’s perceptions about the value and efficacy of our products; · public’s perceptions and acceptance of network-marketing; 9 Table of Contents · general and economic business conditions; · changes to our compensation arrangements with our independent Distributors; and · competition in recruiting and retaining independent Distributors and or market saturation. We cannot provide any assurance that our independent Distributors will continue to maintain their current levels of productivity or that we will be able to continue to attract and retain Distributors in sufficient numbers to sustain future growth or to maintain present growth levels. The economic slowdown in the markets in which we do business has reduced consumer demand for our products. Consumer spending habits, including spending for our products, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, fuel prices, salaries and wages, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. For instance, in the last fiscal quarter of 2008, we began to see changes in our consumer spending habits in the United States, Russia, Asian and Latin American markets due to the current general economic slowdown, which has resulted in lower net sales of our products. The current general economic slowdown in the markets in which we do business and an uncertain economic outlook may continue to adversely affect consumer spending habits and customer traffic, which may result in lower net sales of our products. A prolonged global economic downturn could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operation, or cash flows. Currency exchange rate fluctuations have lowered our revenue and net income. In 2009, we recognized approximately 55.0 percent of our revenue in markets outside the United States, of which 36.2 percent was recognized in each market’s respective local currency (other than the U.S. dollar). We purchase inventory primarily in the United States in U.S. dollars. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenues and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using weighted-average exchange rates. Because a significant portion of our sales is in foreign countries, exchange rate fluctuations may have a significant effect on our sales and earnings. Our reported net earnings have in the past and are likely to continue to be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, with earnings generally increasing with a weaker U.S. dollar and decreasing with a strengthening U.S. dollar. These fluctuations had a generally negative effect on our revenue in 2009 as compared to 2008 beginning in the fourth quarter 2008. During the fourth quarter for the year ended December 31, 2008, we began to see a decline in our global net sales of our products of approximately 4.7 percent as a result of changes in global economic conditions in the markets in which our business segments operate. The decline was primarily driven by strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most major currencies of the markets in which we operate. During 2009, we have experienced a continuing decline in our global net sales as a result of the U.S. dollar strengthening against most major currencies, which is a reversal of the trend for prior years. For instance, the U.S. dollar increased approximately 26.2 percent from the end of the third quarter of 2008 to the end of the fourth quarter 2008 against the Mexican peso and the weighted average exchange rate used to translate revenues and expenses from Mexico has also weakened 22.7 percent for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to 2008 as a result of the U.S. dollar strengthening against the Mexican peso. However, during 2009, we began to see some stabilization in the average exchange rates used to translate revenues and expenses over the course of the year for most of the markets in which we operate. If exchange rates were to change in future periods relative to those experienced during the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009, it could have a significant impact on our revenue in future periods. As operations expand in countries where foreign currency transactions may be made, our operating results will increasingly be subject to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations and we may not be able to accurately estimate the impact that these changes may have on our future results of operations or financial condition. Some of the markets in which we operate may become highly inflationary. Inflation is another risk associated with our international operations. For example, as of January 1, 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). As a result, beginning January 1, 2010, the U.S. dollar will be the functional currency for our subsidiaries in Venezuela. Going forward, currency remeasurement adjustments for this subsidiary’s financial statements and other transactional foreign exchange gains and losses will be reflected in earnings, which could result in volatility within our earnings, rather than as a component of comprehensive income within shareholders’ equity. Some of the markets in which we operate have currency controls in place which may restrict the repatriation of cash. The possibility that foreign governments may impose currency remittance restrictions is another risk faced by our international operations. Due to the possibility of government restrictions on transfers of cash out of the country and control of exchange rates, we 10 Table of Contents may not be able to repatriate cash at exchange rates beneficial to the Company, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For example, as of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $2.0 million in cash denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes. Currency restrictions enacted by the government of Venezuela require approval from the government’s currency control organization for our subsidiary in Venezuela to obtain U.S. dollars at an official exchange rate to pay for imported products or to repatriate dividends back to the Company. While to date we have been able to receive approval from the government of Venezuela to obtain U.S. dollars at the official exchange rate, no assurances can be given that we will continue to receive such approval, or that other markets in which we operate will enact similar restrictions. Availability and integrity of raw materials could become compromised. We depend on outside suppliers for raw materials. We acquire all of our raw materials for the manufacture of our products from third-party suppliers. We have many agreements for the supply of materials used in the manufacture of our products in order to hedge against shortages or potential spikes in material costs. We also contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers for the production of some of our products. In the event we were to lose any significant suppliers and experience any difficulties in finding or transitioning to alternative suppliers, it could result in product shortages or product back orders, which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that suppliers will be able to provide us the raw materials in the quantities and at the appropriate level of quality we request or at a price we are willing to pay. We are also subject to the delays caused by any interruption in the production of these materials including weather, crop conditions, climate change, transportation interruptions, and natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Occasionally, our suppliers have experienced production difficulties with respect to our products, including the delivery of materials or products that do not meet our quality control standards. These quality problems have in the past resulted in, and in the future could result in, stock outages or shortages of our products, and could harm our sales and create inventory write-offs for unusable product. Geopolitical issues and conflicts could adversely affect our business. Because a substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States, our business is subject to global political issues and conflicts. If these conflicts or issues escalate, it could harm our foreign operations. In addition, changes and actions by governments in foreign markets could harm our business. Our business is subject to the effects of adverse publicity and negative public perception. Our ability to attract and retain Distributors, as well as their ability to maintain or grow sales in the future, can be affected by either adverse publicity or negative public perception in regards to our industry, our competition, our direct marketing model, the quality or efficacy of nutritional product supplements and ingredients, and our business generally. There can be no assurance we will not be subject to adverse publicity or negative public perception in the future or that it would not have an adverse or material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Taxation and transfer pricing affect our operations. As a U.S. company doing business in many international markets, we are subject to foreign tax and intercompany pricing laws, including those relating to the flow of funds between our parent Company and our subsidiaries. These pricing laws are designed to ensure that appropriate levels of income and deductions are reported by our U.S. and foreign entities and that they are taxed appropriately. Regulators in the United States and in foreign markets closely monitor our corporate structures, intercompany transactions, and how we effectuate intercompany fund transfers. If regulators challenge our corporate structures, transfer pricing methodologies or intercompany transfers, our operations may be harmed, and our effective tax rate may increase. We are eligible to receive foreign tax credits in the United States for certain foreign taxes actually paid abroad. In the event any audits or assessments are concluded adversely to us, we may not be able to offset the consolidated effect of foreign income tax assessments through the use of U.S. foreign tax credits. Because the laws and regulations governing U.S. foreign tax credits are complex and subject to periodic legislative amendment, we cannot be sure that we would in fact be able to take advantage of any foreign tax credits in the future. The various customs, exchange control and transfer pricing laws are continually changing and are subject to the interpretation of governmental agencies. In early 2006, the Internal Revenue Service began an audit of the Company’s income tax returns. This audit is ongoing and covers income tax returns for the years 2003 through 2008. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings — Audit of U.S. Federal Tax Return 2003-2008”. We cannot predict what impact, if any, and the materiality of such impact, if any, the conclusion of these matters may have on our financial statements. 11 Table of Contents We collect and remit sales tax in states in which we have determined that nexus exists. Other states may, from time to time, claim we have state-related activities constituting a sufficient nexus to require such collection. Despite our best efforts to be aware of and comply with such laws and changes to the interpretations thereof, there is a risk that we may not continue to operate in compliance with such laws. We may need to adjust our operating procedures in response to these changes, and such changes could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operation, or cash flows. Our business is subject to intellectual property risks. Most of our products are not protected by patents. Restrictive regulations governing the precise labeling of ingredients and percentages for nutritional supplements, the large number of manufacturers who produce products with many active ingredients in common, and the rapid change and frequent reformulation of products make patent protection impractical. As a result, we enter into confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees in our research and development activities, our independent associates, suppliers, directors, officers, and consultants to help protect our intellectual property, investment in research and development activities and trade secrets. We have also obtained trademarks for the Nature’s Sunshine Products name and logo as well as the Synergy Worldwide name. There can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property and trademarks will be successful. Nor can there be any assurance that third parties will not assert claims against us for infringement of intellectual property rights, which could result in our business being required to obtain licenses for such rights, payment of royalties, or the termination of our manufacturing of infringing products, all of which could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Product liability claims could harm our business. As a manufacturer and distributor of products that are ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that, among other things, the use of our products results in alleged injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination and/or other causes. We have historically had a very limited number of product claims or reports from individuals who have asserted that they have suffered adverse consequences as a result of using our products. We have established a wholly-owned captive insurance company to provide us with product liability insurance coverage and have accrued an amount that we believe is sufficient to cover probable and reasonably estimable liabilities related to product liability claims based upon our history. There can be no assurance that these estimates will prove to be sufficient nor can there be any assurance that the ultimate outcome of any litigation for product liability will not have a material negative impact on our business prospects, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Inventory obsolescence due to finite shelf lives could adversely affect our business. In order to provide a high level of product availability to our independent Distributors and Managers, we maintain a considerable inventory of raw materials in the United States and of finished goods in most countries in which we sell our products. Our inventories of both raw materials and finished goods have finite shelf lives. If we overestimate the demand for our products, we could experience significant write-downs on our inventory due to obsolescence. Such write-downs could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. System failures could harm our business. Like many companies, our business is highly dependent upon our information technology infrastructure to effectively and efficiently manage our operations, including order entry, customer billing, accurately tracking purchases and volume incentives, and managing accounting, finance, and manufacturing operations. The occurrences of natural disasters or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions in our day-to-day business that could adversely affect our business. We have a disaster recovery plan in place to mitigate the risk. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that a long-term failure or impairment of any of our information systems would not adversely affect our ability to conduct our day-to-day business. The Company could incur obligations relating to the activities of our Distributors. We sell our products worldwide to a sales force of independent Distributors who use the products themselves or resell them to other independent Distributors or consumers. In the event that local laws and regulations or the interpretation of locals laws and regulations change and require us to treat our independent Distributors as employees, or if our Distributors are deemed by local regulatory authorities in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate to be our employees rather than independent contractors, under existing laws and interpretations, we may be held responsible for a variety of obligations that are imposed upon employers relating to their employees, including employment related taxes and penalties. Our Distributors also operate in jurisdictions where 12 Table of Contents local legislation and governmental agencies require us to collect and remit taxes such as sales tax or value-added taxes. In addition, there is the possibility that some jurisdictions could seek to hold the Company responsible for false product claims or the negligent actions of an independent Distributor. However, to date the Company has had no such occurrences. In addition, we believe we have strong legal defenses if such a claim were to arise. If the Company were found to be responsible for any of these issues related to our Distributors, it could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Changes in key management could materially adversely affect the Company. We believe our success depends in part on our ability to retain our executive officers, and to continue to attract additional qualified individuals to our team. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our named executive officers, which we believe achieves two important goals crucial to our long-term financial success: the long-term retention of our senior executives and their commitment to the attainment of our strategic objectives. However, we cannot guarantee the continued service by our key officers. The loss or limitation of any of our executive officers or the inability to attract additional qualified management personnel could have a material negative impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We do not carry key man insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers. Our business is involved in an industry with intense competition. Our business operates in an industry with numerous manufacturers, distributors, and retailers of nutritional products. The market for our products is intensely competitive. Many of our competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial resources and have better name recognition than we do. We also rely on our independent Distributors to market and sell our products through direct marketing techniques, as well as sponsoring other Distributors. Our ability to compete with other direct marketing companies depends greatly on our ability in attracting and retaining our Distributors. In addition, we currently do not have significant patent or other proprietary protection, and our competitors may introduce products with the same or similar ingredients that we use in our products. As a result, we may have difficulty differentiating our products from our competitors’ products, and competing products entering the nutritional market. There can be no assurance that our future operations would not be harmed as a result of changing market conditions and future competition. We have had material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. As discussed in Item 9A of this report, “Controls and Procedures,” our management team for financial reporting, under the supervision and with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our internal controls. Management concluded that the Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, because of the continued existence of material weakness related to accounting for taxes. A “material weakness” is defined under auditing rules as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company’s internal controls. The Company has taken various steps to remediate this remaining material weakness. With respect to our accounting for taxes, we hired a new Tax Director during 2008 and have utilized various outsourced service providers for tax consulting services to assist in our accounting for income taxes. Although we have made and are continuing to make improvements in our internal controls, if we are unsuccessful in our focused effort to effectively remediate the weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting over time, it may adversely impact our ability to report our financial condition and results of operations in the future accurately and in a timely manner, and may adversely impact our reputation with stakeholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 