ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This report contains statements that may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe-harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements other than historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this report. These forward-looking statement include statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objective, future performance and business, including statement preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believes,” “expects,” or “anticipates,” references to estimates or similar expressions. Future filings by us with the Securities Exchange Commission, and future statements other than historical facts contained in written material, press releases and oral statements issued by us, or on our behalf, may also constitute forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements contained in this report or which may be contained in future statements made for or on our behalf are based upon information available at the time the statement is made and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in such forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause actual results to differ from the results discussed above include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows, and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we have significant loan losses, we would need to further increase our Allowance for Loan Losses and our earnings would decrease; impairment charges on letters of credit could have similar effects. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. We may also be required to make payments on letters of credit, which we have issued on behalf of our customers. In recent periods, we have experienced problems with some lending and letter of credit arrangements which have affected our results. We may continue to experience losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Material additions to our allowance or charges related to letters of credit also would materially decrease our net income, and the charge-off of loans may lead us to increase the allowance. We must make assumptions and judgments about the quality and collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our operations are geographically limited and significantly concentrated in the tourism industry, which makes us more at risk for downturns in those areas. Most of our operations, business and customer base are in Northeastern Wisconsin, particularly in Door and Brown Counties. As a result of this geographical concentration, we are more at risk in the event of downturns or other factors that affect the local economy or decrease demand for our services than if our operations were conducted over a wider area. Other local factors, such as natural disasters and the local regulatory climate, could also significantly affect our results because of our lack of geographical diversity. In addition, a significant percentage of our customer base is in the tourism industry, particularly lodging and restaurants, especially in our Door County market. Many of our other customers depend indirectly on the tourism industry. This concentration in a single industry could cause any downturn or other issues affecting local tourism to reduce the demand for our services, increase problem loans and thus disproportionately affect our results. A significant portion of our lending is concentrated in the commercial real estate sector, which makes us more at risk for downturns in those areas. Approximately 56.7% of our loans are concentrated in commercial real estate lending. At year-end 2006, $108.4 million represented loans for purposes of rental properties and $67.9 million for development loans. A downturn in the economy on the pricing of these development type properties could affect the values of these properties, increase the potential for problem loans and thus have a direct impact on our financial results. 7 Table of Contents The banking industry is a highly regulated environment, which could increase our cost structure or have other negative impacts on our operations. We are highly regulated by both federal and state regulatory authorities. Regulation includes, among other things, capital and reserve requirements, permissible investments and lines of business, dividend limitations, limitations on products and services offered, loan limits, geographical limits, consumer credit regulations, community reinvestment requirements and restrictions on transactions with affiliated parties. The system of supervision and regulation applicable to us establishes a comprehensive framework for our respective operations and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC’s deposit funds, our depositors and the public, rather than our shareholders. Any change in government regulation may have a material adverse effect on our business. An increasing interest rate environment could affect our results and our equity. In recent periods, the Federal Reserve Board has increased the Federal Funds target rate multiple times and additional increases are possible. Increases to the middle- and long-term interest rates which we are able to charge have not been commensurate with the short-term interest rate moves by the Federal Reserve, resulting in a flattened yield curve. The flattening of the yield curve, together with competitive market pressures, has resulted in a compressed interest margin by limiting our ability to obtain reasonable returns on middle- and long-term earning assets. We expect this factor to continue to have an effect on the growth in net interest margin. In turn, net income and return on equity would be adversely affected. We hold $188.3 million of securities available-for-sale at December 31, 2006. We must carry these securities at fair value on our balance sheet under generally accepted accounting principles, and unrealized gains or losses on those securities are one component of stockholders’ equity. When market interest rates increase, the fair value of our securities available-for-sale generally decreases, which results in a corresponding decrease in equity. Competition may affect our results. We face strong competition in originating loans, in seeking deposits and in offering our other services. We must compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, trust companies, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Our market area is also served by several commercial banks and savings institutions that are substantially larger than us in terms of deposits and loans. This competitive climate can make it more difficult to establish and retain relationships with customers and can lower the rates we are able to charge on loans, increase the rates we must offer on deposits, and affect our charges for other services. Those factors can in turn affect our results and profitability. Customers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could result in a loss of income to us. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. We rely on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties, and inaccurate or incomplete information could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we may rely on information provided to us by customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of customers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. Our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted to the extent we rely on financial statements that do not comply with generally accepted accounting principles or that are materially misleading. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or customer information, whether through a breach of our computer system or otherwise, could severely harm our business. 8 Table of Contents As part of our financial and data processing products and services, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or our vendors, could severely damage its reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and harm our business. Wisconsin tax developments could reduce our earnings. Like many Wisconsin financial institutions, our bank has a subsidiary in Nevada which holds and manages investment and other earning assets; the income on these assets has not been subject to Wisconsin tax. The Wisconsin Department of Revenue has instituted an audit program specifically aimed at out-of-state subsidiaries, although it has not audited our subsidiary. Although we believe that we have complied with requirements previously established by the Department, depending upon the terms and circumstances, an adverse resolution of these matters could result in additional Wisconsin tax obligations for prior periods and/or higher Wisconsin taxes going forward, with a negative impact on our earnings. We also may incur additional costs in the future to address state tax issues. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 