Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Fluctuations in financial performance could harm our long-term growth strategy The Company has experienced and may, in the future, continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. Factors that may cause operating results to vary include, but are not limited to, changing technology, new product transitions, delays in new product introductions, competition, shortages of system components, changes in the mix of products and services sold and timing of investments in additional personnel, facilities and research and development. As a result of the impact of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of the future performance in any particular fiscal period. We are somewhat limited in our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Therefore, the Company’s business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if increased revenues are not achieved. If we fail to manage or anticipate our future growth effectively our business will suffer The Company’s sales and dependence on major customers For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, approximately 16% of our revenues were accounted for by sales to five commercial customers. This is similar to the prior year when five customers represented 21% of our revenues. In the event of a reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more significant customers or if one or more significant customers selects products from one of our competitors for inclusion in future product 8 generations, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. The loss of one or more of our current significant customers could materially and adversely affect business, financial condition and operating results. Any failure to remain competitive would harm Optelecom-NKF’s operating results. The markets in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technologies. The Company faces competition from established domestic and international competitors and the threat of future competition from new and emerging companies. To remain competitive in both the current and future business climates, the Company believes it must maintain a substantial commitment to research and development. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing such products or producing enhancements that meet these changing demands, or that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our inability to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner or our failure to achieve market acceptance of a new product could have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition and operating results and our efforts to remain competitive. Competition We face intense and increasing competition from a large number of competitors, some of which are larger than the Company and have larger product development, research and sales staffs. We believe that the products developed in 2004 and 2005 and the products currently being developed will position us to compete effectively through 2006 and well into 2007. Although Optelecom and NKF expect that the merger will result in benefits, those benefits may not be realized Achieving the maximum benefits of our merger with NKF will depend in part on the integration of technology, operations and personnel. The continued integration of Optelecom and NKF will be a complex, time consuming and expensive process and may disrupt the Company’s business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • Coordinating manufacturing operations in a rapid and efficient manner; • Combining product offerings and product lines effectively and quickly; • Integrating sales efforts so that customers can do business easily with the combined company; • Bringing together the companies’ marketing efforts so that the industry receives useful information about the merger; • Coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies; and • Persuading employees that Optelecoms’s and NKF’s business cultures are compatible. It is not certain that Optelecom and NKF can be successfully integrated in a timely manner or at all or that any of the anticipated benefits will be realized. Failure to do so could materially harm the business and operating results of the combined company. Also, neither Optelecom nor NKF can assure you that the growth rate of the combined company will equal the historical growth rate experienced by Optelecom and NKF. 9 The recent acquisition of NKF also increased the Company’s risks relating to foreign currency risk exposure, increased financing costs as a result of increased borrowings to effectuate the transaction and increased debt. While management believes that the transaction will be accretive, if it is not, we may be required to pursue equity financing to refinance the acquisition debt and enter into foreign currency hedges to reduce the exchange rate risk. Management believes that the individuals that it retained at NKF will continue the successful operations in the future and continue the effective management of NKF. Optelecom borrowed $23.1 million of senior and subordinated notes in connection with its acquisition of NKF. In connection with the acquisition of NKF, the Company borrowed $23.1 million of senior and subordinated notes. The issuance of these notes substantially increased its principal payment obligations and it may not have enough cash to repay the notes when due. By incurring new indebtedness, the related risks that it now faces could intensify. The degree to which it is leveraged could materially and adversely affect its ability to successfully obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make it more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. Future Capital Needs; Uncertainty Of Additional Funding We believe that our existing capital resources, including an existing $5,000,000 bank line-of-credit and future operating cash flows, will generate the funds needed for our long-term cash requirements. If our growth rate should exceed expectations, or if we should fail to generate the anticipated operating cash flows, we would be required to seek additional funding. In those circumstances, the Company would look to increase its line of credit and/or pursue equity financing. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. If issuing equity securities raises additional funds, further dilution to existing stockholders will result. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate product research and development and overhead costs. If the Company fails to attract and retain key personnel, its business could suffer. The Company’s future depends, in part, on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. It may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with its existing compensation and salary structure. Its future also depends on the continued contributions of its executive management team and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of service from these or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. On March 8, 2005, the Company essentially doubled in size. This event and the Company’s implementation of a new global growth strategy lead to some restructuring within the organization. The Company’s CFO was promoted to Executive Vice President and COO for North American operations and in addition to his new responsibilities will continue to serve as CFO until a replacement is found. The Company also hired a new Vice President of Sales and Marketing. While this restructuring will allow the Company to better align responsibilities and further expand and strengthen the management team, the Company faces general business risks associated with any transition in roles and responsibilities. Our common stock price is volatile, we have never paid dividends and our stock is subject to future dilution. Our Common Stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. The securities markets have from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that were unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded technology companies have in the past been, and can in the future be expected to be, especially volatile. Announcements of technological innovations or new products of the Company or our competitors, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding products under development by the Company or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries, and economic and other external factors, as well as 10 period-to-period fluctuations in our operating and product development results, may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. We have not paid any cash dividends since our inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, dilution will occur upon the exercise of outstanding stock options. Additionally, further dilution could be significant if we decide to complete a future equity financing if we experience additional requirements to fund operations. The Company faces risks related to its international operations and revenue. The Company’s customers are located throughout the world. In addition, with the acquisition of NKF, it has significant offshore operations, including manufacturing, sales and customer support operations. Its operations outside North America are primarily located in the Netherlands. The Company’s international presence exposes it to certain risks, including the following: • its ability to comply with customs, import/export and other trade compliance regulations of the countries in which it does business, together with any unexpected changes in such regulations; • difficulties in establishing and enforcing its intellectual property rights; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets, particularly in those markets in which it maintains manufacturing and research facilities; • difficulties in staffing and management; • language and cultural barriers; • seasonal reductions in business activities in the countries where its international customers are located; • integration of foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • currency fluctuations; and • potential adverse tax consequences. Net revenue from customers outside North America accounted for 56%, 24%, and 15% of the Company’s total net revenue in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The Company expects that revenue from customers outside North America will continue to account for a significant portion of its total net revenue. Lower sales levels that typically occur during the summer months in Europe and some other overseas markets may materially and adversely affect its business. In addition, sales of many of its customers depend on international sales and consequently further expose it to the risks associated with such international sales. If the Company fails to manage its exposure to worldwide financial markets successfully, its operating results could suffer. The Company is exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. It does not use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. A substantial portion of the Company’s net revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, some of these activities are conducted in other currencies, primarily European currencies. A significant change in interest rates or an unfavorable movement in the European currencies compared to the U.S. Dollar would impact the Company’s operations. 11 The Company faces risk from the potential impact of being classified as an “Accelerated Filer”. The Company is currently classified by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) as a non-accelerated filer and therefore the mandatory compliance date for the management report on internal control over financial reporting requirement and the related registered public accounting firm report requirement under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was to be December 31, 2007. A non-accelerated filer is defined by the Commission as a public company with public float less than $75 million. It is likely that on June 30, 2006, the Company’s measurement date for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, the Company will exceed the $75 million mark and thus be classified as an accelerated filer. This reclassification will accelerate the mandatory compliance date to December 31, 2006, and redirect some of management’s focus and funding for the current year. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 