Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Fluctuations in financial performance could harm our long-term growth strategy. We have experienced and may continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. Factors that may cause operating results to vary include, but are not limited to, changing technology, new product transitions, delays in new product introductions, competition, shortages of system components, changes in the mix of products and services sold, economic factors, and timing of planned expenditures in additional personnel, facilities and research and development. The current economic environment is marked by significant instability and continued economic weakness is expected for the near future. As a result of the impact of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of the future performance in any particular fiscal period. We are somewhat limited in our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Therefore, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if increased revenues are not achieved. If we fail to manage or anticipate future growth effectively our business will suffer. 8 Table of Contents The loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, approximately 29% of our revenues were accounted for by sales to five commercial customers. This is similar to the prior year when five customers represented 23% of our revenues. In the event of a reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more significant customers or if one or more significant customers selects products from one of our competitors for inclusion in future projects, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. The loss of one or more of our current significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We face significant competition for our products and any failure to remain competitive would harm our operating results. The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technologies. We face significant competition from a large number of domestic and international competitors, some of which are larger and have larger product development, research and sales staffs. To remain competitive in both the current and future business climates, we believe we must maintain a substantial commitment to research and development. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing such products or producing enhancements that meet these changing demands, or that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our inability to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner or our failure to achieve market acceptance of new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and our efforts to remain competitive. We continue to integrate our global management structure. In March 2007, we updated our corporate structure to globally integrate the management functions into one group to address the continually changing technology trends within the industry. The Company was previously established as individually and separately-managed units at our U.S. global headquarters and European operating facilities. We continue the integration process, including product development, manufacturing, sales processes, finance and information technology. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: •Coordinating manufacturing operations in a rapid and efficient manner; •Combining product offerings and product lines effectively and quickly; •Integrating sales efforts so that customers can do business easily with the combined company; •Bringing together the companies' marketing efforts so that the industry receives useful information about our products and services; •Coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies; and •Ensuring employee compatibility in diverse global offices and markets. 9 Table of Contents Also, we cannot assure you that the growth rate of the Company will equal the historical growth rates. Optelecom borrowed $23.1 million of senior and subordinated notes in connection with its acquisition of NKF. In connection with the acquisition of NKF, we borrowed $23.1 million of senior and subordinated notes. The issuance of these notes substantially increased our principal payment obligations and we may not have enough cash to repay the notes when due. By incurring indebtedness, the related risks that we face intensify. The degree to which we are leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. The current economic environment is marked by limited availability of credit in the business sector and we may be required to pursue equity or other financing to refinance the acquisition debt on less than favorable terms. At December 31, 2008, we have an outstanding balance of $15.5 million on this debt. Final maturity of the senior and subordinated notes is September 2009 and March 2010, respectively. Future Capital Needs; Uncertainty of Additional Funding. We believe that our current capital resources, including an existing bank line-of-credit and future operating cash flows, will generate the funds needed for our long-term cash requirements. However, if our growth rate does not meet expectations, or if we should fail to generate the anticipated operating cash flows, we would be required to seek additional funding. In those circumstances, we would look to increase our line of credit and/or pursue equity financing. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. If issuing equity securities raises additional funds, further dilution to existing stockholders will result. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate product development, sales and marketing, and overhead costs. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to hire and retain personnel at levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key management, and technical personnel, many of whom could be difficult to replace. The loss of service from these or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our common stock price is volatile, we have never paid dividends and our stock is subject to future dilution. Our Common Stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. The securities markets have from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that were unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded technology companies have in the past been, and may in the future be, especially volatile. Announcements of technological innovations or new products of the Company or our competitors, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding products under development by the Company or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our operating and product development results, may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. We have not paid any cash dividends since our inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, dilution will occur upon the exercise of outstanding 10 Table of Contents stock options or issuance of additional stock. Further dilution could be significant if we experience additional requirements to fund operations and decide to complete a future equity financing. We face a number of risks related to the ongoing financial crisis and severe tightening in the global credit markets. The ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in the worldwide credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in credit and equity markets. This financial crisis could impact the Company's business in a number of ways, including: •Potential Deferment or Cancellation of Purchases and Orders by Customers: Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions may cause businesses and governments to defer or cancel purchases in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining consumer confidence. If future demand for our products declines, it will adversely impact our financial results. •Customers' Inability to Obtain Financing to Make Purchases from the Company and/or Maintain Their Business: Some of our customers require substantial financing in order to fund their operations and make purchases from the Company. The inability of these customers to obtain sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and/or meet their payment obligations to us could have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, if the financial crisis results in insolvencies for our customers, it will adversely impact our financial results. We face risks related to our international operations and revenue. Our customers are located throughout the world. In addition, with the acquisition of NKF, we have significant international operations including manufacturing, product development, sales and customer support operations. Our operations outside North America are primarily located in the Netherlands. Our international presence exposes us to certain risks, including the following: •currency fluctuations; •our ability to comply with customs, import/export and other trade compliance regulations of the countries in which we do business, together with any unexpected changes in such regulations; •difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights; •tariffs and other trade barriers; •political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets, particularly in those markets in which we maintain manufacturing and research facilities; •difficulties in staffing and management; •language and cultural barriers; •seasonal reductions in business activities in the countries where our international customers are located; •integration of foreign operations; •longer payment cycles; •greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; and •potential adverse tax consequences. 11 Table of Contents Net revenue from International and U.S. based business accounted for 67% and 33% of the Company's total revenue in 2008. Within the U.S. based business sales to customers in Canada, South America and Latin America were 9% in 2008. We expect that revenue from customers outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenue. If we fail to manage our exposure to worldwide financial markets successfully, our operating results could suffer. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. A portion of our net revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, our European operations conduct a substantial portion of their activities in other currencies, primarily Euros. A significant change in interest rates or movement in the Euro compared to the U.S. Dollar impacts our operations and financial position. If we are unable to generate new sales and maintain profitability, our business and our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely impacted. Our lack of profitability in certain periods may impact our ability to attract customers, employees, investors and creditors. Our ability to sustain profitability in future periods will depend in large part on our ability to maintain current customers and generate new sales, to maintain or improve our rate of manufacturing utilization, and to manage sales, product development, and general and administrative expenses in proportion to our revenue. We cannot be certain that we will generate profits in the future and a failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our profitability and cash flow constraints are particularly emphasized in our U.S. operations where our recent sales levels underscore the need to succeed with the implementation of product advancements and sales improvements and maintain cost controls. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 