Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Fluctuations in financial performance could harm our long-term growth strategy. We have experienced and may, in the future, continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. Factors that may cause operating results to vary include, but are not limited to, changing technology, new product transitions, delays in new product introductions, competition, shortages of system components, changes in the mix of products and services sold and timing of investments in additional personnel, facilities and research and development. As a result of the impact of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of the future performance in any particular fiscal period. We are somewhat limited in our ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Therefore, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected if increased revenues are not achieved. If we fail to manage or anticipate our future growth effectively our business will suffer. The loss of one or more of our major customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, approximately 14% of our revenues were accounted for by sales to five commercial customers. This is similar to the prior year when five customers represented 16% of our revenues. In the event of a reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more significant customers or if one or more significant customers selects products from one of our competitors for inclusion in future product generations, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. There can be no assurance that current customers will continue to place orders with us, that orders by existing customers will continue at current or historical levels or that we will be able to obtain orders from new customers. The loss of one or more of our current significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 8 We face significant competition for our products and any failure to remain competitive would harm our operating results. The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive and characterized by rapidly changing technologies. We face significant competition from a large number of domestic and international competitors, some of which have larger product development, research and sales staffs. To remain competitive in both the current and future business climates, we believe we must maintain a substantial commitment to research and development. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and emerging industry standards and that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing such products or producing enhancements that meet these changing demands, or that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our inability to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements in a timely manner or our failure to achieve market acceptance of a new product could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and our efforts to remain competitive. We continue to integrate and face risks in effectively managing the integration. Achieving the maximum benefits of our merger with NKF will depend in part on the integration of technology, operations and personnel. We continue the integration process including a recent restructuring of our product development, manufacturing and sales processes. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • Coordinating manufacturing operations in a rapid and efficient manner; • Combining product offerings and product lines effectively and quickly; • Integrating sales efforts so that customers can do business easily with the combined company; • Bringing together the companies’ marketing efforts so that the industry receives useful information about the merger; • Coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new products and technologies; and • Persuading employees that Optelecom’s and NKF’s business cultures are compatible. Also we cannot assure you that the growth rate of the combined company will equal the historical growth rate experienced by Optelecom and NKF. The acquisition of NKF also increased our risks relating to foreign currency risk exposure, increased financing costs as a result of increased borrowings to effectuate the transaction and increased debt. While management believes that the transaction will continue to be accretive, if it is not, we may be required to pursue equity or other financing to refinance the acquisition debt and enter into foreign currency hedges to reduce the exchange rate risk. Management believes that the individuals retained at NKF will continue the successful operations in the future and continue the effective management of NKF. We borrowed $23.1 million of senior and subordinated notes in our acquisition of NKF. In connection with the acquisition of NKF, we borrowed $23.1 million of senior and subordinated notes. The issuance of these notes substantially increased our principal payment obligations and we may not have enough cash to repay the notes when due. By incurring new indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. The degree to which we are leveraged could materially and adversely affect our ability to successfully obtain financing for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes and could make us more vulnerable to industry downturns and competitive pressures. 9 Future Capital Needs; Uncertainty of Additional Funding We believe that our current capital resources, including an existing $5,000,000 bank line-of-credit and future operating cash flows, will generate the funds needed for our long-term cash requirements. However, if our growth rate should exceed expectations, or if we should fail to generate the anticipated operating cash flows, we would be required to seek additional funding. In those circumstances, we would look to increase our line of credit and/or pursue equity financing. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available in a timely manner or on acceptable terms. If issuing equity securities raises additional funds, further dilution to existing stockholders will result. If adequate funds are not available when needed, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate product research and development and overhead costs. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business could suffer. Our future depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We may not be able to hire and retain such personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure. Our future also depends on the continued contributions of our executive management team and other key management and technical personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. The loss of service from these or other executive officers or key personnel or the inability to continue to attract qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. In March 2007, the Company restructured its corporate structure to globally integrate the management functions previously established as individually and separately-managed units at its US and European facilities. Management believes these changes will help position the Company as a more effective global competitor while supporting our commitment to lead in innovation and customer satisfaction. Further they believe it will better position the Company to develop new markets and new alliances in a very dynamic environment as we pursue growth aggressively in both the video security and intelligent transportation markets and seek to develop a significant position in the Federal marketplace. While this and other restructurings may allow us to better align responsibilities and further expand and strengthen the management team, we face general business risks associated with any transition in roles and responsibilities. Our common stock price is volatile, we have never paid dividends and our stock is subject to future dilution. Our Common Stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Small-Cap Market. The securities markets have from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that were unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, the market prices of the common stock of many publicly traded technology companies have in the past been, and can in the future be expected to be, especially volatile. Announcements of technological innovations or new products of the Company or our competitors, developments or disputes concerning proprietary rights, publicity regarding products under development by the Company or our competitors, regulatory developments in both the United States and foreign countries, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations in our operating and product development results, may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. We have not paid any cash dividends since our inception and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, dilution will occur upon the exercise of outstanding stock options. Additionally, further dilution could be significant if we experience additional requirements to fund operations and decide to complete a future equity financing. We face risks related to our international operations and revenue. Our customers are located throughout the world. In addition, with the acquisition of NKF, we have significant offshore operations, including manufacturing, sales and customer support operations. Our operations outside North 10 America are primarily located in the Netherlands. Our international presence exposes us to certain risks, including the following: • our ability to comply with customs, import/export and other trade compliance regulations of the countries in which we do business, together with any unexpected changes in such regulations; • difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • political, legal and economic instability in foreign markets, particularly in those markets in which we maintain manufacturing and research facilities; • difficulties in staffing and management; • language and cultural barriers; • seasonal reductions in business activities in the countries where our international customers are located; • integration of foreign operations; • longer payment cycles; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • currency fluctuations; and • potential adverse tax consequences. Net revenue from customers outside North America accounted for 63%, 56%, and 24% of the Company’s total revenue in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. We expect that revenue from customers outside North America will continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenue. In addition, sales of many of our customers depend on international sales and consequently further expose us to the risks associated with such international sales. If we fail to manage our exposure to worldwide financial markets successfully, our operating results could suffer. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We do not use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks. A substantial portion of our net revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in U.S. dollars. However, some of these activities are conducted in other currencies, primarily European currencies. A significant change in interest rates or movement in the European currencies compared to the U.S. Dollar would impact our operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 