Item 1A. Risk Factors Although various risk factors and specific cautionary statements are described elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in units of Tidelands. Oil and natural gas prices fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce net proceeds available to Tidelands and distributions to Tidelands’ unitholders. Tidelands’ quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil and natural gas. A significant downward movement in the prices for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating cash flows, which could decrease our distributions to unitholders. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of foreign oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, can affect product prices in the long term. Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economic to produce and reduce net profits available to Tidelands. The volatility of energy prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to unitholders. Substantially all of the oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids produced from the Royalty Area is being sold under short-term or multi-month contracts at market clearing prices or on the spot market. Operating risks for the working interest owners’ interests in the Royalty Area can adversely affect distributions. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and other natural disasters in the Royalty Area will reduce distributions. These occurrences include blowouts, cratering, explosions, environmental and hurricane damage that may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. For example, hurricane Rita came ashore near Beaumont Texas in September 2005 and caused severe damage to pipelines and onshore structures that take delivery of the oil and natural gas produced on various properties subject to Tidelands’ royalty interest. The wells on West Cameron Blocks 165, 291, and 225 were shut in for all of the fourth quarter of 2005 and the wells on Sabine Pass Block 13 were shut in during October 2005. The wells on West Cameron Blocks 165 and 291 were back on stream in July 2006. The wells on West Cameron Block 225 were shut in all of 2006 and are expected to go back on stream during the first quarter of 2007. Royalty interests are depleting assets and, if the working interest owners or other operators of the Royalty Area do not perform additional development projects, the assets may deplete faster than expected. The net proceeds payable to Tidelands are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to unitholders attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects in the Royalty Area will affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of oil and natural gas. If operators of the Royalty Area do not implement additional maintenance and 4 Table of Contents development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently experienced by Tidelands. The owner of any properties in the Royalty Area may abandon any property, terminating the related royalty interest Tidelands may hold. The working interest owners may at any time transfer all or part of the properties in the Royalty Area to another unrelated third party. Unitholders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and Tidelands will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty Area will continue to be subject to Tidelands’ royalty interest, but the net proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to Tidelands its royalty interest on the transferred portion of the Royalty Area, and the current owner of the Royalty Area would have no continuing obligation to Tidelands for those properties. The current working interest owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it reasonably believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities. This could result in termination of Tidelands’ royalty interest relating to the abandoned well. The Trustee, Tidelands and its unitholders do not control the operation or development of the properties in the Royalty Area and have little influence over operation or development. The Trustee, Tidelands and its unitholders have little, if any, influence or control over the operation or future development of the underlying properties. The properties in the Royalty Area are owned by independent working interest owners. The working interest owners manage the underlying properties and handle receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Area and payments to Tidelands for its royalty interests. The current working interest owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. The Trustee, Tidelands and its unitholders do not have the right to replace an operator. Important reserve and other information with respect to the particular leases subject to Tidelands’ royalty interest is difficult to obtain. The leasehold working interests that are subject to the rights held by Tidelands were originally owned in whole or in part by Chevron and, except for one non-producing lease, have been assigned to other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Certain information including, but not limited to, reserves, availability of oil and natural gas, average production cost (lifting cost) per unit, undeveloped acreage and net wells and net acres, with respect to the particular leases subject to Tidelands’ interests lies solely within the knowledge of these concerns. Engineering data, if any, regarding these leaseholds would have been compiled principally by or for the working interest owners of these leaseholders and Tidelands believes that it will not be provided access to such information. Terrorism and continued geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect Tidelands’ distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as the military or other actions taken in response, cause instability in the global financial and energy markets. Terrorism and other geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect Tidelands’ distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of fuel supplies and markets, increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators of the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. Unitholders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations which are generally governed by boards of directors elected by their equity holders, Tidelands is administered by a corporate Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of Tidelands. 5 Table of Contents The limited liability of the unitholders is uncertain. The unitholders are not protected from the liabilities of Tidelands to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation’s liabilities. The structure of Tidelands as a trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership, which would provide further limited liability protection to interest holders. While Tidelands is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to insure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of Tidelands’ assets, under the laws of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a holder of units may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if the satisfaction of such liabilities was not contractually limited to the assets of Tidelands and the assets of Tidelands and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, unitholders may be exposed to personal liability. If it is determined that the Trust is subject to the Texas margin tax, the Trustee may have to withhold a disproportionate amount from future distributions to pay the tax liability. The Trustee does not intend to pay any amounts for the new Texas margin tax for tax year 2007, based on Tidelands’ belief that it is exempt from tax as a passive entity; however, there is currently no clear statutory authority that Tidelands meets requirements for the margin tax exemption as a passive entity. If it is subsequently determined that Tidelands is not exempt from the margin tax, Tidelands would be required to deduct and withhold from future distributions the amounts necessary to pay the margin tax for the entire 2007 year, including the tax liability accruing on income distributed after December 2006, attributable to 2007 revenues, from which no tax was withheld. Tidelands’ royalty interest can be sold and the Tidelands trust can be terminated. The Tidelands trust may be terminated and the Trustee may sell Tidelands’ royalty interests if holders of 80% of the units of beneficial interest of Tidelands approve the sale and vote to terminate the trust. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale will be distributed to the unitholders and unitholders will receive no further distributions from Tidelands. Any such sale may not be on terms acceptable to all unitholders. The operators of the working interest owner are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Oil and gas operations have been, and in the future will be, affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls and environmental protection regulations. Although we are unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact our royalty interests. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 