Item 1A. Risk Factors Although various risk factors and specific cautionary statements are described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following is a summary of the principal risks associated with the Trust and an investment in units of the Trust. 4 Table of Contents Tidelands is unable to acquire royalty interests in any more leases. Chevron and its assignees are no longer obligated to assign any interest to Tidelands out of any lease that they acquire on any of the Tracts. In addition, Tidelands is not permitted to carry on any business, including making investments in additional oil and natural gas interests. Tidelands will continue to be entitled to receive payments on four of the leases acquired by Chevron or its assignees prior to the Acquisition Expiration Date, so long as the leases exist and such leases contain active wells. Once the leases terminate or expire, any overriding royalties payable to Tidelands terminate and Tidelands cannot acquire any additional or replacement royalty interests. For example, one of the original five leases acquired by Chevron or its assignees terminated in May 2012. Royalty interests are depleting assets and may deplete faster than expected or in their entirety. The net proceeds payable to Tidelands are derived from the sale of depleting assets. Accordingly, the portion of the distributions to unitholders that are attributable to depletion may be considered a return of capital as opposed to a return on investment. Distributions that are considered a return of capital will ultimately diminish the depletion tax benefits available to unitholders, which could reduce the market value of the units over time. The reduction in proved reserve quantities is a common measure of depletion. Future maintenance and development projects in the Royalty Area will likely affect the quantity of proved reserves. The timing and size of these projects will depend on the market prices of oil and natural gas. If operators of the Royalty Area do not implement additional maintenance and development projects, the future rate of production decline of proved reserves may be higher than the rate currently experienced by Tidelands. Eventually, the properties in the Royalty Area will stop producing in commercial quantities and Tidelands’ leases in the Royalty Area will terminate or expire, and Tidelands will no longer receive any distributions of net proceeds or overriding royalty interest payments. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and fluctuate due to a number of factors, and lower prices will reduce royalty payments to Tidelands and distributions to its unitholders. Tidelands’ quarterly distributions are highly dependent upon the prices realized from the sale of oil and natural gas. A significant downward movement in the prices for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on Tidelands’ distributable income, which could decrease the distributions to unitholders and the market price for the units. Historically, prices have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future due to factors beyond Tidelands’ control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • political conditions worldwide, in particular political disruption, terrorist activities, war or other armed conflicts in oil producing regions, especially in the Middle East; • worldwide economic conditions; • weather conditions; • the supply and price of domestic and foreign oil and natural gas; • the level of consumer demand; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • the proximity to, and capacity of, transportation facilities; and • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures. Moreover, government regulations, such as regulation of natural gas transportation and price controls, can affect oil and natural gas product prices in the long term. Lower prices may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that is economical to produce and reduce distributable income available to Tidelands. The volatility of oil and gas prices reduces the predictability of future cash distributions to unitholders. Substantially all of the oil and natural gas produced from the Royalty Area is being sold under short-term or multi-month contracts at market clearing prices or on the spot market. 5 Table of Contents The market price for the units may not reflect the value of the royalty interests held by Tidelands. The public trading price for the units tends to be tied to the recent and expected levels of cash distributions on the units. The amounts available for distribution by Tidelands vary in response to numerous factors outside of Tidelands’ control, including prevailing prices for oil and natural gas produced from properties in the Royalty Area. The market price of the units is not necessarily indicative of the value that Tidelands would realize if it sold its interest in the properties in the Royalty Area to a third party and distributed the net proceeds to its unitholders. In addition, the market price of the units is not necessarily reflective of the fact that Tidelands’ assets are depleting assets and a portion of each cash distribution paid on the units should be considered by investors as a return of capital, with the remainder being considered as a return on investment. There is no guarantee that distributions made to a unitholder over the life of these depleting assets will equal or exceed the purchase price paid by the unitholder for the unit. In addition, the public stock markets have traditionally experienced price and trading volume volatility. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons that may or may not be related to operating performance. If the public stock markets continue to experience price and trading volume volatility in the future, the market price of the units could be adversely affected. The Trustee may not be able to resign or a new trustee may not be approved. As discussed in” Item 7. Trustee’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Recent Developments” below, the Trustee intends to resign as trustee of the Trust. The Trust cannot guarantee that the unitholders will consent to the replacement of the Trustee with Southwest Bank, an independent state bank chartered under the laws of the State of Texas and headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas (“Southwest Bank”), and there is no guarantee that Southwest Bank will become the new trustee. If Southwest Bank does not become the new trustee, there can be no assurance that the Trustee will remain the trustee or that a different trustee will not be approved at a later date. Our units have been thinly traded and an active trading market for our units may not develop. The trading volume of our units has historically been low, partially because our units are only traded on the OTCQB. In addition, our public float has been further limited because approximately 32.6% of our units were owned by Marine as of March 11, 2014. As a result, sales of small amounts of the units in the public market could cause the price of the units to fluctuate greatly, including in a materially adverse manner. In addition, a more active trading market for our units may not develop, or if it does develop, may not continue, and a unitholder may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our units. Operating risks for the working interest owners’ interests in the Royalty Area can adversely affect distributions. The occurrence of drilling, production or transportation accidents and other natural disasters in the Royalty Area can reduce distributions. These occurrences include blowouts, cratering, explosions, environmental and hurricane damage that may result in personal injuries, property damage, damage to productive formations or equipment and environmental damages. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on the amount of our distributions or the market value of the units. Failure to collect royalty payments from working interest owners could adversely affect Tidelands’ distributions to its unitholders. A significant portion of Tidelands’ royalties are attributable to a limited number of working interest owners. During 2013, Apache Corporation accounted for approximately 52% of the royalty payments to Tidelands. Tidelands does not require working interest owners to pledge collateral or otherwise post security for royalty payments. Tidelands has encountered and may in the future encounter collection issues with one or more of the working interest owners at any time, which could result in Tidelands not receiving payment for some or all of its royalty interests. Any reduction in royalty payments would reduce Tidelands’ distributable income to unitholders. For example, since January 2010, Sterling Energy, Inc. and Barron Petroleum Company, who collectively own 25.00% of the working interest on Galveston Block 303, have not paid royalties to Tidelands pending an agreement on which working interest owner is responsible for making the payments. Tidelands estimates that the royalties due from Sterling Energy, Inc. and Barron Petroleum Company would have totaled approximately $85,887 for 2010, 2011 and 2012. 6 Table of Contents The owner of any properties in the Royalty Area may transfer any of the properties in the Royalty Area to another unrelated third party, which could reduce the amount of royalty payments that are received. The working interest owners may at any time transfer all or part of the properties in the Royalty Area to another unrelated third party. Unitholders are not entitled to vote on any transfer, and Tidelands will not receive any proceeds of any such transfer. Following any transfer, the Royalty Area will continue to be subject to Tidelands’ royalty interest, but the net proceeds from the transferred property would be calculated separately and paid by the transferee. The transferee would be responsible for all of the obligations relating to calculating, reporting and paying to Tidelands its royalty interest on the transferred portion of the Royalty Area, and the transferor of the transferred property in the Royalty Area would have no continuing obligation to Tidelands for the property. Any such transferee may not be as financially sound as the current working interest owner. The owner of any properties in the Royalty Area may abandon any property, terminating the related royalty interest Tidelands may hold. The current working interest owners or any transferee may abandon any well or property if it believes that the well or property can no longer produce in commercially economic quantities or for any other reason. This would terminate Tidelands’ royalty interest relating to the abandoned well or property. The Trustee, Tidelands and the Trust’s unitholders do not control the operation or development of the properties in the Royalty Area and have little influence over operation or development. The Trustee, Tidelands and the Trust’s unitholders have little, if any, influence or control over the operation or future development of the underlying properties in the Royalty Area. The properties in the Royalty Area are owned by independent working interest owners. The working interest owners manage the underlying properties and handle the receipt and payment of funds relating to the Royalty Area and payments to Tidelands for its royalty interests. The current working interest owners are under no obligation to continue operating the properties. The failure of a working interest owner to conduct its operations, discharge its obligations, cooperate with regulatory agencies or comply with laws, rules and regulations in a proper manner could have an adverse effect on net proceeds payable to Tidelands. The Trustee, Tidelands and the Trust’s unitholders do not have the right to replace an operator. Important reserve and other information with respect to the particular leases subject to Tidelands’ royalty interest is unreasonably difficult to obtain. The leasehold working interests that are subject to the rights held by Tidelands were owned in whole or in part by Chevron and have been assigned to other oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Certain information with respect to the particular leases subject to Tidelands’ interests, including, but not limited to, (i) reserves, (ii) availability of oil and natural gas, (iii) average production cost (lifting cost) per unit, (iv) undeveloped acreage and (v) net wells and net acres, lies solely within the knowledge of these working interest owners. Tidelands does not have access to engineering data regarding these leaseholds and believes such information would have been compiled principally by or for the working interest owners of these leaseholds and such information is unreasonably difficult for Tidelands to obtain. Terrorism and continued geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect Tidelands’ distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks, whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to such attacks or threats, could cause instability in the global financial, oil and natural gas markets. Terrorism and other geopolitical hostilities could adversely affect the Trust’s distributions to its unitholders or the market price of its units in unpredictable ways, including through the disruption of oil and natural gas supplies and markets, increased volatility in oil and natural gas prices, or the possibility that the infrastructure on which the operators of the underlying properties rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terror. 7 Table of Contents Unitholders have limited voting rights. Voting rights as a unitholder are more limited than those of stockholders of most public corporations. For example, there is no requirement for annual meetings of unitholders or for an annual or other periodic re-election of the Trustee. Unlike corporations, which are generally governed by boards of directors that are elected by their equity holders, the Trust is administered by a corporate trustee in accordance with the Indenture and other organizational documents. The Trustee has extremely limited discretion in its administration of the Trust. The limited liability of the unitholders is uncertain. The unitholders are not protected from the liabilities of the Trust to the same extent that a shareholder would be protected from a corporation’s liabilities. The structure of the Trust as a trust does not include the interposition of a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited partnership, which would provide further limited liability protection to unitholders. While the Trust is liable for any excess liabilities incurred if the Trustee fails to ensure that such liabilities are to be satisfied only out of the Trust’s assets, under the laws of the State of Texas, which are unsettled on this point, a unitholder may be jointly and severally liable for any liability of the Trust if (i) the satisfaction of such liabilities was not contractually limited to the assets of the Trust and (ii) the assets of the Trust and the Trustee are not adequate to satisfy such liability. As a result, unitholders may be exposed to personal liability. Tidelands’ royalty interest can be sold and the Trust can be terminated. The Trust may be terminated and the Trustee may sell Tidelands’ royalty interests if holders of 80% or more of the units of beneficial interest of the Trust approve the sale and vote to terminate the Trust. Following any such termination and liquidation, the net proceeds of any sale would be distributed to the unitholders and the unitholders would receive no further distributions from the Trust. Any such sale may not be on terms acceptable or favorable to all unitholders. The operators of the oil and natural gas leases are subject to extensive governmental regulation. Oil and natural gas operators have been, and in the future will be, affected by Federal, state and local laws and regulations and other political developments, such as price or gathering rate controls, drilling regulations and environmental protection regulations, including the regulation of hydraulic fracturing. Although Tidelands is unable to predict changes to existing laws and regulations, such changes could significantly impact royalty interests. Cash held by the Trustee is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Currently, cash held by Tidelands reserved for the payment of accrued liabilities and estimated future expenses and distributions to unitholders is typically held in cash deposits, U.S. Treasury and agency bonds and money market accounts. Tidelands places such reserve cash with financial institutions that Tidelands considers creditworthy and limits the amount of credit exposure from any one financial institution. However, none of these accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In the event that any such financial institution becomes insolvent, Tidelands may be unable to recover any or all such cash from the insolvent financial institution. Any loss of such cash may have a material adverse effect on Tidelands’ cash balances and any distributions to unitholders. Financial information of Tidelands is not prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The financial statements of Tidelands are prepared on a modified cash basis of accounting, which is a comprehensive basis of accounting that differs from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). Although this basis of accounting is permitted for royalty trusts by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the financial statements of Tidelands differ from financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP because royalty income is recognized in the month it is received rather than in the month of production, expenses are recorded in the month paid rather than in the month incurred and reserves may be established for contingencies that would not be recorded under GAAP. 8 Table of Contents If Tidelands becomes subject to the Texas franchise tax, the Trustee may have to withhold amounts from future distributions to pay the tax liability. In May 2006, the State of Texas enacted legislation, as amended, to implement a franchise or “margin” tax. Certain entities that were previously exempt from the franchise tax, including many trusts, are now subject to the tax. Trusts, however, other than business trusts (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulation section 301.7701-4(b)), that meet certain statutory requirements are exempt from the franchise tax as “passive entities.” The Trustee does not expect that the Trust will be required to pay any amounts under the Texas state franchise tax for 2013 tax year, based on the Trustee’s belief that the Trust is exempt from the franchise tax as a passive entity (i.e., the Trust is not a business trust, it receives at least 90% of its Federal gross income from certain passive sources, and no more than 10% of its income is derived from an active trade or business). If it is subsequently determined that the Trust is not exempt from the franchise tax, the Trust will be required to deduct and withhold from future distributions the amount required to satisfy and pay the Trust’s franchise tax liability for years for which the applicable statute of limitations has not yet expired. In addition, the Trust would be required to timely pay franchise tax liability due with respect to current and future years. If the Trust is exempt from the Texas state franchise tax as a passive entity, each unitholder that is subject to the Texas franchise tax as a taxable entity under the Texas Tax Code should generally include its share of the Trust’s revenue in its franchise tax computation. The Texas franchise tax does not apply to natural persons. Each unitholder is urged to consult its own tax advisor regarding its possible Texas state franchise tax liability. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 