ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company faces multiple risk factors, including risks that are industry specific to the markets that the Company serves, and risks that affect the Company as a whole. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE MARKET (RV) RISK FACTORS - --------------------------------------------- Fuel: Higher costs or shortages of fuel could reduce demand for RV's. Inventories: Excess inventories at the retail level could temporarily reduce demand for new RV's. Cyclicality: The RV market has historically experienced cyclicality. A downturn in market conditions is possible. Credit: The lack of available credit for retail purchasers could reduce demand for new units. Obsolescence: A loss of a customer or a change in a customer's decor specifications could lead to obsolescence in the Company's raw material inventory to the extent items were purchased specifically for that customer or decor. MANUFACTURED HOUSING MARKET (MH) RISK FACTORS - --------------------------------------------- Cyclicality: The MH market has historically experienced cyclicality. The market has been experiencing a prolonged down cycle since 1998 when approximately 372,800 units were produced nationally. In 2006, the industry shipped approximately 117,500 units. Credit: The lack of available credit for retail purchasers could continue to reduce the demand for new units. Repossessions: Increases in the number of repossessed units could reduce the demand for new units. Regulations: Changes in zoning regulations and building codes could reduce the demand for new units. Geographic Concentration: The Company's sales to the MH industry are concentrated in the southern United States. This is due to the overall geographic concentration in that region (southeast) of about 59.1% of total industry shipments. Obsolescence: A loss of a customer or a change in a customer's decor specifications could lead to obsolescence in the Company's raw material inventory to the extent items were purchased specifically for that customer or decor. 2 HOSPITALITY MARKET RISK FACTORS - ------------------------------- Competition: The market for the Company's hospitality products is highly competitive, as its customers are provided with many sourcing choices, including foreign sources for some products. Occupancy: A decrease in hospitality occupancy rates could have a negative impact on both new properties and refurbishing of existing properties. Decreases in the levels of business and/or leisure travel could reduce occupancy rates. Sales Representation: The majority of the Company's hospitality business is solicited by independent sales representatives. The loss of a few key representatives could have a negative effect on the Company's revenues. GENERAL CORPORATE RISK FACTORS - ------------------------------ Competition: All of the markets served by the Company are highly competitive. Competitive pricing pressure could result in loss of customers or decreased profit margins. Barriers to entry for new domestic competitors are relatively small, thereby increasing the potential for more competitors. Although the Company has not faced competition from foreign sources to date, the possibility of such competition does exist. Raw Material Acquisition: The Company faces the risk of having to pay increased prices for purchasing raw material from its suppliers. Should the Company face price increases that it cannot pass on to its customers, the results of operations could suffer as a result. If the Company's suppliers were adversely affected by a disruption in the petroleum or chemical industries, the Company's costs or ability to deliver product may also be adversely affected. Management: The Company is dependent on the management and guidance of William Bassett, its chairman, CEO, and president. The loss of Mr. Bassett's services could have a negative impact on the performance and growth of the Company for some period of time. To a lesser extent, the Company is dependent on the key management at each of its manufacturing operations. Stock Price: The Company's stock is thinly traded. Should a major shareholder decide to liquidate its position, there could be a negative effect on the price of the stock until this condition is resolved. Sarbanes-Oxley: Unless the current requirement for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is changed, the Company will experience higher internal and auditing costs to comply by the end of fiscal 2007. Significant Customer: Sales to Fleetwood Enterprises represented 26.6% of the Company's sales in 2006. Although the Company has an agreement with Fleetwood to be its exclusive supplier of certain products through January 2010, Fleetwood's performance in its own markets could have a negative impact on the Company's sales and results of operations. To a lesser extent, the loss of other major customers could also adversely affect the Company. Information Systems: The Company is in the process of upgrading its Enterprise-Resource-Planning (ERP) system. Any unforeseen difficulties in the implementation of this system can result in increased future consulting costs as well as increased depreciation costs for the installed software. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 3 