ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or anticipated future results. For a discussion identifying additional risk factors and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, see the discussion in “Forward Looking Information” in Item 7 below – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Because we incur significant capital expenditures annually, we depend on the rates we charge our customers, which are subject to regulation. The water utility business is capital intensive. On an annual basis, we spend significant sums for additions to or replacement of property, plant and equipment. Our ability to maintain and meet our financial objectives is dependent upon the rates we charge our customers. These rates are subject to approval by the PURA in Connecticut and the MPUC in Maine. The Company is entitled to file rate increase requests, from time to time, to recover our investments in utility plant and expenses. Once a rate increase petition is filed with the respective agency, the ensuing administrative and hearing process may be lengthy and costly. We can provide no assurances that any future rate increase requests will be approved by each agency; and, if approved, we cannot guarantee that any such rate increase requests will be granted in a timely or sufficient manner to cover the investments and expenses for which we initially sought the rate increase. Additionally, a regulatory agency may rule that a company must reduce its rates. Under a 2007 Connecticut law, the PURA may authorize regulated water companies to use a rate adjustment mechanism, known as a Water Infrastructure and Conservation Adjustment (WICA), for eligible projects completed and in service for the benefit of the customers. For more information related to WICA, please refer to the “Executive Overview” found in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. If we are unable to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due, or we default under certain other provisions of our loan documents, our indebtedness could be accelerated and our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, we had $135.3 million in long-term debt outstanding and $21.4 million in bank loans payable. Our ability to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it comes due will depend upon our current and future performance. Our performance is affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We believe that our cash generated from operations, and, if necessary, borrowing under our existing and planned credit facilities, will be sufficient to enable us to make our debt payments as they become due. If, however, we do not generate sufficient cash, we may be required to refinance our obligations or sell additional equity, which may be on terms that are not favorable to the Company as current terms. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or sale of equity will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our failure to comply with certain provisions contained in our trust indentures and loan agreements relating to our outstanding indebtedness could lead to a default on these documents, which could result in an acceleration of our indebtedness. Credit market volatility may affect our ability to refinance our existing debt, borrow funds under our existing lines of credit or incur additional debt. During certain periods of the Unites States credit and liquidity crisis of 2008-2009, the volatility and disruption in the credit and banking markets reached unprecedented levels. In many cases, the markets contained limited credit capacity for certain issuers, and lenders had requested shorter terms. The market for new debt financing was limited and in some cases not available at all. In addition, the markets had increased the uncertainty that lenders will be able to comply with their previous commitments. The Company noted improvements beginning during the second half of 2009 and continuing through 2011. If market disruption and volatility return, the Company may not be able to refinance our existing debt when it comes due, draw upon our existing lines of credit or incur additional debt, which may require us to seek other funding sources to meet our liquidity needs or to fund our capital expenditures budget. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain debt or other financing on reasonable terms, or at all. 7 Table of Contents Failure to maintain our existing credit ratings could affect our cost of funds and related margins and liquidity position. Since 2003, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services has rated our outstanding debt and has given credit ratings to us and our subsidiary The Connecticut Water Company. Their evaluations are based on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. On October 28, 2011, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) affirmed its 'A' corporate credit rating on the Company, however, S&P revised the Company’s ratings outlook from stable to negative. The negative outlook reflected S&P’s expectation of weaker credit metrics as a result of the debt the Company planned to incur to complete the acquisition of AM as well as additional near-term debt funding of the Company’s capital expenditure program. S&P also indicated that if the Company were to issue a material amount of common equity in the future, this step could lead S&P to revise the outlook to stable. Our inability to comply with debt covenants under our credit facilities could result in prepayment obligations. We are obligated to comply with debt covenants under our loan and debt agreements. Failure to comply with covenants under our credit facilities could result in an event of default, which if not timely cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay or finance these borrowings before their due date, could limit future borrowings, and result in cross default issues and increase borrowing costs. The covenants are normal and customary in bank and loan agreements. The Company was in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2011. Market conditions may unfavorably impact the value of our benefit plan assets and liabilities which then could require significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans and could significantly impact our results of operations and financial position. As detailed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has significant obligations in these areas and the Company holds significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations, which may affect investment returns, which may fall below the Company’s projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the pension and postretirement benefit plan assets will increase the funding requirements under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans if the actual asset returns do not recover these declines in value. Additionally, the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Further, changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions may also increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Also, future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable from our customers, and the results of operations and financial position of the Company could be negatively affected. Our operating costs could be significantly increased because of state and federal environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. Our water and wastewater operations are governed by extensive federal and state environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, the Clean Water Act and similar state laws, and federal and state regulations issued under these laws by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental regulatory agencies. These laws and regulations establish, among other things, criteria and standards for drinking water and for discharges into the waters of the United States, the State of Connecticut and/or the State of Maine. Pursuant to these laws, we are required to obtain various environmental permits from environmental regulatory agencies for our operations. We cannot assure that we have been or will be at all times in full compliance with these laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently. These laws, and the enforcement thereof, have tended to become more stringent over time. While we have budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with these laws and our permits, it is possible that new or stricter standards could be imposed that will raise our operating costs. Although these costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that either the PURA or the MPUC would approve rate increases to enable us to fully recover such costs. In summary, we cannot be assured that our costs of complying with, or discharging liabilities under, current and future environmental and health and safety laws will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Climate change laws and regulations may be adopted that could require compliance with greenhouse gas emissions standards and other climate change initiatives. Additional capital expenditures could be required and our operating costs could be increased in order to comply with new regulatory standards imposed by federal and state environmental agencies. Climate change is receiving ever increasing attention worldwide. Many scientists, legislators, and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Possible new climate change laws and regulations, if enacted, may require us to monitor and/or change our utility operations. It is possible that new standards could be imposed that will require additional capital expenditures or raise our operating costs. Because it is uncertain what laws will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Although these expenditures and costs may be recovered in the form of higher rates, there can be no assurance that either the PURA or the MPUC or other regulatory bodies that govern our business would permit us to recover such expenditures and costs. We cannot assure you that our costs of complying with new standards or laws will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. New Streamflow Regulations could potentially impact our ability to serve our customers. In December 2011, new regulations concerning the flow of water in Connecticut’s rivers and streams became law. These regulations were initially proposed by the Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) in 2009, and were twice rejected by the State Legislature’s Regulations Review Committee. Following the last rejection, DEEP worked closely with stakeholders to develop regulations that were not opposed by the regulated community. As promulgated, the regulations will require that certain downstream releases be made from seven of the Company's eighteen active reservoirs no later than ten years following the adoption of stream classifications, which has yet to occur. Currently, releases are made at two locations. No groundwater supply wells are affected by the regulations. Although significantly and favorably modified from prior versions, the regulations still have the potential to lower our safe yield, raise our capital and operating expenses and adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Because they affect only a subset of the Company's supplies and allow for releases to be scaled back in response to drought events, however, the overall impact is anticipated to be manageable. Costs associated with the regulations may be recovered in the form of higher rates, although there can be no assurance the PURA would approve rate increases to enable us to recover such costs. The DEEP has recently proposed legislation that would expand the current WICA mechanism to allow for customer surcharges to recover the costs associated with the capital improvements necessary to achieve compliance with the streamflow regulations. 8 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations which could adversely affect demand for our water services and our revenues. Demand for our water during the warmer months is generally greater than during cooler months due primarily to additional requirements for water in connection with irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other outside water use. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, demand will vary with temperature and rainfall levels. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the demand for our water may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. Declining per customer residential water usage may reduce our revenues, financial condition and results of operations in future years. A trend of declining per customer residential water usage in Connecticut and Maine has been observed for the last several years, which we would attribute to increased water conservation, including the use of more efficient household fixtures and appliances among residential users. Our regulated business is heavily dependent on revenue generated from rates we charge to our residential customers for the volume of water they use. The rate we charge for our water is regulated by the PURA in Connecticut and the MPUC in Maine and we may not unilaterally adjust our rates to reflect changes in demand. Declining volume of residential water usage may have a negative impact on our operating revenues in the future if regulators do not reflect any usage declines in the rate setting design process. Potential regulatory changes or drought conditions may impact our ability to serve our current and future customers’ demand for water and our financial results. We depend on an adequate water supply to meet the present and future demands of our customers. Changes in regulatory requirements could affect our ability to utilize existing supplies and/or secure new sources, as required. Insufficient supplies or an interruption in our water supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although not occurring in 2011, drought conditions could interfere with our sources of water supply and could adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our existing and future customers. An interruption in our water supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, governmental restrictions on water usage during drought conditions may result in a decreased demand for our water, even if our water reserves are sufficient to serve our customers during these drought conditions, which may adversely affect our revenues and earnings. We are increasingly dependent on the continuous and reliable operation of our information technology systems. We rely on our information technology systems in connection with the operation of our business, especially with respect to customer service and billing, accounting and, in some cases, the monitoring and operation of our treatment, storage and pumping facilities. A loss of these systems or major problems with the operation of these systems could affect our operations and have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. With the 2010 implementation of the Company’s new Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, the Company delayed customer billings in order to verify the integrity of the system and the accuracy of those bills prior to mailing. As a result, some billings and consequently, cash receipts were delayed. The Company has increased its utilization of its lines of credit during this period. Its operations, including plans to continue investment in new infrastructure, are not impacted. During 2011, the Company has seen progress towards resolving the collection issues, primarily through the ability to charge interest and shut off customers for non-payment and expects continued improvement throughout 2012. The Company fully anticipates that the reserve will return to more historical levels during 2012. The failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We own and operate numerous dams throughout the States of Connecticut and Maine. While the Company maintains robust dam maintenance and inspection programs, a failure of any of those dams could result in injuries and damage to residential and/or commercial property downstream for which we may be responsible, in whole or in part. The failure of a dam could also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any losses or liabilities incurred due to the failure of one of our dams might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. Any failure of our reservoirs, storage tanks, mains or distribution networks could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation. Connecticut Water and Maine Water distribute water through an extensive network of mains and stores water in reservoirs and storage tanks located across Connecticut and Maine. A failure of major mains, reservoirs, or tanks could result in injuries and damage to residential and/or commercial property for which we may be responsible, in whole or in part. The failure of major mains, reservoirs or tanks may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our water distribution network in order to conduct repairs. Such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water delivery requirements prescribed by governmental regulators, including the PURA and the MPUC, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and reputation. Any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance in the future at acceptable rates. Any future acquisitions we may undertake may involve risks and uncertainties. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and integration of water systems in order to move into new service areas and to broaden our current service areas. As of the date of this filing, Connecticut Water now serves more than 90,000 customers, or a population of over 300,000 people, in 55 Connecticut towns and an additional 16,000 customers, representing over 48,000 people, in 20 towns in the state of Maine served by Maine Water. We will be unable to acquire other businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates. It is our intent, when practical, to integrate any businesses we acquire with our existing operations. The negotiation of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired businesses, including Maine Water, could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management's time and resources. Future acquisitions by us could result in: · dilutive issuances of our equity securities; · incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · failure to have effective internal control over financial reporting; · fluctuations in quarterly results; and · other acquisition-related expenses. 9 Table of Contents Some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business as well as our ability to finance our business and comply with regulatory requirements. The businesses we acquire in the future may not achieve sales and profitability that would justify our investment and any difficulties we encounter in the integration process, including the integration of controls necessary for internal control and financial reporting, could interfere with our operations, reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our internal controls. In addition, as consolidation becomes more prevalent in the water and wastewater industries, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase to unacceptable levels and limit our ability to grow through acquisitions. Water supply contamination may adversely affect our business. Our water supplies are subject to possible contamination, including contamination from the development of naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from man-made sources, such as Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether (MTBE), and possible terrorist attacks. In the event that our water supply is contaminated, we may have to interrupt the use of that water supply until we are able to substitute the flow of water from an uncontaminated water source or provide additional treatment. We may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through expansion of our current treatment facilities, or development of new treatment methods. If we are unable to substitute water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a cost-effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial condition. The costs we incur to decontaminate a water source or an underground water system could be significant and could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and may not be recoverable in rates. We could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances in our water supplies or other environmental damage. For example, private plaintiffs have the right to bring personal injury or other toxic tort claims arising from the presence of hazardous substances in our drinking water supplies. Our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover the costs of these claims. On January 6, 2012, Connecticut Water issued a “Do Not Drink Advisory” to 181 year round customers in the Amston Lake water system when elevated levels of copper were detected in samples from some customers’ homes. While there was not a violation of any state or federal water quality standard, copper levels in samples from some customers’ homes were found above the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) action level of 1.3 mg/L. The "Do Not Drink Advisory" was lifted on January 18, 2012. The Company is following an action plan approved by the Department of Public Health. The resulting copper levels have been below the EPA Action Level. Increased security measures may continue to increase our operating costs. In addition to the potential pollution of our water supply as described above, we have taken steps to increase security measures at our facilities and heighten employee awareness of threats to our water supply. We have also tightened our security measures regarding the delivery and handling of certain chemicals used in our business. We have and will continue to bear increased costs for security precautions to protect our facilities, operations and supplies. These costs may be significant. We are currently not aware of any specific threats to our facilities, operations or supplies; however, it is possible that we would not be in a position to control the outcome of terrorist events should they occur. The accuracy of our judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact our operating results and financial condition. We make certain estimates and judgments in preparing our financial statements regarding, among others: · the number of years to depreciate certain assets; · amounts to set aside for uncollectible accounts receivable and uninsured losses; · our legal exposure and the appropriate accrual for claims, including medical and workers’ compensation claims; · future costs for pensions and other post-retirement benefit obligations; and · possible tax allowances. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we must estimate unbilled revenues and costs at the end of each accounting period. If our estimates are not accurate, we will be required to make an adjustment in a future period. Key employee turnover may adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends significantly on the continued individual and collective contributions of our management team. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team or the inability to hire and retain experienced management personnel could harm our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 