ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our domestic and international businesses operate in highly competitive markets that involve a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The sale of the Simulation Business to Rockwell 7 Collins on May 26, 2006, has significantly changed our business. As a result, there are new risks and uncertainties that should be considered in evaluating our business. The following discussion highlights some risks and uncertainties that should be considered in evaluating our growth outlook. Our Business Model Has Changed and May Not Produce Consistent Earnings Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business With the sale of our Simulation Business to Rockwell Collins, our business model has significantly changed. Our business is now based on digital theaters and laser projectors. A significant portion of our future success will depend on completing and selling our laser projector, and future products based on this technology. There is no guarantee that the laser projector or any future products based on this technology will be successful in the market or that we can develop them. If we are unable to develop our laser projector, our business will be adversely affected. We May Experience Difficulty in Identifying, Forming and Maintaining New Business Opportunities That Are Important To the Development of Our Business We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant capital in new products, technologies, and business opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to identify suitable opportunities to expand our business in the future. The failure to form or maintain new business opportunities could significantly limit our ability to expand our operations and sales. Moreover, these new opportunities or investments require significant management time, involve a high degree of risk and will present significant challenges. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful or that we will realize appropriate returns on these activities. Our Laser Projectors are New and have Limited Market Penetration Our laser projectors have limited market penetration. Our future success will depend in significant part on our ability to generate demand for our laser projectors and to develop additional commercial applications that incorporate our laser projector technology. We cannot be certain that our product will succeed in the market, and if we fail to generate increased sales, our future results of operations will be adversely affected. We May be Unable to Adequately Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology The market for our laser projectors is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent product introductions. The introduction of products and services embodying new technology and the emergence of new industry standards may render our existing laser projectors obsolete and unmarketable if we are unable to adapt to change. A significant factor in our ability to grow and to remain competitive is our ability to successfully introduce new products and services that embody new technology, anticipate and incorporate evolving industry standards and achieve levels of functionality and prices acceptable to the market. If our laser projectors are unable to meet our customers’ needs or we are unable to keep pace with technological changes in the industry, our laser projectors could eventually become obsolete. We may be unable to allocate the funds necessary to improve our current products or introduce new products to address our customers’ needs and respond to technological change. If other companies develop more technologically advanced products, our competitive position relative to such companies would be harmed. Competitors or Third Parties May Infringe E&S Intellectual Property Throughout its history E&S has been awarded numerous patents. While competitors or third parties have not materially infringed our patents, we are entering the production stage of a new product, the 8 ESLP. We have a number of patents either issued or pending on this technology, but it represents a new field for us and may attract competitors with a risk of infringement and costly legal processes to defend our intellectual property rights which could adversely affect our business. Delays in New Product Introductions Could Negatively Affect Financial Performance During 2006 and into 2007, we have introduced and intend to introduce several important new products, including the ESLP. Further delays in introducing and delivering these products could reduce planned sales and profit contribution. Our Industry Is Undergoing Rapid Technological Changes, And Our Failure To Keep Up With Such Changes Could Cause Us To Lose Customers And Impede Our Ability To Attract New Customers Our success depends on our ability to compete in an industry that is highly competitive, with rapid technological advances and products that require constant improvement in both price and performance. We expect this trend to continue. If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing technology and products, then our revenues and growth rates could decline. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology as well as customer requirements and preferences, and our failure to keep up with such changes could cause us to lose customers and impede our ability to attract new customers. New technologies could reduce the competitiveness of our theater and projector products. We may be required to select one technology over another, but at a time when it would be impossible to predict with any certainty which technology will prove to be the most economic, efficient or capable of attracting customer usage. Subsequent technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our products and require upgrades or additional products that could be expensive or unfeasible. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological changes or customer preferences, we could lose market share or impede our ability to attract new customers and retain current customers. Resistance By Potential New Customers To Accept Our Products May Reduce Our Ability To Increase Our Revenue The expansion of our business will be dependent upon, among other things, the willingness of additional customers to accept our products and technologies. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the resistance of potential customers to change their current projectors or theater technologies, and to expend the capital necessary to purchase and implement our products and technology. The lack of customer acceptance would reduce our ability to increase our revenue. Our Sales Could Decline Substantially as a Result of Terrorist Attacks and Other Activities that Reduce the Willingness of Our Customers to Purchase Products The demand for our products and services is dependent upon new orders from customers operating various public attractions. If terrorist attacks or other activities decrease the attendance for our customers’ venues, the demand or willingness of our customers to purchase our products may decline and our revenue may decline substantially. Our Shareholders May Not Realize Certain Opportunities Because of the Anti-Takeover Effect of State Law The Utah Control Shares Acquisition Act provides that any person who acquires 20% or more of the outstanding voting shares of a publicly held Utah corporation will not have voting rights with respect to the acquired shares unless a majority of the disinterested shareholders of the corporation votes to grant such rights. This could deprive shareholders of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares or other advantages that large accumulations of stock would provide because anyone interested in acquiring 9 E&S could only do so with the cooperation of our board of directors and a majority of disinterested shareholders. Your Ability to Sell Your Stock May be Substantially Limited If we fail to meet any of the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq National Market, our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq National Market, we expect our common stock will be traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market if we meet the listing standards of that market or we will attempt to be traded on the OTC Bulletin Board or “pink sheets” maintained by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. The OTC Bulletin Board and pink sheets are generally considered less efficient markets than the Nasdaq National Market and the Nasdaq Capital Market. We May receive none or little of the remaining $5 Million in Escrow Related to the Sale of Assets to Rockwell Collins and the Laser Projector Agreement As part of the Asset Purchase Agreement and Laser Agreement, a total $5,000 remains in an escrow account to secure our indemnification obligations under the Asset Purchase Agreement and our delivery obligations under the Laser Agreement. There is no guarantee that we will receive these funds and if Rockwell Collins becomes entitled to a penalty under the Laser Agreement or indemnification under the Asset Purchase Agreement, we may receive none or little of the $5,000 remaining in escrow, which will reduce the amount of cash we have available in the future. If we do not deliver a motion-based ESLP to Rockwell Collins by December 31, 2007, Rockwell Collins has the right to begin accelerating monthly withdrawals from the escrow account in accordance with a formula prescribed by the Laser Agreement. Under the formula, the monthly withdrawals will total $1,000 over the year following December 31, 2007. If we do not deliver a motion-based ESLP by December 31, 2008, Rockwell Collins will have the right to withdraw up to an additional $2,000 from the escrow account. We Continue to be Exposed to Contingent Liabilities Relating to the Sale of our Simulation Business, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition In connection with the sale of our Simulation Business, we agreed to indemnify Rockwell Collins for any losses from breaches of the representations, warranties or covenants we made in the Asset Purchase Agreement that occur within certain periods after the closing. We have also agreed that certain indemnification obligations will be capped at certain amounts. For example, an indemnification claim by Rockwell Collins could result if Rockwell Collins suffers any damages arising out of the inaccuracy of any of our representations or if we fail to comply with a covenant or other agreement in the Asset Purchase Agreement. In addition, we have agreed to retain all liabilities relating to the Simulation Business that are not being expressly assumed by Rockwell Collins, and to indemnify Rockwell Collins for any claims or damages arising from such retained liabilities. The payment of any such indemnification obligations could adversely impact our cash resources following the completion of the sale of our simulator business and our ability to pursue other opportunities, including the development of our digital theater and laser projector businesses. We May Not Be Able to Fully Integrate Spitz into Our Operations Successfully We may experience difficulties in fully integrating Spitz’s business with ours. This could result in additional costs and loss of productivity that could materially affect our operations and financial results. 10 If We are Unable to Retain Certain Key Personnel and Hire New Highly Skilled Personnel, We May Not Be Able to Execute Our Business Plan We are substantially dependent on the continued services of certain key personnel. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to the Company and its operations. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented, highly skilled personnel. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our existing key employees and in attracting new key personnel, we may be unable to meet our business plan and as a result, our stock price may decline. 