Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. Any of the following risks could have material adverse effects on our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The below list of important factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. 10 Table of Contents If the Company’s raw materials or energy were to become unavailable or to significantly increase in price, the Company might not be able to timely produce products for our customers or maintain our profit levels. Quanex requires substantial amounts of raw materials, substantially all of which are purchased from outside sources. The Company does not have long-term contracts for the supply of most of our raw materials. The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers or interruptions in production by suppliers. For example, the Company experienced a steep increase in costs for steel and aluminum scrap in fiscal 2004 due to a global rebound in manufacturing in addition to increased demand from China and other consumers for scrap metal. In addition, the operation of the Company’s facilities requires substantial amounts of electric power and natural gas. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials could affect our ability to timely produce products for the Company’s customers. Although the Company has contractual arrangements with many of our customers that permit us to increase prices in response to increased raw material costs, in times of rapidly rising raw material prices the adjustments will lag the current market price creating material volatility in top and bottom line results. Portions of our business are generally cyclical in nature. Lowered vehicle production, fewer housing starts, reduced remodeling expenditures or weaknesses in the economy could significantly reduce our revenue, net earnings and cash flow. Demand for the Company’s products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. The Company’s business supports cyclical industries such as the automotive and construction industries. The demand for the Vehicular Products Segment’s products is largely dependent on the North American production level of vehicles. The markets for these products have historically been cyclical because new vehicle demand is dependent on, among other things, consumer spending and is tied closely to the overall strength of the economy. Declines in vehicle production could significantly reduce our net earnings. The segment’s sales are also impacted by retail inventory levels and their customers’ production schedules. If its OEM customers significantly reduce their inventory levels and reduce their orders from us, the segment’s performance could be impacted. The primary drivers of the Engineered Building Products and Aluminum Sheet Building Products segments are housing starts and remodeling expenditures. The building and construction industry is cyclical and seasonal, and product demand is based on numerous factors such as interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond our control. Declines in housing starts and remodeling expenditures due to such factors could significantly reduce the segments’ net earnings. The Company is subject to various environmental requirements, and compliance with, or liabilities under, existing or future environmental laws and regulations could significantly increase the Company’s costs of doing business. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment and the remediation of chemical contamination. To satisfy such requirements, the Company must make capital and other expenditures on an ongoing basis. For example, environmental agencies continue to develop regulations implementing the Federal Clean Air Act. Depending on the nature of the regulations adopted, the Company may be required to incur additional capital and other expenditures in the next several years for air pollution control equipment, to maintain or obtain operating permits and approvals, and to address other air emission-related issues. Future expenditures relating to environmental matters will necessarily depend upon the application to Quanex and its facilities of future regulations and government decisions. It is likely that the Company will be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards and the additional expenditures related to compliance with such standards. Furthermore, if the Company fails to comply with applicable environmental regulations, the Company could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. 11 Table of Contents Under applicable state and federal laws, the Company also may be responsible for, among other things, all or part of the costs required to remove or remediate wastes or hazardous substances at locations the Company has owned or operated at any time. The Company is currently involved in environmental investigations or remediation at several such locations. From time to time, the Company also has been alleged to be liable for all or part of the costs incurred to clean up third-party sites where it is alleged to have arranged for disposal of hazardous substances. While the Company has established reserves for such liabilities, such reserves may not be adequate to cover the ultimate cost of remedial measures required by environmental authorities. The discovery of previously unknown contamination, inadequate performance of a remedy or the imposition of new clean-up requirements at any site for which Quanex is responsible could require the Company to incur additional costs or become subject to significant new or increased liabilities. The Company may not be able to successfully identify, manage or integrate future acquisitions, and if the Company is unable to do so, it is unlikely to sustain its historical growth rates and profitability. Historically, Quanex has grown through a combination of internal growth and external expansion through acquisitions, such as its December 2003 acquisitions of TruSeal Technologies and MACSTEEL Monroe and its December 2004 acquisition of Mikron Industries. Although Quanex is actively pursuing its growth strategy both in its domestic target markets and overseas and expect to continue doing so in the future, the Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or, if it does, that it will be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business effectively and profitably into its existing operations. Integration of future acquired businesses could disrupt the Company’s business by diverting management’s attention away from day-to-day operations. Further, failure to successfully integrate any acquisition may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Consummating an acquisition could require the Company to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing. Additional equity financing could depress the market price of Quanex common stock. In addition, the Company’s ability to access the credit markets in the future to obtain additional financing, if needed, could be influenced by the its ability to meet current covenant requirements associated with its existing credit agreement, its credit rating, or other factors. The Company operates in competitive markets, and the Company’s business will suffer if it is unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may reduce its operating margins. The principal markets that Quanex serves are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, quality, price and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. The Company’s competition in the markets in which it participates comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than Quanex does and some of which have more established brand names in the markets Quanex serves. Any of these competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than the Company, develop products that are superior to the Company’s products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than the Company, or adapt more quickly than the Company to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Increased competition could force the Company to lower its prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to the Company, which could reduce its gross profit and net income. Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) have significant pricing leverage over suppliers and may be able to achieve price reductions over time, which will reduce the Company’s profits. The Company’s products are sold primarily to OEMs, and to a much lesser extent, sold through distributors. There is substantial and continuing pressure from OEMs in all industries to reduce the prices they pay to suppliers. Quanex attempts to manage such downward pricing pressure, while trying to preserve its business relationships with its OEM customers, by seeking to reduce its production costs through various measures, including purchasing raw materials and components at lower prices and implementing cost-effective process improvements. However, the Company’s suppliers may resist pressure to lower their prices and may seek to impose price increases. If the Company is unable to offset OEM price reductions through these measures, its gross margins and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, OEMs have substantial leverage in setting purchasing and payment terms, including the terms of accelerated payment programs under which payments are made prior to the account due date in return for an early payment discount. 12 Table of Contents The Company could lose customers and the related revenues due to the transfer of manufacturing capacity by its customers out of the United States to lower cost regions of the world. Manufacturing activity in the United States has been on the decline over the past several years. One of the reasons for this decline is the migration by U.S. manufacturers to other regions of the world that offer lower cost labor forces. The combined effect is that U.S. manufacturers can reduce product costs by manufacturing and assembling in other regions of the world and then importing those products to the United States. Some of the Company’s customers have shifted production to other regions of the world and there can be no assurance that this trend will not continue. The Company will lose customers and revenues if its customers locate in areas that the Company chooses not to serve or that it cannot economically serve. If the Company’s relationship with its employees were to deteriorate, the Company could be faced with labor shortages, disruptions or stoppages, which could shut down certain of its operations, reducing its revenue, net earnings, and cash flows. The Company’s operations rely heavily on its employees, and any labor shortage, disruption or stoppage caused by poor relations with its employees and/or renegotiation of labor contracts could shut down certain of its operations. Approximately 34% of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements which expire between 2006 and 2011. It is possible that the Company could become subject to additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions, or that work stoppages or other labor disturbances could occur in the future, any of which could impact financial results. Similarly, any failure to negotiate a new labor agreement when required might result in a work stoppage that could reduce our operating margins and income. In addition, many OEMs and their suppliers have unionized work forces. Work stoppages or slowdowns experienced by OEMs or their suppliers could result in slowdowns or closures of assembly plants where Quanex products are included in assembled vehicles. In the event that one or more of the Company’s customers experiences a material work stoppage, such work stoppage could prevent the customers from purchasing Quanex products. Changes in regulatory requirements or new technologies may render the Company’s products obsolete or less competitive. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies may render certain of the Company’s products obsolete or less competitive, preventing the Company from selling them at profitable prices, or at all. The Company’s ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-efficient basis will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. The Company’s business may, therefore, require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investments in research and development. The Company may not be able to achieve the technological advances necessary for it to remain competitive or certain of its products may become obsolete. The Company is also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. 13 Table of Contents Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of the Company’s manufacturing facilities could lead to production curtailments or shutdowns that prevent the Company from producing its products. An interruption in production capabilities at any of the Company’s facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in the Company’s inability to produce its products, which would reduce its sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition, Quanex generally manufactures its products only after receiving the order from the customer and thus does not hold large inventories. In the event of a stoppage in production at any of our manufacturing facilities, even if only temporary, or if Quanex experiences delays as a result of events that are beyond its control, delivery times could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to the Company’s customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. The Company has in the past and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Although the Company has obtained property damage and business interruption insurance, the Company may not have adequate insurance to compensate it for all losses that result from any of these events. The Company’s business involves complex manufacturing processes that may result in costly accidents or other disruptions of its operations. The Company’s business involves complex manufacturing processes. Some of these processes involve high pressures, temperatures, hot metal and other hazards that present certain safety risks to workers employed at its manufacturing facilities. Although the Company employs safety procedures in the design and operation of its facilities, the potential exists for accidents involving death or serious injury. The potential liability resulting from any such accident, to the extent not covered by insurance, could cause the Company to incur unexpected cash expenditures, thereby reducing the cash available to it to operate its business. Such an accident could disrupt operations at any of the Company’s facilities, which could adversely affect its ability to deliver product to its customers on a timely basis and to retain its current business. Flaws in the design or manufacture of the Company’s products could cause future product liability or warranty claims for which it does not have adequate insurance or affect its reputation among customers. The Company’s products are essential components in vehicles, buildings and other applications where problems in the design or manufacture of our products could result in property damage, personal injury or death. While the Company believes that its liability insurance is adequate to protect it from future product liability and warranty liabilities, its insurance may not cover all liabilities or be available in the future at a cost acceptable to the Company. In addition, if any of the Company’s products prove to be defective, it may be required in the future to participate in a recall involving such products. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage, if any, or a requirement to participate in any product recall, could significantly reduce the Company’s profits or negatively affect its reputation with customers. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance its existing products and services. The Company has continuing programs designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve its products. Quanex is expending resources for the development of new products in all of its segments. The successful development of its products and product enhancements are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: 1) unanticipated delays; 2) access to capital; 3) budget overruns; 4) technical problems; and 5) other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products. 14 Table of Contents Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, the Company cannot provide assurance that any of its product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. Failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget could harm the Company’s business and prospects. The Company has a risk that its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets may be impaired and result in a charge to income. The purchase method of accounting for business combinations requires the Company to make use of estimates and judgments to allocate the purchase price paid for acquisitions to the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets. The Company performs a goodwill impairment test annually as of August 31. In addition, goodwill would be tested more frequently if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events indicates that a potential impairment exists. The Company tests for impairment of its goodwill using a two-step approach as prescribed in SFAS 142. The first step of the Company’s goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value including assigned goodwill. The second step of the Company’s goodwill impairment test is required only in situations where the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value as determined in the first step. In such instances, the Company compares the implied fair value of goodwill to its carrying value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill. The Company primarily uses the present value of future cash flows to determine fair value and validates the result against the market approach. Future cash flows are typically based upon appropriate future periods for the businesses and an estimated residual value. Management judgment is required in the estimation of future operating results and to determine the appropriate residual values. The residual values are determined by reference to an exchange transaction in an existing market for that asset. Future operating results and residual values could reasonably differ from the estimates and could require a provision for impairment in a future period which would result in a charge to income from operations in the year of the impairment with a resulting decrease in our recorded net worth. The Company may not be able to protect its intellectual property. A significant amount of time, effort and expense is devoted to (a) custom engineering which qualifies our products for specific customer applications and (b) developing superior, proprietary process technology. The Company relies on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual commitments to protect its proprietary information. Despite the Company’s efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of the Company’s products or otherwise obtain and use the Company’s intellectual property. Any patents owned by the Company may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of the Company’s pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims the Company seeks, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of the Company’s proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. If the Company cannot protect its proprietary information against unauthorized use, it may not remain competitive. 15 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to repay or repurchase the principal amount of its debentures when required. At maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of Convertible Senior Debentures due 2034 (the Debentures) will become due and payable by the Company. In addition, on May 15 of 2011, 2014, 2019, 2024 and 2029 or if certain designated events occur, holders of the Debentures may require the Company to repurchase their Debentures for cash. If the holders require Quanex to repurchase the Debentures or in the event a fundamental change occurs, the Company will be required to purchase all or any part of the holder’s Debentures at a purchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including contingent interest and additional interest, if any) to, but not including, the date of purchase. It is possible that Quanex will not have sufficient funds at the time of repurchase to make the required repurchases of the Debentures or that restrictions in its other indebtedness may not allow these repurchases. The Company’ failure to purchase the Debentures would be a default under the indenture that governs them. The Company has the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of its issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, as well as the conversion of the debentures or any other securities convertible into equity securities, would result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in Quanex. The Company is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value per share, in one or more series, which may give other stockholders dividend, conversion, voting, and liquidation rights, among other rights, which may be superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. The Company’s board of directors has the authority to issue, without vote or action of stockholders, shares of preferred stock in one or more series, and has the ability to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of any such series. Any such series of preferred stock could contain dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, redemption prices, liquidation preferences or other rights superior to the rights of holders of our common stock. The Company’s board of directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred series, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, the Company is authorized, by prior shareholder approval, to issue up to 50,000,000 shares of common stock, $.50 par value per share, of which 37,031,301 shares were outstanding as of December 11, 2006. Quanex is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 