Item 1A. Risk Factors The following is a description of what we consider our key challenges and risks: Financing future acquisitions may be difficult. The principal challenge facing the Company is the necessity to obtain financing in order to expand gaming operations, generate cash flow, and service debt obligations. There can be no assurance that such financing will be obtained. If our key personnel leave us, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is largely dependent upon the efforts and skills of our key executive officers. The loss of the services of any key executive officer could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we would be able to attract and hire suitable replacements in the event of any such loss of services. We currently have employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer, Senior Vice President/General Counsel/Chief Compliance Officer, and our Executive Vice President/Chief Financial Officer. Indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. As of April 30, 2010, we had $10.0 million of indebtedness outstanding, consisting of a $6.0 million interest only promissory note which matures on June 30, 2013 and a $4.0 million debt for the Washington properties which matures on May 12, 2012. Although we have substantially reduced our debt, our indebtedness could have important consequences and significant effects on our business and future operations. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business; · limit our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general operating requirements; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or greater resources; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. The occurrence of any one of these events or conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, ability to service or otherwise satisfy our obligations. We will require cash to service our indebtedness and fund our gaming operations. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to fund our gaming operations will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from our gaming operations and borrow or refinance $4.0 million by May 12, 2012 and $6.0 million by June 30, 2013. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance that is subject to many economic, competitive, regulatory and business factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations, we will need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments or seek to raise additional capital. These measures may not be available to us or, if available, they may not be sufficient to enable us to satisfy our obligations and may restrict our ability to pay operating expenses. If our cash flow is insufficient and we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives, we may not be able to service our debt obligations or fund our gaming operations. We face significant competition from other gaming operations that could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. There is intense competition among companies in the gaming industry, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do. We compete with numerous casinos of varying quality and size in market areas where our properties are located. The gaming business is characterized by competitors that vary considerably by their size, quality of facilities, number of operations, brand identities, marketing and growth strategies, financial strength and capabilities, level of amenities, management talent and geographic diversity. In most markets, we compete directly with other casino facilities in the immediate and surrounding market areas. If our competitors operate more successfully, if competitors' properties are enhanced or expanded, or if additional casinos are established in and around locations in which we conduct business, we may lose market share. The expansion of casino gaming in or near any geographic area from which we attract or expect to attract a significant number of our customers could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 6 We are subject to extensive governmental gaming regulation that could adversely affect us. We could be prevented from pursuing future development projects due to changes in the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal or local laws) that apply to gaming facilities or the inability of us or our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners to obtain or retain gaming regulatory licenses. The gaming industry is highly regulated and we must maintain our licenses in order to continue our operations. Each of our gaming operations is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction where located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. Certain jurisdictions empower their regulators to investigate participation by licensees in gaming outside their jurisdiction and require access to and periodic reports concerning the gaming activities. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities have broad powers with respect to the licensing of casino operations and may revoke, suspend, condition or limit our gaming or other licenses, impose substantial fines and take other actions, any one of which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The rapidly changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, the failure of us, or any of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. Our business is subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot ensure that we will be able to comply with or conduct business in accordance with applicable regulations. We could fail to monetize recorded assets. The Company has receivables that are projected to be collected. If the Company is not able to collect or monetize these assets timely then the lack of such collection may have a negative impact on the Company’s projected cash flow. The occurrence of monetizing our recorded assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects, ability to service or otherwise satisfy our obligations. There are significant risks in the development and management of commercial and Native American Casinos that could adversely affect our financial results. The development and management of casinos require the satisfaction of various conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The failure to satisfy any of such conditions may significantly delay the completion of a project or prevent a project's completion altogether. The opening of any facility will be contingent upon, among other things, the receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals and authorizations, the completion of construction and the hiring and training of sufficient personnel. The scope of the approvals to construct and open a casino is extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of such casino. No assurance can be given that development activities will begin or will be completed, or that the budget for such a project will not be exceeded, or that we will have the continuing support of the community. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. 7 Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, and unanticipated cost increases. Delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening of any casino development. In addition, once developed, no assurances can be given that we will be able to manage the casino on a profitable basis or to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors to make the operation profitable. With each project, we are subject to the risk that our investment may be lost if the project cannot obtain adequate financing to complete development and open the casino successfully. In some cases, we may be forced to provide more financing than originally planned in order to complete development, increasing the risk to us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 