Item 1A: Risk Factors The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger’s business that could adversely affect its financial position or results of operations. Weakness in the United States and International economies could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth. Economic and industry trends affect Grainger’s business environments. Economic downturns can cause customers to idle or close facilities, delay purchases and otherwise reduce their ability to purchase Grainger’s products and services as well as their ability to make full and timely payments. Thus, a significant or prolonged slowdown in economic activity could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth and results of operations. The recent global economic crisis has had a negative effect on Grainger’s sales and could continue to do so into the future, however, the duration of this or any other economic downturn cannot be predicted. The facilities maintenance industry is highly fragmented, and changes in competition could result in a decreased demand for Grainger’s products and services. There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves, from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses and retail enterprises. Competitive pressures could adversely affect Grainger’s sales and profitability. Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect operating margins. Some of Grainger’s products contain significant amounts of commodity-priced materials, such as steel, copper, or oil, and are subject to price changes based upon fluctuations in the commodities market. Grainger’s ability to pass on increases in costs depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along costs increases could result in lower operating margins. In addition, higher prices could impact demand for these products resulting in lower sales volumes. Unexpected product shortages could negatively impact customer relationships, resulting in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger’s competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from approximately 3,000 key suppliers, no one of which accounts for more than 5% of purchases. Historically, no significant difficulty has been encountered with respect to sources of supply, however, economic downturns can adversely affect a supplier’s ability to manufacture or deliver products. If Grainger were to experience difficulty in obtaining products, there could be a short-term adverse effect on results of operations and a longer-term adverse effect on customer relationships and Grainger’s reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with key vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could, in turn, adversely affect results of operations. 5 The addition of new product lines could impact future sales growth. Grainger, from time to time, expands the breadth of its offerings by increasing the number of products it distributes. In 2006, Grainger launched a multiyear product line expansion program. The continued success of the expansion program is expected to be a driver of growth in 2009 and beyond. The success of these expansions will depend on Grainger’s ability to accurately forecast market demand, obtain products from suppliers and effectively integrate these products into the supply chain. As such, there is a risk that the product line expansion program will not deliver the expected results which could negatively impact anticipated future sales growth. Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of Grainger’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of its business. Although Grainger’s information systems are protected with robust backup systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures and other problems. If critical information systems fail or are otherwise unavailable, Grainger’s ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses and maintain the security of Company and customer data could be adversely affected. In order to compete, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on results of operations. In order to compete and have continued growth, Grainger must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. Grainger competes to hire employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Grainger’s operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Fluctuations in foreign currency could have an adverse effect on reported results of operations. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on sales, future costs or on future cash flows from international operations, and could adversely affect reported financial performance. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 