Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors below should be carefully considered. WEATHER CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE OUR REVENUES TO VARY FROM YEAR TO YEAR. Our revenues vary from year to year, depending on weather conditions. We estimate that approximately 75% of our annual gas sales are temperature sensitive. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of gas we sell in any year, which would reduce our revenues and profits. Our weather normalization clause in our rate tariffs, approved by the Kentucky Public Service Commission, only partially mitigates this risk. We adjust our rates to residential and small non-residential customers to reflect variations from thirty-year average weather for our November through March billing cycles. CHANGES IN FEDERAL REGULATIONS COULD REDUCE THE AVAILABILITY OR INCREASE THE COST OF OUR INTERSTATE GAS SUPPLY. We purchase almost all of our gas supply from interstate sources. For example, in our fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, approximately 99% of our gas supply was purchased from interstate sources. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates the transmission of the natural gas we receive from interstate sources, and it could increase our transportation costs or decrease our available pipeline capacity by changing its regulatory policies in a manner that could increase transportation rates or reduce pipeline or storage capacity available to us. OUR GAS SUPPLY DEPENDS UPON THE AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION CAPACITY. We purchase almost all of our gas supply from interstate sources. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system. A decrease in interstate pipeline capacity available to us or an increase in competition for interstate pipeline transportation service could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas. OUR CUSTOMERS ARE ABLE TO ACQUIRE NATURAL GAS WITHOUT USING OUR DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. Our larger customers can obtain their natural gas supply by purchasing their natural gas directly from interstate suppliers, local producers or marketers and arranging for alternate transportation of the gas to their plants or facilities. Customers may undertake such a by-pass of our distribution system in order to achieve lower prices for their gas service. Our larger customers who are in close proximity to alternative supply would be most likely to consider taking this action. This potential to by-pass our distribution system creates a risk of the loss of large customers and thus could result in lower revenues and profits. WE FACE REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AT THE STATE LEVEL. We are regulated by the Kentucky Public Service Commission. The majority of our revenues are generated by our regulated segment. We face the risk that the Kentucky Public Service Commission may fail to grant us adequate and timely rate increases or may take other actions that would cause a reduction in our income from operations, such as limiting our ability to pass on to our customers our increased costs of natural gas. Such regulatory actions would decrease our revenues and our profitability. VOLATILITY IN THE PRICE OF NATURAL GAS COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITS. Significant increases in the price of natural gas will likely cause our retail customers to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. Any decrease in the volume of gas we sell that is caused by such actions will reduce our revenues and profits. Higher prices could also make it more difficult to add new customers. Natural gas prices have risen significantly in the past year. WE DO NOT GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH FLOWS TO MEET ALL OUR CASH NEEDS. Historically, we have made large capital expenditures in order to finance the maintenance, expansion and upgrading of our distribution and transmission system. As a result, we have funded a portion of our cash needs through borrowing and by offering new securities into the market. For example, by a combination of increasing our borrowing under our short-term line of credit and sales of securities through our dividend reinvestment plan and other offerings, we generated cash in the amount of $1,764,000 in fiscal 2006, $1,987,000 in fiscal 2005 and $4,515,000 in fiscal 2004. Although cash needs vary from year to year, we consider these years indicative of our future needs for external cash. Our dependence on external sources of financing creates the risks that our profits could decrease as a result of high capital costs and that lenders could impose onerous and unfavorable terms on us as a condition to granting us loans. We also risk the possibility that we may not be able to secure external sources of cash necessary to fund our operations. SUBSTANTIAL OPERATIONAL RISKS ARE INVOLVED IN OPERATING A NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION, PIPELINE AND STORAGE SYSTEM AND SUCH OPERATIONAL RISKS COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND INCREASE EXPENSES. There are substantial risks associated with the operation of a natural gas distribution, pipeline and storage system, such as operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions caused by events beyond our control. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides or other similar events beyond our control. These risks could result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage and environmental pollution, which in turn could lead to substantial financial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Liabilities incurred that are not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions to the operation of our gas distribution, transmission or storage system caused by such an event could reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. HURRICANES OR OTHER EXTREME WEATHER COULD INTERRUPT OUR GAS SUPPLY AND INCREASE NATURAL GAS PRICES. Hurricanes or other extreme weather could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas and increased supply costs for us and higher prices for our customers. CROSS-DEFAULT PROVISIONS IN OUR BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS INCREASE THE CONSEQUENCES OF A DEFAULT ON OUR PART. Each indenture under which our outstanding debt has been issued, and the loan agreement for our bank line of credit, contains a cross-default provision which provides that we will be in default under such indenture or loan agreement in the event of certain defaults under any of the other indentures or loan agreement. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under one of our debt agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under all of our debt agreements and obliged in such instance to satisfy all of our then-outstanding indebtedness. In such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us. OUR BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS INCLUDE VARIOUS NEGATIVE COVENANTS THAT RESTRICT OUR ACTIVITIES. Our bank line of credit restricts us from: o merging with another entity, o selling a material portion of our assets other than in the ordinary course of business, o issuing stock which in the aggregate exceeds thirty-five percent (35%) of our outstanding shares of common stock, and o having any person hold more than twenty percent (20%) of our outstanding shares of common stock, without bank approval or repaying the line of credit. We are prevented from assuming additional mortgage indebtedness in excess of $5,000,000 or from paying dividends on our common stock unless our consolidated shareholders' equity minus the value of our intangible assets exceeds $25,800,000. These negative covenants create the risk that we may be unable to take advantage of business and financing opportunities as they arise. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 