Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors below should be carefully considered. WEATHER CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE OUR REVENUES TO VARY FROM YEAR TO YEAR. Our revenues vary from year to year, depending on weather conditions. We estimate that approximately 77% of our annual gas sales are temperature sensitive. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of gas we sell in any year, which would reduce our revenues and profits. The weather normalization provision in our tariff, approved by the Kentucky Public Service Commission, only partially mitigates this risk. Under our weather normalization provision in our tariff, we adjust our rates for our residential and small non-residential customers to reflect variations from thirty-year average weather for our December through April billing cycles. CHANGES IN FEDERAL REGULATIONS COULD REDUCE THE AVAILABILITY OR INCREASE THE COST OF OUR INTERSTATE GAS SUPPLY. We purchase almost all of our gas supply from interstate sources. For example, in our fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, approximately 99% of our gas supply was purchased from interstate sources. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates the transmission of the natural gas we receive from interstate sources, and it could increase our transportation costs or decrease our available pipeline capacity by changing its regulatory policies. Additionally, federal legislation could restrict or limit drilling which could decrease the supply of available natural gas. OUR GAS SUPPLY DEPENDS UPON THE AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION CAPACITY. We purchase almost all of our gas supply from interstate sources. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system. A decrease in interstate pipeline capacity available to us or an increase in competition for interstate pipeline transportation service could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas. OUR CUSTOMERS ARE ABLE TO BY-PASS OUR DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS. Our larger customers can obtain their natural gas supply by purchasing directly from interstate suppliers, local producers or marketers and arranging for alternate transportation of the gas to their plants or facilities. Customers for whom we transport natural gas could by-pass our transportation system to directly connect to interstate pipelines or other transportation providers. Customers may undertake such by-passes in order to achieve lower prices for their gas and/or transportation services. Our larger customers who are in close proximity to alternative supply would be most likely to consider taking this action. This potential to by-pass our distribution and transportation systems creates a risk of the loss of large customers and thus could result in lower revenues and profits. WE FACE REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY AT THE STATE LEVEL. We are regulated by the Kentucky Public Service Commission. Our regulated segment generates a significant portion of our operating revenues. We face the risk that the Kentucky Public Service Commission may fail to grant us adequate and timely rate increases or may take other actions that would cause a reduction in our income from operations, such as limiting our ability to pass on to our customers our increased costs of natural gas. Such regulatory actions would decrease our revenues and our profitability. VOLATILITY IN THE PRICE OF NATURAL GAS COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITS. Significant increases in the price of natural gas will likely cause our regulated retail customers to continue to conserve or switch to alternate sources of energy. Any decrease in the volume of gas we sell that is caused by such actions will reduce our revenues and profits. Higher prices also make it more difficult to add new customers. Significant decreases in the price of natural gas will likely cause our non-regulated segment margins to decrease. INTERSTATE AND OTHER PIPELINES DELTA INTERCONNECTS WITH CAN IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON THEIR PIPELINE. The pipelines interconnected to Delta's system are owned and operated by third parties who can impose restrictions on the quantity and quality of natural gas they will accept into their pipelines. To the extent natural gas on Delta's system does not conform to these restrictions, Delta could experience a decrease in volumes sold or transported to these pipelines. FUTURE PROFITABILITY OF THE NON-REGULATED SEGMENT IS DEPENDENT ON A FEW INDUSTRIAL AND OTHER LARGE USE CUSTOMERS. Our larger non-regulated customers are primarily industrial and other large use customers. Fluctuations in the gas requirements of these customers can have a significant impact on the profitability of the non-regulated segment. 9 WE RELY ON ACCESS TO CAPITAL TO MAINTAIN LIQUIDITY. To the extent that internally generated cash coupled with short-term borrowings under our bank line of credit is not sufficient for our operating cash requirements and normal capital expenditures, we may need to obtain additional financing. Our access to funds under our bank line of credit is dependent on the liquidity of the lender, Branch Banking & Trust Company. Additionally, market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our access to capital markets. Such disruptions could include: economic downturns, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company, general capital market conditions, market price for natural gas, terrorist attacks or the overall health of the energy industry. In 2011, although our bank line of credit was used for financing on an interim basis, cash provided by operating activity was sufficient to meet our capital needs. POOR INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE OF PENSION PLAN HOLDINGS AND OTHER FACTORS IMPACTING PENSION PLAN COSTS COULD UNFAVORABLY IMPACT OUR LIQUIDITY AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our cost of providing a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan is dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plan. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could be required to fund our plan with additional significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CREDIT RISKS OF CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS WITH WHOM WE DO BUSINESS. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, customers and others with whom we do business could impair the ability of these customers and others to pay for our services or fulfill their contractual obligations or cause them to delay such payments or obligations. We depend on these customers and others to remit payments on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. SUBSTANTIAL OPERATIONAL RISKS ARE INVOLVED IN OPERATING A NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION, PIPELINE AND STORAGE SYSTEM AND SUCH OPERATIONAL RISKS COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND INCREASE EXPENSES. There are substantial risks associated with the operation of a natural gas distribution, transportation and storage system, such as operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions caused by events beyond our control. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of pipeline and storage facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides or other similar events beyond our control. These risks could result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage and environmental pollution, which in turn could lead to substantial financial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Liabilities incurred that are not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions to the operation of our gas distribution, transmission or storage system caused by such an event could reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. HURRICANES, EXTREME WEATHER OR WELL-HEAD DISASTERS COULD DISRUPT OUR GAS SUPPLY AND INCREASE NATURAL GAS PRICES. Hurricanes, extreme weather or well-head disasters could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas and increased supply costs for us and higher prices for our customers. Such events could also result in new governmental regulations or rules that limit production or raise production costs. CROSS-DEFAULT PROVISIONS IN OUR BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS INCREASE THE CONSEQUENCES OF A DEFAULT ON OUR PART. Indentures under which our outstanding debt has been issued and the loan agreements for our bank line of credit, contain a cross-default provision which provides that we will be in default under such indenture or loan agreement in the event of certain defaults under any of the other indentures or loan agreements. Accordingly, should an event of default occur under one of our debt agreements, we face the prospect of being in default under all of our debt agreements and obliged in such instance to satisfy all of our then-outstanding indebtedness. In such an event, we might not be able to obtain alternative financing or, if we are able to obtain such financing, we might not be able to obtain it on terms acceptable to us. 10 OUR BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS INCLUDE VARIOUS NEGATIVE COVENANTS THAT RESTRICT OUR ACTIVITIES. Without bank approval or repaying the bank line of credit, our bank line of credit restricts us from: · merging with another entity, · selling a material portion of our assets other than in the ordinary course of business, · issuing stock which in the aggregate exceeds thirty-five percent (35%) of our outstanding shares of common stock, and · having any person or group of related persons hold more than twenty percent (20%) of our outstanding shares of common stock. Our 7.00% Debentures and 5.75% Insured Quarterly Notes restrict us from: · assuming additional secured indebtedness in excess of $5,000,000, unless we secure our 7.00% Debentures and 5.75% Insured Quarterly Notes equally with the additional secured indebtedness, and · paying dividends on or repurchasing our common stock unless our consolidated shareholders’ equity minus the value of our intangible assets exceed $25,800,000 after a dividend is paid or repurchase is made. These negative covenants create the risk that we may be unable to take advantage of business and financing opportunities as they arise. NEW LAWS OR REGULATIONS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL POSITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR CASH FLOWS. Changes in laws and regulations, including new accounting standards and tax law, could change the way in which we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Additionally, governing bodies may choose to re-interpret laws and regulations. These changes could have a negative impact on our financial position, cash flows, results of operations or access to capital. CLIMATE CHANGE LEGISLATION MAY POSE NEW FINANCIAL OR REGULATORY RISKS. A number of proposals to limit greenhouse gas emissions are pending at the regional, federal, and international levels. These proposals, if enacted and made applicable to us, may require us to measure and potentially limit greenhouse gas emissions from our utility operations and our customers or purchase allowances for such emissions. While we cannot predict the extent of these limitations or when or if they will become effective, the adoption of such proposals could: · increase utility costs related to operations, energy efficiency activities and compliance, · affect the demand for natural gas, and · increase the prices we charge our utility customers. Unless we are able to timely recover such impacts from customers through the regulatory process, costs associated with any such regulatory or legislative changes could adversely affect Delta’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 