Item 1A. Risk Factors The risk factors below should be carefully considered. WEATHER CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE OUR REVENUES TO VARY FROM YEAR TO YEAR. Our revenues vary from year to year, depending on weather conditions. We estimate that approximately 71% of our annual gas sales are temperature sensitive. As a result, mild winter temperatures can cause a decrease in the amount of gas we sell in any year, which would reduce our revenues and profits. The weather normalization provision in our tariff, approved by the Kentucky Public Service Commission, only partially mitigates this risk. Under our weather normalization provision in our tariff, we adjust our rates for our residential and small non-residential customers to reflect variations from thirty-year average weather for our December through April billing cycles. CHANGES IN FEDERAL REGULATIONS COULD REDUCE THE AVAILABILITY OR INCREASE THE COST OF OUR INTERSTATE GAS SUPPLY. We purchase almost all of our gas supply from interstate sources. For example, in our fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, approximately 99% of our gas supply was purchased from interstate sources. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates the transmission of the natural gas we receive from interstate sources, and it could increase our transportation costs or decrease our available pipeline capacity by changing its regulatory policies. Additionally, federal legislation could restrict or limit drilling which could decrease the supply of available natural gas. A decrease in available pipeline capacity or decrease in natural gas available to us could result in a loss of customers and decrease in profits. OUR GAS SUPPLY DEPENDS UPON THE AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION CAPACITY. We purchase almost all of our gas supply from interstate sources. Interstate pipeline companies transport the gas to our system. A decrease in interstate pipeline capacity available to us or an increase in competition for interstate pipeline transportation service could reduce our normal interstate supply of gas. A decrease in our normal interstate supply of gas could result in a loss of customers and decrease in profits. OUR CUSTOMERS ARE ABLE TO BY-PASS OUR DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS. Our larger customers can obtain their natural gas supply by purchasing directly from interstate suppliers, local producers or marketers and arranging for alternate transportation of the gas to their plants or facilities. Customers for whom we transport natural gas could by-pass our transportation system to directly connect to interstate pipelines or other transportation providers. Customers may undertake such by-passes in order to achieve lower prices for their gas and/or transportation services. Our larger customers who are in close proximity to alternative supply would be most likely to consider taking this action. This potential to by-pass our distribution and transportation systems creates a risk of the loss of large customers and thus could result in lower revenues and profits. ACTIONS BY OUR REGULATORS COULD DECREASE FUTURE PROFITABILITY. We are regulated by the Kentucky Public Service Commission. Our regulated segment generates a significant portion of our operating revenues. We face the risk that the Kentucky Public Service Commission may fail to grant us adequate and timely rate increases or may take other actions that would cause a reduction in our income from operations, such as limiting our ability to pass on to our customers our increased costs of natural gas. Such regulatory actions would decrease our revenues and our profitability. Additionally, our consolidated financial statements reflect the application of regulatory accounting standards by our regulated segment. Our regulated segment has recognized regulatory assets representing costs incurred in prior periods that are probable of recovery from customers in future rates. Disallowance of such costs in future proceedings before the Kentucky Public Service Commission could require us to write-off regulatory assets, which could have a material impact on our income and consolidated financial statements. 10 VOLATILITY IN PRICES COULD REDUCE OUR PROFITS. Significant increases in the price of natural gas will likely cause our regulated retail customers to increase conservation or switch to alternate sources of energy. Any decrease in the volume of gas we sell that is caused by such actions will reduce our revenues and profits. Higher prices also make it more difficult to add new customers. Significant decreases in the price of natural gas will likely cause our non-regulated segment margins to decrease. The price of natural gas liquids is determined by a national unregulated market, and decreases in the price would cause a decrease in our non-regulated gross margins. INTERSTATE AND OTHER PIPELINES DELTA INTERCONNECTS WITH CAN IMPOSE RESTRICTIONS ON THEIR PIPELINE. The pipelines interconnected to Delta's system are owned and operated by third parties who can impose restrictions on the quantity and quality of natural gas they will accept into their pipelines. To the extent natural gas on Delta's system does not conform to these restrictions, Delta could experience a decrease in volumes sold or transported to these pipelines. FUTURE PROFITABILITY OF THE NON-REGULATED SEGMENT IS DEPENDENT ON A FEW INDUSTRIAL AND OTHER LARGE USE CUSTOMERS. Our larger non-regulated customers are primarily industrial and other large use customers. Fluctuations in the gas requirements of these customers can have a significant impact on the profitability of the non-regulated segment. WE RELY ON ACCESS TO CAPITAL TO MAINTAIN LIQUIDITY. To the extent that internally generated cash coupled with short-term borrowings under our bank line of credit is not sufficient for our operating cash requirements and normal capital expenditures, we may need to obtain additional financing. Additionally, market disruptions may increase our cost of borrowing or adversely affect our access to capital markets. Such disruptions could include: economic downturns, the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company, general capital market conditions, market price for natural gas, terrorist attacks or the overall health of the energy industry. There is no guarantee we could obtain needed capital in the future. POOR INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE OF PENSION PLAN HOLDINGS AND OTHER FACTORS IMPACTING PENSION PLAN COSTS COULD UNFAVORABLY IMPACT OUR LIQUIDITY AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our cost of providing a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan is dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding level of the plan, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plan. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting our costs as listed above, we could be required to fund our plan with additional significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CREDIT RISKS OF CUSTOMERS AND OTHERS WITH WHOM WE DO BUSINESS. Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, customers and others with whom we do business could impair the ability of these customers and others to pay for our services or fulfill their contractual obligations or cause them to delay such payments or obligations. We depend on these customers and others to remit payments on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. 11 SUBSTANTIAL OPERATIONAL RISKS ARE INVOLVED IN OPERATING A NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION, TRANSPORTATION, LIQUIDS EXTRACTION AND STORAGE SYSTEM AND SUCH OPERATIONAL RISKS COULD REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND INCREASE EXPENSES. There are substantial risks associated with the operation of a natural gas distribution, transportation, liquids extraction and storage system, such as operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions caused by events beyond our control. These include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, the performance of pipeline and storage facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, landslides or other similar events beyond our control. These risks could result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental pollution, which in turn could lead to substantial financial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Liabilities incurred that are not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, interruptions to the operation of our gas distribution, transmission or storage system caused by such an event could reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. HURRICANES, EXTREME WEATHER OR WELL-HEAD DISASTERS COULD DISRUPT OUR GAS SUPPLY AND INCREASE NATURAL GAS PRICES. Hurricanes, extreme weather or well-head disasters could damage production or transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas, increased supply costs for us and higher prices for our customers. Such events could also result in new governmental regulations or rules that limit production or raise production costs. OUR BORROWING ARRANGEMENTS INCLUDE VARIOUS FINANCIAL AND NEGATIVE COVENANTS AND A PREPAYMENT PENALTY THAT COULD RESTRICT OUR ACTIVITIES. Our bank line of credit and Series A Notes contain financial covenants. Noncompliance with these covenants can make the obligations immediately due and payable. If we breach any of the financial covenants under these agreements, our debt repayment obligations under the bank line of credit and Series A Notes could be accelerated. In such event, we may not be able to refinance, repay all our indebtedness, pay dividends or have sufficient liquidity to meet our operating and capital expenditure requirements, all of which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, a default on the performance of any single obligation incurred in connection with our borrowings, or a default on other indebtedness that exceeds $2,500,000, simultaneously creates an event of default with the bank line of credit and the Series A Notes. Additionally, our bank line of credit and Series A Notes contain various negative covenants and a prepayment penalty which create a risk that we may be unable to take advantage of business and financing opportunities as they arise. OUR LONG-TERM DEBT ARRANGEMENTS LIMIT THE AMOUNT OF DIVIDENDS WE MAY PAY AND OUR REPURCHASE OF STOCK. Under the terms of our 4.26% Series A Notes, the aggregate amount we may pay in dividends on our common stock and in repurchase of our common stock may not exceed the sum of $15,000,000 and our cumulative net income after September 30, 2011. Between September 30, 2011 and June 30, 2012, we paid $3,575,000 in dividends, repurchased no stock and have had cumulative net income of $6,662,000. Consequently, as of June 30, 2012 we had the ability to pay up to $18,087,000 in dividends and for the repurchase of our common stock. However, if we fail to generate sufficient net income in the future, our ability to continue to pay our regular quarterly dividend may be impaired and the value of our common stock would likely decline. A SECURITY BREACH COULD DISRUPT OUR IT SYSTEMS, INTERRUPT THE NATURAL GAS SERVICE WE PROVIDE TO OUR CUSTOMERS, COMPROMISE THE SAFETY OF OUR NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION, TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE SYSTEMS OR EXPOSE CONFIDENTIAL PERSONAL INFORMATION. Security breaches of our information technology infrastructure, including cyber-attacks and cyber terrorism, could lead to IT system disruptions or shutdowns, result in the interruption of our ability to provide natural gas to our customers or compromise the safety of our distribution, transmission and storage systems. If such an attack or security breach were to occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, such an attack could affect our ability to service our indebtedness, our ability to raise capital and our future growth opportunities. 12 Additionally, the protection of customer, employee, vendor, investor and company data is critical to us. A breakdown or a breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of individually identifiable customer or other sensitive data could occur and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition. Such a breakdown or breach could also materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such risks. There is no guarantee that the procedures that we have implemented to protect against unauthorized access to secured data are adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches. FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN AN APPROPRIATELY QUALIFIED WORKFORCE COULD UNFAVORABLY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Certain events, such as an aging workforce, mismatch of skill sets to complement future needs, or unavailability of future resources, may lead to increased operational risks and costs. As a result of these events, we could face lack of resources knowledgeable about the natural gas industry and a lengthy time period associated with skill development and knowledge transfer. Failure to address this risk may result in increased operational and safety risks as well as increased costs. Even if we have reasonable plans in place to address succession planning and workforce training, we cannot control the future availability of qualified labor. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our financial position or results of operations could be negatively affected. NEW LAWS OR REGULATIONS COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL POSITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR CASH FLOWS. Changes in laws and regulations, including new accounting standards, adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards and tax law, could change the way in which we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Additionally, governing bodies may choose to re-interpret laws and regulations. These changes could have a negative impact on our financial position, cash flows, results of operations or access to capital. CLIMATE CHANGE LEGISLATION MAY POSE NEW FINANCIAL OR REGULATORY RISKS. A number of proposals to limit greenhouse gas emissions are pending at the regional, federal, and international levels. These proposals, if enacted and made applicable to us, may require us to measure and potentially limit greenhouse gas emissions from our utility operations and our customers or purchase allowances for such emissions. While we cannot predict the extent of these limitations or when or if they will become effective, the adoption of such proposals could: · increase utility costs related to operations, energy efficiency activities and compliance, · affect the demand for natural gas, and · increase the prices we charge our utility customers. Unless we are able to timely recover the costs of such impacts from customers through the regulatory process, costs associated with any such regulatory or legislative changes could adversely affect Delta's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 