RISK FACTORS Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, in evaluating the Company and its business before purchasing our securities. In particular, prospective investors should note that this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by such statements. The factors listed below represent certain important factors which we believe could cause such results to differ. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET AND WE CANNOT PREDICT WHEN OR IF EVER IT WILL BE LISTED ON ANY NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE. Due to our past failure to comply with the United States Securities Laws, our common stock was suspended from trading on the Nasdaq National Market in December 2000. Current pricing information on our common stock has been available in the "pink sheets" published by National Quotation Bureau, LLC. The "pink sheets" is an over-the-counter market which generally provides significantly less liquidity than established stock exchanges or the Nasdaq National Market, and quotes for stocks included in the "pink sheets" are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely in the "pink sheets" may be difficult to obtain, and shareholders may find it difficult to resell their shares. In order to be re-listed, we will need to meet certain listing requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet such listing requirements. FAILURE BY US TO ADHERE TO OUR ADMINISTRATIVE AGREEMENT WITH THE DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY COULD RESULT IN OUR DEBARMENT FROM DOING BUSINESS WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. On April 5, 2005, the Company announced that it had reached an administrative agreement with the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), a component of the US Department of Defense (DOD), which provides that RFI will not be debarred from doing business with the U.S. Government entities as long as RFI maintains its compliance program and adheres to the terms of the administrative agreement. If RFI fails to maintain its compliance program or RFI or the Company fails to adhere to the terms of the administrative agreement, the DLA could debar the Company from doing business with U.S. Government entities. OUR BUSINESS IS BASED ON TECHNOLOGY THAT IS NOT PROTECTED BY PATENT OR OTHER RIGHTS. 10 The technology and designs underlying our products are unprotected by patent rights. Our future success is dependent primarily on unpatented trade secrets and on the innovative skills, technological expertise and management abilities of our employees. Because we do not have patent rights in our products, our technology may not preclude or inhibit competitors from producing products that have identical performance as our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any protected trade secret could ultimately be proven valid if challenged. Any such challenge, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources and, if successful, require us to pay monetary damages. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. Many of these competitors offer a range of products in areas other than those in which we compete, which may make such competitors more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, general purchasing organizations and other potential customers. In addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and offer a range of products broader than our products. Some of the companies with which we now compete or may compete in the future have or may have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical and personnel resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. OUR DELAY OR INABILITY TO OBTAIN ANY NECESSARY US OR FOREIGN REGULATORY CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS FOR OUR PRODUCTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS. Our medical imaging products, with the exception of certain veterinary lines, are the subject of a high level of regulatory oversight. Any delay in our obtaining or our inability to obtain any necessary US or foreign regulatory approvals for new products could harm our business and prospects. There is a limited risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified which could create delays in shipping our product, pending re-approval. Medical devices cannot be marketed in the US without clearance or approval by the FDA. Our Medical Systems Group businesses must be operated in compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing Practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. Our manufacturing facilities and business practices are subject to periodic regulatory audits and quality certifications and we do self audits to monitor our compliance. In general, corrective actions required as a result of these audits do not have a significant impact on our manufacturing operations; however there is a limited risk that delays caused by a potential response to extensive corrective actions could impact our operations. Virtually all of our products manufactured or sold overseas are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. If we do not obtain these approvals, we could be precluded from selling our products or required to make modifications to our products which could delay bringing our products to market. Because our US products lines are mature, new product changes are in general relatively minor, and accordingly regulatory approval is more streamlined. WE MUST RAPIDLY DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS IN ORDER TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. Technology in our industry, particularly in the x-ray and medical imaging businesses, evolves rapidly, and making timely product innovations is essential to our success in the marketplace. The introduction by our competitors of products with improved technologies or features may render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our products do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Also, our new products may contain defects or errors which give rise to product liability claims against us or cause the products to fail to gain market acceptance. It is generally accepted that digital radiography will become the dominant technology used in hospitals and imaging clinics throughout the world over the next 10 to 15 years. Currently, there are a number of competing technologies available in connection with the digitization of x-ray images. However, due to the high cost of this technology, many institutions have not yet adopted digital technology. In addition, there is uncertainty as to which 11 technology system will be accepted as the industry-leading protocol for image digitization and communication. Lack of an adequate digital capability could impact our business and result in a loss of market share. WE MUST CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS WITHOUT INFRINGING ON THE PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES. Although we believe our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future or that, if asserted, any infringement claim will be successfully defended. A successful claim, or any claim, against us could distract our management's attention from other business concerns and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. POTENTIAL PAYMENTS REQUIRED UNDER A CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS WITH A FORMER CEO COULD UNDULY BURDEN OUR COMPANY. The Company's employment agreement with Samuel E. Park, a former CEO of the Company, provides for payments upon certain changes of control. The Company's Board of Directors elected at the Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 29, 2003, had previously reviewed the "change of control" provisions regarding payments totaling up to approximately $1,800,000 under the employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Park. As a result of this review and based upon, among other things, the advice of special counsel, the Company's Board of Directors determined that no obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. Prior to his departure from the Company on October 10, 2003, Mr. Park orally informed the Company that, after reviewing the matter with his counsel, he believed that the obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. On October 27, 2003, the Company received a letter from Mr. Park's counsel demanding payment of certain sums and other consideration pursuant to the Company's employment agreement with Mr. Park, including these change of control payments. On November 17, 2003, the Company filed a complaint against Mr. Park seeking a declaratory judgment that no change in control payment was or is due to Mr. Park, and that an amendment to the employment contract with Mr. Park regarding advancement and reimbursement of legal fees is invalid and unenforceable. Mr. Park answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims seeking payment from the Company based on his position that a "change in control" occurred in June 2003. Mr. Park is also seeking other consideration he believes he is owed under his employment agreement. The Company filed a reply to Mr. Park's counterclaims denying that he is entitled to any of these payments. Discovery in this matter was conducted and completed. Following discovery, the Company and Mr. Park filed motions for summary judgment on the issues related to change in control and the amendment to the employment agreement, which motions have been fully submitted to the Court for consideration. To date, no decision ha been issued by the Court on these motions. If Mr. Park prevails on his claims and the payments he seeks are required to be paid in a lump sum, these payments may have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity. THERE IS A RISK THAT OUR INSURANCE WILL NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO PROTECT US FROM PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, OR THAT IN THE FUTURE PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE TO US AT A REASONABLE COST, IF AT ALL. Our business involves the risk of product liability claims inherent to the medical device business. We maintain product liability insurance subject to certain deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from product liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. An uninsured or underinsured claim could materially harm our operating results or financial condition. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH HANDLING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS. Our research and development activity involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and such liability could be extensive. We are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and 12 waste management and disposal. The failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED IF OUR PRODUCTS CONTAIN UNDETECTED ERRORS OR DEFECTS OR DO NOT MEET CUSTOMER SPECIFICATIONS. We are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. Newly introduced or upgraded products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. If, despite our internal testing and testing by our customers, any of our products contains errors or defects, or any of our products fails to meet customer specifications, we may be required to recall or retrofit these products. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction and negative publicity and could harm our business and prospects. THE SEASONALITY OF OUR REVENUE MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT THE MARKET PRICES FOR OUR SHARES. Our revenue is typically lower during the first quarter of each fiscal year due to the shut-down of operations in our Milan, Italy and Bayshore, New York facilities for part of August. This seasonality causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter and these fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR SHARES WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE AND COULD DEPRESS THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK. As of October 28, 2005, an aggregate of 10,630,188 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of October 28, 2005, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 991,994 shares of our common stock and options to purchase 1,662,494 shares of our common stock, 1,508,742 of which were fully vested. Sales of large amounts of our common stock in the market could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our equity securities. A large volume of sales by holders exercising the warrants or options could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. WE HAVE A LIMITED TRADING MARKET AND OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock in the "pink sheets." We cannot assure you that a regular trading market for our common stock will ever develop or that, if developed, it will be sustained. The experiences of other small companies indicate that the market price for our common stock could be highly volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially, including: - future announcements concerning us, our competitors or other companies with whom we have business relationships; - changes in government regulations applicable to our business; - overall volatility of the stock market and general economic conditions; - changes in our earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; and - changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, substantial fluctuations in the price of our common stock could limit the ability of our current shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. 13 