ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating the Company and its business before purchasing our securities. In particular, prospective investors should note that this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and that actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by such statements. The factors listed below represent certain important factors which we believe could cause such results to differ. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. Our actual operating results can be expected to differ from the results indicated in our historical financial statements. On November 24, 2009, we sold our Del Medical U.S. business unit. On November 3, 2011, we sold Villa. Both of these businesses comprised the entire Medical Systems Group and are reported as discontinued operations. On August 16, 2012, we sold our Power Conversion Business. The sale of the Power Conversion Business will be reported as a gain from discontinued operations in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. Consequently, our historical financial statements may not be indicative of future results. We have limited positive cash flows. Following the sale of our Power Conversion Business, we no longer have substantial business operations and our incoming cash flows are currently limited to the following: (i) the lease of our facility in Milan, Italy, (ii) the lease of our facility in Bay Shore, New York, (iii) payments on an unsecured promissory note received in connection with sale of Villa, and (iv) any dividends that may be paid with respect to our investments in publicly-traded securities. We will continue to incur operating expenses for SEC reporting, auditing and similar functions, as well as normal operating expenses associated with any ongoing business, such as management services, rent, annual taxes, filing fees, and the like. Accordingly, in the absence of greater revenues, the Company may incur losses. Failure to successfully identify and enter into a new line of business or identify possible acquisition candidates could cause our stock price to decline. We are actively pursuing a new line of business operations and exploring all strategic alternatives to maximize shareholder value going forward, including deploying our assets in seeking business acquisition opportunities and other actions to redeploy our capital, while we manage our remaining operations. In relation to pursuing such strategic alternatives and new business acquisition opportunities, our stock price may decline due to any or all of the following potential occurrences: · we may not be able to identify a profitable new line of business or deploy successfully our resources to operate profitably in such line of business; · we may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates or may not be able to acquire suitable candidates with our limited financial resources; · we may not be able to utilize our existing net operating losses (“NOLs”) to offset future earnings; and · we may have difficulty retaining our Board of Directors or attracting suitable qualified candidates should a current director resign. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or business and investment opportunities. We are exploring strategic alternatives and seeking to identify new business acquisition opportunities in which we may utilize our NOLs. There is no guarantee that we will be able to identify such new business acquisition opportunities or strategic alternatives in which we may redeploy our assets. If we are unable to identify new business opportunities or investments or acquire suitable acquisition candidate(s), our results of operations and stock price may suffer. Our shareholders may be subject to the broad discretion of management. We have limited operating assets, and our business strategy involves identifying new business and investment opportunities. Our shareholders may not have an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of any such proposed transactions or investments. As a result, our shareholders may be dependent on the broad discretion and judgment of management in connection with the application of our capital and the selection of acquisition or investment targets. There can be no assurance that determinations ultimately made by us will permit us to achieve profitable operations. 4 We will incur significant costs in connection with our evaluation of new business opportunities and suitable acquisition candidates. Our management intends to identify, analyze and evaluate potential new business opportunities, including possible acquisition and merger candidates. We will incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses, as part of these efforts. Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we cannot give any assurance that we will identify an appropriate new business opportunity, or any acquisition opportunity, in the near term, or at all. We will likely have no operating history in our new line of business, which is yet to be determined, and therefore we will be subject to the risks inherent in establishing a new business. We have not identified what our new line or lines of business will be and, therefore, we cannot fully describe the specific risks presented by such business. It is likely that we will have had no operating history in the new line of business, and it is possible that any company we may acquire will have a limited operating history in its business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations will generate operating or net income, and as such our success will be subject to the risks, expenses, problems and delays inherent in establishing a new line of business for us. The ultimate success of such new business cannot be assured. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our NOLs. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain limits and adjustments. Based on current income tax rates, our NOLs and other carry-forwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon our ability to comply with the rules relating to the use of NOLs and the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOLs permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our NOLs will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable new business opportunities and acquisition candidates that maximize our NOLs, and once identified, successfully becoming established in this new business line or consummating such an acquisition. Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOLs would be subject to an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOLs generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOLs to offset taxable income. The amount of NOLs that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOLs, and our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred, and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), may limit our ability to carry forward our NOLs to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS was successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOLs to us could be substantially reduced. Depending on the nature of our business operations and assets, we cannot be certain that we will not be deemed a shell company under the federal securities laws. Pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act and Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, a shell company is defined as a registrant that has no or nominal operations, and either (a) no or nominal assets, (b) assets consisting solely of cash and cash equivalents, or (c) assets consisting of any amount of cash and cash equivalents and nominal other assets. Depending on the nature of our business operations and assets following the sale of our Power Conversion Business, there is a chance that we may be deemed a “shell company” under the federal securities laws and regulations. Applicable securities rules prohibit shell companies from using a Form S-8 registration statement to register securities pursuant to employee compensation plans and from utilizing Form S-3 for the registration of securities for so long as we would be a shell company and for 12 months thereafter. Additionally, Form 8-K requires shell companies to provide more detailed disclosure upon completion of a transaction that causes it to cease being a shell company. To the extent that we acquire a business in the future, we would be required to file a current report on Form 8-K containing the financial and other information required in a registration statement on Form 10 within four business days following completion of such a transaction. To the extent that we would be required to comply with additional disclosure because we would be a shell company, we might be delayed in executing any mergers or acquiring other assets that would cause us to cease being a shell company. In addition, under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, a holder of restricted securities of a “shell company” is not allowed to resell their securities in reliance upon Rule 144. Preclusion from any prospective purchase using the exemptions from registration afforded by Rule 144 might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future and the inability to utilize registration statements on Forms S-8 and S-3 would likely increase our cost to register securities in the future. Additionally, the loss of the use of Rule 144 and Forms S-3 and S-8 might make investments in our securities less attractive to investors and might make the offering and sale of our securities to employees, directors and others under compensatory arrangements more expensive and less attractive to recipients. We may be deemed an investment company, which could impose on us burdensome compliance requirements and restrict our activities, which may make it difficult for us to complete future business combinations or acquisitions. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Company Act”), requires registration, as an investment company, of companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. Generally, companies may be deemed investment companies under the Investment Company Act if they are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or they own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of certain assets. Following the sale of our Power Conversion Business and depending on our future activities and operations, we may become subject to the Investment Company Act. While Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act provides an exemption that allows companies that may be deemed investment companies but that have a bona fide intent to engage primarily in a business other than that of investing in securities up to one year to engage in such other business activity, we may not qualify for this or any other exemption under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: 5 · restrictions on the nature of and custodial requirements for holding our investments; and · restrictions on our issuance of securities which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. If we become subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional costs and expenses. There can be no assurance that we will not be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act or that we will qualify for the exemption under Rule 3a-2 of the Investment Company Act. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We currently expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects. Our Common Stock is not listed on a national securities exchange and we cannot predict when or if it ever will be listed on any national securities exchange. Current pricing information on our Common Stock has been available on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”). The OTCBB is an over-the-counter market which generally provides significantly less liquidity than established stock exchanges and quotes for stocks included in the OTCBB are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely in the OTCBB may be difficult to obtain, and shareholders may find it difficult to resell their shares. In order for our Common Stock to be listed on a national securities exchange, we will need to meet certain listing requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet such listing requirements. We do not have any current plans to list our Common Stock on a national securities exchange. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates which could impact our financial condition. The lease of our facility in Milan, Italy exposes us to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results are translated from Euros into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro, the translation of such foreign currency denominated lease payments will result in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the translation of such payments will result in decreased revenue, operating expenses and net income. As exchange rates vary, sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. We may sustain losses in our investment portfolio. A significant portion of our assets consists of investments in marketable securities that we hold as available-for-sale and we mark them to market. While there has been a decline in the trading values of certain of the securities in which we have invested, we have not recognized a material loss on our securities as the unrealized losses incurred were not deemed to be other-than-temporary. We expect to realize the full value of all our marketable securities upon maturity or sale, as we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until the full value is realized. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our invested cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, which may require us to record an impairment charge in the future that could adversely impact our financial results. If the financial institutions that maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities experience financial difficulties, which is more likely in the current weakened state of the economy, our cash balances may be adversely impacted. We maintain our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with certain financial institutions in which our balances exceed the limits that are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. If the underlying financial institutions fail or other adverse conditions occur in the financial markets, our cash balances may be impacted. 6 We are dependent on the release of funds from escrow accounts and are subject to potential indemnification claims. In connection with the sale of the Power Conversion Business, a portion of the proceeds from the sale is being held in escrow to cover any potential net working capital adjustment and a portion is being held in escrow to serve as security for payments in satisfaction of certain of the Company’s and RFI’s indemnification obligations. If EMS brings a claim pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, such claim may first be against such escrow amounts, but could be brought in excess of such escrow amounts. If such claim is proven successful, we may not receive the anticipated amount from the escrow accounts or may have to pay claims in excess of the escrow amounts directly from the Company, and the receipt of funds in the escrow accounts may be delayed pending the final outcome of any such claims. We may not be able to obtain additional financing. The Company does not currently have a U.S. credit facility to finance working capital needs. Management believes that if financing is needed, they would be able to obtain new asset based financing on the Company’s U.S. subsidiary. In addition, the Company may be able to dividend necessary funds from its foreign subsidiary, although this is not planned. Although on September 1, 2010, the Company completed a mortgage financing on our property in Bay Shore, New York, and received approximately $2.5 million payable over 10 years at an annual rate of interest of 4.9%, the Company can make no assurances that it will be able to obtain additional financing in the future on terms favorable to the Company or at all. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from product liability claims. Our Medical Systems Group and Power Conversion Group businesses involved the risk of product liability claims inherent to the business. We maintain product liability insurance subject to certain deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from product liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. An uninsured or underinsured claim could materially harm our operating results or financial condition. We may face risks associated with handling hazardous materials and products. Some of the research and development activity of our disposed businesses involved the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials complied with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, it may not have been possible to completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and such liability could be extensive. We were also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control and waste management and disposal. The failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. We may issue a substantial amount of our Common Stock in the future which could cause dilution to our shareholders and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our business strategy is to make acquisitions. While we may make acquisition(s) in whole or in part with cash, as part of such strategy, we may issue additional shares of Common Stock as consideration for such acquisitions. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of Common Stock as consideration, our existing shareholders’ equity interest may be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our Common Stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their Common Stock, which may influence the price of our Common Stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our Common Stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. A significant number of our shares will be available for future sale and could depress the market price of our stock. As of July 28, 2012, an aggregate of 3,839,468 shares of our Common Stock were issued and outstanding. In addition, as of July 28, 2012, there were outstanding options to purchase 184,008 shares of our Common Stock, 124,108 of which were fully vested. Sales of large amounts of our Common Stock in the market could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our equity securities. A large volume of sales by holders exercising options could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our Common Stock. We have a limited trading market and our stock price may be volatile. There is a limited public trading market for our Common Stock in the Over-the-Counter “OTC” Market. We cannot assure you that a regular trading market for our Common Stock will ever develop or that, if developed, it will be sustained. The experiences of other small companies indicate that the market price for our Common Stock could be highly volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our Common Stock to fluctuate substantially, including: 7 · future announcements concerning us, our competitors or other companies with whom we have business relationships; · changes in government regulations applicable to our business; · overall volatility of the stock market and general economic conditions; · changes in the value of our securities or real estate holdings; · changes in our earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; and · changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, substantial fluctuations in the price of our Common Stock could limit the ability of our current shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. The Company may submit, from time to time, proposals to shareholders to amend the company’s certificate of incorporation or to increase the number of common shares authorized and any resulting issuances of additional shares could prove dilutive to shareholders or deter changes in control of the Company. At a special meeting of shareholders of the Company held on October 13, 2010, the shareholders approved a proposal to increase the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock authorized to be issued by the Company from 50,000,000 to 100,000,000 in order to have a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to provide a reserve of shares available for issuance to meet business needs as they may arise in the future. Such business needs may include, without limitation, rights offerings, financings, acquisitions, establishing strategic relationships with corporate partners, providing equity incentives to employees, officers or directors, stock splits or similar transactions. On January 6, 2011, the Company effected a one-for-fifty reverse stock split, immediately followed by a four-for-one forward stock split. The number of authorized shares of our Common Stock did not change by virtue of the reverse stock split and forward stock split and the Company has additional shares of Common Stock which may be issued. Issuances of any additional shares for these or other reasons could prove dilutive to current shareholders or deter changes in control of the Company, including transactions where the shareholders could otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 