ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, in evaluating the Company and its business before purchasing our securities. In particular, prospective investors should note that this Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and that actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by such statements. The factors listed below represent certain important factors which we believe could cause such results to differ. These factors are not intended to represent a complete list of the general or specific risks that may affect us. It should be recognized that other risks may be significant, presently or in the future, and the risks set forth below may affect us to a greater extent than indicated. 10 Table Of Contents WE DO NOT INTEND TO PAY DIVIDENDS ON SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We currently expect to retain our future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our credit facility with our U.S. lender restricts our ability to pay dividends. COMPLIANCE WITH CHANGING REGULATION OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE MAY RESULT IN ADDITIONAL EXPENSES. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects. OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN DELISTED FROM THE NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET AND WE CANNOT PREDICT WHEN OR IF IT EVER WILL BE LISTED ON ANY NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGE. Due to our past failure to comply with the United States Securities Laws, our common stock was suspended from trading on the NASDAQ National Market in December 2000. Current pricing information on our common stock has been available on the over the counter bulletin board (the “OTC”) published by National Quotation Bureau, LLC. The OTC is an over-the-counter market which generally provides significantly less liquidity than established stock exchanges or the NASDAQ National Market, and quotes for stocks included in the OTC are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely in the OTC may be difficult to obtain, and shareholders may find it difficult to resell their shares. In order to be re-listed, we will need to meet certain listing requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet such listing requirements. FAILURE BY US TO ADHERE TO OUR ADMINISTRATIVE AGREEMENT WITH THE DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY COULD RESULT IN OUR DEBARMENT FROM DOING BUSINESS WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT. On April 5, 2005, the Company announced that it had reached an administrative agreement with the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency (the “DLA”), a component of the U.S. Department of Defense (the “DOD”), which provides that RFI will not be debarred from doing business with the U.S. Government entities as long as RFI maintains its compliance program and adheres to the terms of the administrative agreement. If RFI fails to maintain its compliance program or RFI or the Company fails to adhere to the terms of the administrative agreement, the DLA could debar the Company from doing business with U.S. Government entities. On May 24, 2007, the Company's RFI subsidiary was served with a subpoena to testify before a grand jury of the United States District Court, Eastern District of New York and to provide items and records from its Bay Shore, NY offices in connection with U.S. Department of Defense contracts. A search warrant from the United States District Court, Eastern District of New York was issued and executed with respect to such offices. The Company believes that it is in full compliance with the quality standards that its customers require and is fully cooperating with investigators to assist them with their review. The Company's RFI subsidiary is continuing to ship products to the U.S. Government as well as to its commercial customers. OUR BUSINESS IS BASED ON TECHNOLOGY THAT IS NOT PROTECTED BY PATENT OR OTHER RIGHTS. The technology and designs underlying our products are unprotected by patent rights. Our future success is dependent primarily on unpatented trade secrets and on the innovative skills, technological expertise and management abilities of our employees. Because we do not have patent rights in our products, our technology may not preclude or inhibit competitors from producing products that have identical performance as our products. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any protected trade secret could ultimately be proven valid if challenged. Any such challenge, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and, if successful, require us to pay monetary damages. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY. A number of foreign and domestic companies have developed, or are expected to develop, products that compete or will compete with our products. Many of these competitors offer a range of products in areas other than those in which we compete, which may make such competitors more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, general purchasing organizations and other potential customers. In addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do and offer a range of products broader than our products. Some of the companies with which we now compete or may compete in the future have or may have more extensive research, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical and personnel resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. 11 Table Of Contents OUR DELAY OR INABILITY TO OBTAIN ANY NECESSARY U.S. OR FOREIGN REGULATORY CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS FOR OUR PRODUCTS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS. Our medical imaging products, with the exception of certain veterinary lines, are the subject of a high level of regulatory oversight. Any delay in our obtaining or our inability to obtain any necessary U.S. or foreign regulatory approvals for new products could harm our business and prospects. There is a limited risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn or modified which could create delays in shipping our product, pending re-approval. Medical devices cannot be marketed in the U.S. without clearance or approval by the FDA. Our Medical Systems Group businesses must be operated in compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing Practices, which regulate the design, manufacture, packing, storage and installation of medical devices. Our manufacturing facilities and business practices are subject to periodic regulatory audits and quality certifications and we do self audits to monitor our compliance. In general, corrective actions required as a result of these audits do not have a significant impact on our manufacturing operations; however there is a limited risk that delays caused by a potential response to extensive corrective actions could impact our operations. Virtually all of our products manufactured or sold overseas are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. If we do not obtain these approvals, we could be precluded from selling our products or required to make modifications to our products which could delay bringing our products to market. Because our U.S. products lines are mature, new product changes are in general relatively minor, and accordingly regulatory approval is more streamlined. WE MUST RAPIDLY DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS IN ORDER TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY. Technology in our industry, particularly in the x-ray and medical imaging businesses, evolves rapidly, and making timely product innovations is essential to our success in the marketplace. The introduction by our competitors of products with improved technologies or features may render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. If we cannot develop products in a timely manner in response to industry changes, or if our products do not perform well, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. Also, our new products may contain defects or errors which give rise to product liability claims against us or cause the products to fail to gain market acceptance. It is generally accepted that digital radiography will become the dominant technology used in hospitals and imaging clinics throughout the world over the next 10 to 15 years. Currently, there are a number of competing technologies available in connection with the digitization of x-ray images. However, due to the high cost of this technology, many institutions have not yet adopted digital technology. In addition, there is uncertainty as to which technology system will be accepted as the industry-leading protocol for image digitization and communication. Lack of an adequate digital capability could impact our business and result in a loss of market share. A SHORTAGE OF AN ADEQUATE SUPPLY OF RAW MATERIALS COULD INCREASE OUR COSTS AND CAUSE A DELAY IN OUR ABILITY TO SHIP PRODUCT AND FULFILL ORDERS. A LARGE PORTION OF OUR MANUFACTURING COSTS CONSIST OF THE COST OF MATERIALS AND AN INCREASE IN THESE COSTS COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR GROSS MARGINS. We rely on external sources to supply raw materials, which consist primarily of mechanical subassemblies, electronic components, x-ray tubes and x-ray generators in the Medical Systems Group and electronic components and subassemblies and, metal enclosures for its products in the Power Conversion Group. Our ability to meet future demand and manufacture our product is dependent on these sources of supply. If disruptions in these sources of supply cause shortages of raw materials, our ability to ship products to customers will be impacted. In addition, due to the high material cost component of our manufactured goods, our gross margins would be adversely impacted by increases in raw material costs we may be unable to pass along to our customers due to market conditions. DUE TO THE SIGNIFICANCE OF OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS, POLITICAL OR ECONOMIC CHANGES IN THE VARIOUS COUNTRIES OR REGIONS WE MANUFACTURE IN OR SELL OUR PRODUCTS TO COULD IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. 12 Table Of Contents International sales, including product manufactured at our facility in Milan, Italy, as well as product manufactured in the US, comprised 64% and 66% of consolidated revenues for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of international risks, including unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, political or social unrest; economic instability or natural disasters; environmental or trade protection measures; changes in governmental or other entities buying patterns and tender order procedures; changes in other regulatory or certification requirements. In addition any changes in Italian tax laws including changes in withholding on dividends from our Italian subsidiary or other restrictions on transfers of funds to the U.S. could impact our financial condition. THE COMPANY'S WORKING CAPITAL NEEDS ARE FINANCED IN PART BY CREDIT FACILITIES WITH U.S. AND ITALIAN BANKS. THE COMPANY HAS NEEDED TO OBTAIN WAIVERS FROM ITS U.S. LENDERS FOR COVENANT VIOLATIONS DUE TO LESS THAN ANTICIPATED OPERATING RESULTS. On December 6, 2006, the Company and its U.S. lender signed an amendment to its U.S. revolving credit and term loan credit facility which waived covenant violations existing as of October 28, 2006 and adjusted the financial covenants for future periods based on a business plan the Company provided to its lender. Although the Company was in compliance with all covenants of its revolving credit and term loan facility as of August 2, 2008 and the Company had no outstanding borrowings under these agreements, should the Company’s results be less that anticipated in the business plan, the Company could have future covenant violations. If the Company and its lender were unable to cure the violations by signing a waiver agreement, or through other means, the Company could be in default under its foreign and domestic credit agreements and the banks would have the ability to stop revolving credit borrowings under the facility or accelerate the maturity of any outstanding balances. If additional sources of debt or equity capital were not available at that point, such acceleration could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position. WE MUST CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS WITHOUT INFRINGING ON THE PROPRIETARY RIGHTS OF THIRD PARTIES. Although we believe our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, there can be no assurance that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future or that, if asserted, any infringement claim will be successfully defended. A successful claim, or any claim, against us could distract our management’s attention from other business concerns and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. POTENTIAL SETTLEMENTS REQUIRED UNDER LEGAL PROCEEDINGS WITH FORMER EMPLOYEES OF THE COMPANY COULD UNDULY BURDEN OUR COMPANY. The Company had an employment agreement with Samuel Park, a previous Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), for the period May 1, 2001 to April 30, 2004. The employment agreement provided for certain payments in the event of a change in the control of the Company. On October 10, 2003, the Company announced the appointment of Walter F. Schneider as President and CEO to replace Mr. Park, effective as of such date. As a result, the Company recorded a charge of $.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2004 to accrue the balance remaining under Mr. Park’s employment agreement. The Company’s employment agreement with Mr. Park provided for payments upon certain changes of control. The Company’s Board of Directors elected at the Company’s Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 29, 2003, had reviewed the “change of control” provisions regarding payments totaling up to approximately $1.8 million under the employment agreement between the Company and Mr. Park. As a result of this review and based upon, among other things, the advice of special counsel, the Company’s Board of Directors has determined that no obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. Prior to his departure from the Company on October 10, 2003, Mr. Park orally informed the Company that, after reviewing the matter with his counsel, he believed that the obligation to pay these amounts has been triggered. On October 27, 2003, the Company received a letter from Mr. Park’s counsel demanding payment of certain sums and other consideration pursuant to the Company’s employment agreement with Mr. Park, including these change of control payments. On November 17, 2003, the Company filed a complaint in the United States District Court, Southern District of New York, against Mr. Park seeking a declaratory judgment that no change in control payment was or is due to Mr. Park, and that an amendment to the employment contract with Mr. Park regarding advancement and reimbursement of legal fees is invalid and unenforceable. Mr. Park answered the complaint and asserted counterclaims seeking payment from the Company based on his position that a “change in control” occurred in June 2003. Mr. Park is also seeking other consideration he believes he is owed under his employment agreement. The Company filed a reply to Mr. Park’s counterclaims denying that he is entitled to any of these payments. Discovery in this matter was conducted and completed. Following discovery, the Company and Mr. Park filed motions for summary judgment on the issues related to the change in control and the amendment to the employment agreement, which motions have been fully submitted to the court for consideration. To date, no decision has been issued by the court on these motions. If Mr. Park prevails on his claims and the payments he seeks are required to be paid in a lump sum, these payments may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these claims. However, the Company’s Board of Directors does not believe that such a claim is reasonably likely to result in a material decrease in the Company’s liquidity in the foreseeable future. The Company has not recorded an accrual for any potential settlements of this claim as it has no basis upon which to estimate either the outcome or amount of loss, if any. 13 Table Of Contents On June 28, 2002, Jeffrey N. Moeller, the former Director of Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs of Del Medical, commenced an action in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, against the Company, Del Medical and Walter Schneider, the former President of Del Medical. In the most current iteration of his complaint, the third amended complaint, Mr. Moeller alleged four claims against the defendants in the action: for (1) retaliatory discharge from employment with Del Medical, allegedly in response to Mr. Moeller’s complaints to officers of Del Medical about purported prebilling and his stopping shipment of a product that allegedly did not meet regulatory standards, (2) defamation, (3) intentional interference with his employment relationship with Del Medical and prospective employers, and (4) to hold the Company liable for any misconduct of Del Medical under a theory of piercing the corporate veil. In their answer to the third amended complaint, the defendants denied the substantive allegations of each of these claims and denied that they have any liability to Mr. Moeller. By order dated September 15, 2006, the Court denied in part and granted in part defendants’ motion requesting summary judgment dismissing the third amended complaint. The court granted the motion only to the extent of dismissing that part of Mr. Moeller’s claim of interference with his employment relationship with Del Medical and his relationship with prospective employers. In fiscal 2007, the Company recorded an accrual of $0.1 million relating to potential liability in the settlement of these claims. The parties appeared for mediation in January 2007 but the mediation did not result in a disposition of the action. A trial was held in April 2008 and on April 17, 2008, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Mr. Moeller for $1.8 million for lost earnings, back pay, front pay and benefits on the retaliatory discharge claim, and $0.2 million for emotional distress/reputation damages and $0.2 million in punitive damages on the defamation claim. On May 19, 2008, counsel for the defendants filed their motion for judgment in their favor notwithstanding the jury verdict, or, alternatively, for a new trial, on those claims on which the jury found the respective defendants liable. By order dated August 15, 2008, the Court denied that motion. On August 25, 2008, the Company and the other defendants filed their notice of appeal by which they appeal to the Appellate Court of Illinois, First District, among other things, the judgment entered against the Company and the other defendants on the jury verdict. On September 12, 2008 the Company and the other defendants filed an amended notice of appeal. The Company intends to pursue the appeal vigorously, seeking thereby reversal of the judgment and to have a judgment entered in favor of the Company and the other defendants or to have a new trial. In lieu of a bond, the Company filed an irrevocable standby letter of credit in the amount of $2.6 million by which Mr. Moeller can collect the amount of the judgment entered by the trial court in the event the appellate court affirms that judgment. On April 28, 2008, George Apergis (“Apergis”), the former General Manager of RFI, filed a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (“EEOC”) alleging that RFI discriminated against him by terminating his employment with RFI on December 18, 2007. Apergis alleged three claims against RFI: (1) violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act; (2) violation of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act and (3) retaliation. RFI responded to the EEOC charge with a position statement filed with the EEOC on June 26, 2008 denying each allegation of the charge. As of September 16, 2008, RFI is waiting to hear for a response to their position statement from the EEOC. RFI intends to defend vigorously against Apergis. THERE IS A RISK THAT OUR INSURANCE WILL NOT BE SUFFICIENT TO PROTECT US FROM PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS, OR THAT IN THE FUTURE PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE TO US AT A REASONABLE COST, IF AT ALL. Our business involves the risk of product liability claims inherent to the medical device business. We maintain product liability insurance subject to certain deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that our insurance will not be sufficient to protect us from product liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. An uninsured or underinsured claim could materially harm our operating results or financial condition. WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH HANDLING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS AND PRODUCTS. 14 Table Of Contents Our research and development activity involves the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by federal, state and local regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and such liability could be extensive. We are also subject to substantial regulation relating to occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. The failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED IF OUR PRODUCTS CONTAIN UNDETECTED ERRORS OR DEFECTS OR DO NOT MEET CUSTOMER SPECIFICATIONS. We are continuously developing new products and improving our existing products. Newly introduced or upgraded products can contain undetected errors or defects. In addition, these products may not meet their performance specifications under all conditions or for all applications. If, despite our internal testing and testing by our customers, any of our products contains errors or defects, or any of our products fails to meet customer specifications, we may be required to recall or retrofit these products. We may not be able to do so on a timely basis, if at all, and may only be able to do so at considerable expense. In addition, any significant reliability problems could result in adverse customer reaction and negative publicity and could harm our business and prospects. THE SEASONALITY OF OUR REVENUE MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT THE MARKET PRICES FOR OUR SHARES. Our revenue is typically lower during the first quarter of each fiscal year due to the shut-down of operations in our Milan, Italy and Bay Shore, New York facilities for part of August. This seasonality causes our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter and these fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR SHARES WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE AND COULD DEPRESS THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR STOCK. As of October 1, 2008, an aggregate of 24,246,165 shares of our common stock were outstanding. In addition, as of October 1, 2008, there were outstanding warrants to purchase 500,321 shares of our common stock and options to purchase 2,094,815 shares of our common stock, 1,595,438 of which were fully vested. Sales of large amounts of our common stock in the market could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and could impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our equity securities. A large volume of sales by holders exercising the warrants or options could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. WE HAVE A LIMITED TRADING MARKET AND OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE. There is a limited public trading market for our common stock in the Over-the-Counter “OTC” Market. We cannot assure you that a regular trading market for our common stock will ever develop or that, if developed, it will be sustained. The experiences of other small companies indicate that the market price for our common stock could be highly volatile. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially, including: - future announcements concerning us, our competitors or other companies with whom we have business relationships; - changes in government regulations applicable to our business; - overall volatility of the stock market and general economic conditions; - changes in our earnings estimates or recommendations by analysts; and - changes in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Accordingly, substantial fluctuations in the price of our common stock could limit the ability of our current shareholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. 15 Table Of Contents THE COMPANY MAY SUBMIT, FROM TIME TO TIME, PROPOSALS TO SHAREHOLDERS TO AMEND THE COMPANY’S CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OR TO INCREASE THE NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES AUTHORIZED. At a special meeting of shareholders of the Company held on November 17, 2006, the Company’s shareholders approved an Amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company to increase the number of authorized shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.10 per share, from twenty million (20,000,000) shares to fifty million (50,000,000) shares in order to have a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to provide a reserve of shares available for issuance to meet business needs as they may arise in the future. Such business needs may include, without limitation, rights offerings, financings, acquisitions, establishing strategic relationships with corporate partners, providing equity incentives to employees, officers or directors, stock splits or similar transactions. Issuances of any additional shares for these or other reasons could prove dilutive to current shareholders or deter changes in control of the Company, including transactions where the shareholders could otherwise receive a premium for there shares over then current market prices. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 