risk factors described under Item 1A, Risk Factors, in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other filings with the SEC. These factors may not constitute all factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statement. The Company operates in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. The Company cannot predict such factors, nor can it assess the impact, if any, of such factors on its financial position or results of operations. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a predictor of actual results. The Company disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this Form 10-K. PART I Item 1. Business. Federal Signal Corporation, founded in 1901, was reincorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1969. The Company designs and manufactures a suite of products and integrated solutions for municipal, governmental, industrial and commercial customers. The Company’s portfolio of products includes safety and security systems, vacuum loader vehicles, street sweepers, truck mounted aerial platforms, waterblasters, and technology-based products and solutions for the public safety market. Federal Signal Corporation and its subsidiaries operate 11 manufacturing facilities in six countries around the world serving customers in approximately 100 countries in all regions of the world. Narrative Description of Business Products manufactured and services rendered by the Company are divided into three major operating segments: Safety and Security Systems, Fire Rescue and Environmental Solutions. The individual operating businesses are organized as such because they share certain characteristics, including technology, marketing, distribution and product application, which create long-term synergies. 1 Financial information (net sales, operating income, depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures and identifiable assets) concerning the Company’s three operating segments as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012, is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding the Company’s discontinued operations is included in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Safety and Security Systems Group Our Safety and Security Systems Group is a leading manufacturer and supplier of comprehensive systems and products that law enforcement, fire rescue, emergency medical services, campuses, military facilities and industrial sites use to protect people and property. Offerings include systems for campus and community alerting, emergency vehicles, first responder interoperable communications, industrial communications, and command and municipal networked security. Specific products include vehicle lightbars and sirens, public warning sirens and public safety software. Products are sold under the Federal Signal™, Federal Signal VAMA™, Target Tech® and Victor™ brand names. The Group operates manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and South Africa. Fire Rescue Group Our Fire Rescue Group is a leading manufacturer and supplier of sophisticated, vehicle-mounted, aerial platforms for fire fighting, rescue, electric utility and industrial uses. End customers include fire departments, industrial fire services, electric utilities and maintenance rental companies for applications such as fire fighting and rescue, transmission line maintenance, and installation and maintenance of wind turbines. The Group’s telescopic/articulated aerial platforms are designed in accordance with various regulatory codes and standards, such as European Norms (“EN”), National Fire Protection Association (“NFPA”) and American National Standards Institute (“ANSI”). In addition to equipment sales, the Group sells parts, service and training as part of a complete offering to its customer base. The Group manufactures in Finland and sells globally under the Bronto Skylift® brand name. Environmental Solutions Group Our Environmental Solutions Group is a leading manufacturer and supplier of a full range of street sweeper and vacuum trucks and high-performance waterblasting equipment for municipal and industrial customers. We also manufacture products for the newer markets of hydro-excavation, glycol recovery and surface cleaning for utility and industrial customers. Products are sold under the Elgin®, Vactor®, Guzzler® and Jetstream™ brand names. The Group primarily manufactures its vehicles and equipment in the United States. Under the Elgin brand name, the Company sells a leading U.S. brand of street sweepers primarily designed for large-scale cleaning of curbed streets, parking lots and other paved surfaces utilizing mechanical sweeping, vacuum, and recirculating air technology. Vactor is a leading manufacturer of municipal combination catch basin/sewer cleaning vacuum trucks. Guzzler is a leader in industrial vacuum loaders used to manage industrial waste or recover and recycle valuable raw materials. Jetstream manufactures high pressure waterblast equipment and accessories for commercial and industrial cleaning and maintenance operations. In addition to equipment sales, the Group is increasingly engaged in the sale of parts and tooling, service and repair, equipment rentals and training as part of a complete offering to its customer base. Discontinued Federal Signal Technologies Group As discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K, on September 4, 2012, the Company completed the disposition of the assets of its Federal Signal Technologies (“FSTech”) Group. The consolidated financial statements for all periods presented have been recast to present the operating results of previously divested or exited businesses as discontinued operations, including the FSTech Group. 2 Marketing and Distribution The Safety and Security Systems Group sells to industrial customers through approximately 2,000 wholesalers/distributors who are supported by Company sales personnel and/or independent manufacturers’ representatives. Products are also sold to municipal and governmental customers through more than 1,900 active independent distributors as well as through original equipment manufacturers and direct sales. International sales are made through the Group’s independent foreign distributors or on a direct basis. The Company also sells comprehensive integrated warning and interoperable communications through a combination of a direct sales force and distributors. The Fire Rescue and Environmental Solutions Groups use dealer networks and direct sales to service customers generally depending on the type and location of the customer. The Environmental Solutions Group’s direct sales channel concentrates on the industrial, utility and construction market segments, while the dealer networks focus primarily on the municipal markets. The Company believes its national and global dealer networks for vehicles distinguish it from its competitors. Dealer representatives demonstrate the vehicles’ functionalities and capabilities to customers and service the vehicles on a timely basis. Customers and Backlog Approximately 36%, 26% and 38% of the Company’s total 2012 orders were to U.S. municipal and governmental customers, U.S. commercial and industrial customers, and non-U.S. customers, respectively. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s business. During 2012, the Company’s U.S. municipal and governmental orders increased 8% from 2011, compared to a 22% increase in these orders in 2011 as compared to 2010, as the U.S. and global markets continued their recovery from the economic recession. The U.S. commercial and industrial orders in 2012 decreased 7% from 2011, compared to an increase of 36% in these orders in 2011 compared to 2010. Approximately 60% of orders to non-U.S. customers flow to municipalities and governments, while approximately 40% flow to industrial and commercial customers. The non-U.S. municipal and governmental market segment is essentially similar to the U.S. municipal and governmental market segment in that it is largely dependent on tax revenues to support spending. Of the non-U.S. orders, the Company typically sells approximately 30% of its products in Europe, 19% in Canada, 12% in the Middle East and Africa, 16% in China, 6% in Australia and less than 10% in any other particular region. The Company’s backlog totaled $318.4 million at December 31, 2012 compared to $295.2 million at December 31, 2011. Backlogs vary by Group due to the nature of the Company’s products and buying patterns of its customers. Safety and Security Systems typically maintains an average backlog of two months of shipments, Environmental Solutions maintains an average backlog of three to four months of shipments, and Fire Rescue normally maintains an average backlog of five months of shipments, excluding service and maintenance contracts that generally cover a period of more than one year. Production of the Company’s December 31, 2012 backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2013. Suppliers The Company purchases a wide variety of raw materials from around the world for use in the manufacture of its products, although the majority of current purchases are from North American sources. To minimize the risks of availability, price and quality, the Company is party to numerous strategic supplier arrangements. Although certain materials are obtained from either a single-source supplier or a limited number of suppliers, the Company has identified alternative sources to minimize the interruption of its business in the event of supply problems. 3 Components critical to the production of the Company’s vehicles, such as engines and hydraulic systems, are purchased from a select number of suppliers. The Company also purchases raw and fabricated steel as well as commercial chassis with certain specifications from multiple sources. The Company believes it has adequate supplies or sources of availability of the raw materials and components necessary to meet its needs. However, there are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of certain of these raw materials that could impact their price, quality and availability in sufficient quantities. Competition Within specific product categories and domestic markets, the Safety and Security Systems Group companies are among the leaders with three to four strong competitors and several additional ancillary market participants. The Group’s international market position varies from leader to ancillary participant depending on the geographic region and product line. Generally, competition is intense within all of the Group’s product lines, and purchase decisions are made based on competitive bidding, price, reputation, performance and servicing. Within the Fire Rescue Group, Bronto Skylift is established as a global leader for aerial platforms used in fire fighting, rescue and industrial markets. Competitor offerings can include trailer mounted articulated aerials and traditional fire trucks with ladders. Bronto competes on product performance, where it holds technological advantages in its designs, materials and production processes. Within the Environmental Solutions Group, Elgin is recognized as a market leader among several domestic sweeper competitors and differentiates itself primarily on product performance. Vactor and Guzzler both maintain a leading domestic position in their respective marketplaces by enhancing product performance with leading technology and application flexibility. Jetstream is a market leader in the in-plant cleaning segment of the U.S. waterblast industry, competing on product performance and rapid delivery. Research and Development The Company invests in research to support development of new products and the enhancement of existing products and services. The Company believes this investment is important to maintain and/or enhance its leadership position in key markets. Expenditures for research and development by the Company were $10.0 million in 2012, $12.1 million in 2011 and $10.4 million in 2010, and were reported within selling, engineering, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses. Patents and Trademarks The Company owns a number of patents and possesses rights under others to which it attaches importance, but does not believe that its business as a whole is materially dependent upon any such patents or rights. The Company also owns a number of trademarks that it believes are important in connection with the identification of its products and associated goodwill with customers, but no material part of the Company’s business is dependent on such trademarks. Employees The Company employed 2,558 people in its businesses at the close of 2012. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s U.S. hourly workers accounted for approximately 41% of its total workforce. Approximately 28% of the Company’s U.S. hourly workers were represented by unions at December 31, 2012. We believe that our labor relations with our employees are good. 4 Governmental Regulation of the Environment The Company believes it substantially complies with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Capital expenditures in 2012 attributable to compliance with such laws were not material. The Company believes that the overall impact of compliance with environmental regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its future operations. The Company retained an environmental consultant to conduct an environmental risk assessment at the Pearland, Texas facility. The facility, which was previously used by the Company’s discontinued Pauluhn business, manufactured marine, offshore and industrial lighting products. The Company sold the facility in May 2012. While the Company has not finalized its plans, it is probable that the site will require remediation. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, $1.8 million and $2.2 million, respectively, of reserves related to the environmental remediation of the Pearland facility are included in liabilities of discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet. The Company’s estimate may change in the near term as more information becomes available; however, the costs are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or liquidity. Seasonality Certain of the Company businesses are susceptible to the influences of seasonal buying or delivery patterns. The Company tends to have lower sales in the first calendar quarter compared to other quarters as a result of these influences. Additional Information The Company makes its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, other reports and information filed with the SEC and amendments to those reports available, free of charge, through its Internet Website (www.federalsignal.com) as soon as reasonably practical after it electronically files or furnishes such materials to the SEC. All of the Company’s filings may be read or copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following is a list of the Company’s executive officers, their ages, business experience and positions and offices as of February 1, 2013: Dennis J. Martin, age 62, was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer in October 2010 and was appointed to the Board of Directors in March 2008. Mr. Martin had been an independent business consultant from 2005 to October 2010 and was the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of General Binding Corporation from 2001 to 2005. Charles F. Avery, Jr., age 48, was appointed Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Information Officer in May 2011. Mr. Avery was Vice President, Information Technology and Controller from March 2010 to May 2011 and was Vice President Finance for the Environmental Solutions Group from March 2005 to March 2010. Bryan L. Boettger, age 60, was appointed President of Public Safety Systems in May 2011. Mr. Boettger was Vice President of Operations for the Safety and Security Systems Group from 2010 to 2011 and Interim Vice President/General Manager Public Safety Systems and President of Emergency Products Division from 2006 to 2009. 5 Julie A. Cook, age 51, was appointed Vice President, Human Resources in September 2012. Ms. Cook served as Johnson Controls, Inc.’s Director of Human Resources, Building Efficiency Programs and then Vice President of Human Resources, Global Manufacturing, Supply Chain and Communications, during 2010 through 2012. Ms. Cook previously served as the Company’s Environmental Solutions Group Vice President of Human Resources with responsibility for Corporate Human Resources from 2008 through 2010. Ms Cook was Group Vice President of Human Resources for the Environmental Solutions Group from 2001 to 2007. Esa Peltola, age 61, was appointed President of Bronto Skylift Oy Ab in July 2007. Mr. Peltola was Managing Director of Bronto Skylift from 1998 to 2007. Jennifer L. Sherman, age 48, was appointed Chief Administrative Officer, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in October 2010. Ms. Sherman was Senior Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary from April 2008 to July 2010. Ms. Sherman was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2004 to March 2008 and was Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from 1998 to 2004. Braden N. Waverley, age 46, was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer in October 2012. Prior to joining the Company in a consulting capacity managing the FSTech Group sale process, Mr. Waverley served as Executive Chairman of CombineNet, Inc. from 2005 to 2010, and was an investor and advisor to multiple, early stage companies. Mark D. Weber, age 55, was appointed President of the Environmental Solutions Group in April 2003. Mr. Weber was Vice President Sweeper Products for the Environmental Solutions Group from 2002 to 2003 and General Manager of Elgin Sweeper Company from 2001 to 2002. Joseph W. Wilson, age 55, was appointed President of Industrial Systems Division in May 2011. Mr. Wilson was Vice President/General Manager of the Industrial Systems Division from 2010 to 2011, in 2007 was Vice President/General Manager Industrial & Commercial System Division, and in 2006 was Vice President/General Manager Public Safety & Transportation System Division. These officers hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors following their election and until their successors have been elected and qualified. There are no family relationships among any of the foregoing executive officers. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, among other things, filings with the SEC, including this Form 10-K, press releases made by us and in oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the risks described below. Our financial results are subject to U.S. economic uncertainty. In 2012, we generated approximately 61% of our sales in the U.S. Our ability to be profitable depends heavily on varying conditions in the U.S. governmental and municipal markets and the overall U.S. economy. The industrial markets in which we compete are subject to considerable cyclicality, and move in response to cycles in the overall business environment. Many of our customers are municipal government agencies, and as a result, we are dependent on municipal government spending. Spending by our municipal customers can be 6 affected by local political circumstances, budgetary constraints and other factors. The U.S. government and municipalities depend heavily on tax revenues as a source of their spending and accordingly, there is a historical correlation of a one or two year lag between the overall strength of the U.S. economy and our sales to the U.S. government and municipalities. Therefore, downturns in the U.S. economy are likely to result in decreases in demand for our products. During previous economic downturns, we experienced decreases in sales and profitability, and we expect our business to remain subject to similar economic fluctuations in the future. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic and political uncertainties and foreign currency rate fluctuations. Our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and changing international economic and political conditions that are beyond our control. In 2012, 39% of our sales were generated outside the U.S. and we expect a significant portion of our revenues to come from international sales for the foreseeable future. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks, including abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations, restrictive domestic and international trade regulations, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and the UK Bribery Act, political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers and, in some cases, international hostilities. To the extent that our international operations are affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses which could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. In addition, penalties for non-compliance with laws applicable to international business and trade, such as the FCPA, could negatively impact our business. Some of our contracts are denominated in foreign currencies, which results in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies over the longer term could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our profits. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants. We recently entered into a credit facility in March 2013 for a period of five years ending March 2018. The proceeds from this credit facility were used to refinance the majority of the Company’s existing indebtedness, including the Company’s secured credit facility and term loan. The new credit facility contains certain restrictive debt covenants and other customary events of default. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants may be affected by the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors outside of our control. Failure to comply with one or more of these restrictive covenants may result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable. If our current lenders accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis. In addition, these restrictive covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions and taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of credit and third-party financing arrangements for our customers. Economic downturns result in tighter credit markets, which could adversely affect our customers’ ability to secure financing or to secure financing at favorable terms or interest rates necessary to proceed or continue with purchases of our products and services. Our customers’ or potential customers’ inability to secure financing for projects could result in the delay, cancellation or downsizing of new purchases or the suspension of purchases already under contract, which could cause a decline in the demand for our products and services and negatively impact our revenues and earnings. 7 Our efforts to develop new products and services or enhance existing products and services involve substantial research, development and marketing expenses, and the resulting new or enhanced products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to justify the expense. We place a high priority on developing new products and services, as well as enhancing our existing products and services. As a result of these efforts, we may be required to expend substantial research, development and marketing resources, and the time and expense required to develop a new product or service or enhance an existing product or service are difficult to predict. We may not succeed in developing, introducing or marketing new products or services or product or service enhancements. In addition, we cannot be certain that any new or enhanced product or service will generate sufficient revenue to justify the expense and resources devoted to this product diversification effort. We could incur restructuring and impairment charges as we continue to evaluate opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our manufacturing operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure. We continue to evaluate opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our manufacturing operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure. These actions could result in significant charges which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future actions could result in restructuring and related charges, including but not limited to impairments, employee termination costs and charges for pension and other postretirement contractual benefits and pension curtailments that could be significant. We have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, including goodwill, which are subject to periodic impairment analysis and review. Identifying and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating results, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. Any of the above future actions could result in charges that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in highly competitive markets. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. The intensity of this competition, which is expected to continue, can result in price discounting and margin pressures throughout the industry and may adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain prices for our products. In addition, certain of our competitors may have lower overall labor or material costs. In addition, our contracts with municipal and other governmental customers are in some cases awarded and renewed through competitive bidding. We may not be successful in obtaining or renewing these contracts, which could be harmful to our business and financial performance. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, recall claims, client service interruption or other lawsuits or claims that may be brought against us. We are exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the normal course of business in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results or is alleged to result in bodily injury and/or property damage. For example, we have been sued by firefighters seeking damages claiming that exposure to our sirens has impaired their hearing and that the sirens are, therefore, defective. In addition, we are subject to other claims and litigation from time to time as further described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We could experience material warranty or product liability costs in the future and incur significant costs to defend against these claims. We carry insurance and maintain reserves for product liability claims. However, we cannot assure that our insurance coverage will be adequate if such claims do arise, and any defense costs and liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. A future claim could involve the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to state laws, may not be covered by insurance. In addition, warranty or other claims are not typically covered by insurance. Any product liability or warranty issues may adversely impact our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality, safe products and may have a material adverse effect on our business. 8 Failure to keep pace with technological developments may adversely affect our operations. We are engaged in an industry which will be affected by future technological developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new technologies could render our existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, applications and processes that keep pace with technological developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and product or process enhancements. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes. Our products, applications or processes may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or product or process enhancements, or if our products do not gain market acceptance. The inability to obtain raw materials, component parts, and/or finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. We purchase from suppliers raw materials and component parts to be used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we purchase certain finished goods from suppliers. Changes in our relationships with suppliers, shortages, production delays, regulatory restrictions or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely manufacture and market products. In addition, increases in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or our inability to market products. In addition, our profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends in part on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including finance personnel, research professionals, technical sales professionals and engineers. The loss of the services of any key employee or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business. We rely on a national and global dealer network to market certain of our products and services. A disruption in our dealer network within a specific local market could temporarily have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. In addition, the loss or termination of a significant number of dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters. We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a portion of our workforce is unionized. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 28% of our U.S. hourly workers are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings. Any strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in connection with the negotiation of new labor agreements or otherwise could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce structural costs and improve production efficiencies. We believe that our labor relations with our employees are good. 9 Our pension funding requirements and expenses are affected by certain factors outside of our control, including the performance of plan assets, the discount rate used to value liabilities, actuarial assumptions and experience and legal and regulatory changes. Our funding obligations and pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans are driven by the performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the discount rate used to value the plans’ liabilities, actuarial assumptions and experience and legal and regulatory funding requirements. Changes in these factors could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity. In addition, a portion of our pension plan assets are invested in equity securities, which can experience significant declines if financial markets weaken. The level of the funding of our defined benefit pension plan liabilities was approximately 69% as of December 31, 2012. Our future pension expenses and funding requirements could increase significantly due to the effect of adverse changes in the discount rate and asset levels along with a decline in the estimated return on plan assets. In addition, the Company could be legally required to make increased contributions to the pension plans, and these contributions could be material and negatively affect our cash flow. The costs associated with complying with environmental and safety regulations could lower our margins. We, like other manufacturers, continue to face heavy governmental regulation of our products, especially in the areas of the environment and employee health and safety. Complying with environmental and safety requirements has added and will continue to add to the cost of our products, and could increase the capital required to support our business. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, we may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to our operations under existing laws or those that may be adopted. These requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Therefore, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions as a result of violation of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and safety regulations. Our ability to use NOL carryovers to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is a change in our ownership or a failure to generate sufficient taxable income. Presently, there is no annual limitation on our ability to use U.S. federal NOLs to reduce future income taxes. However, if an ownership change as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, occurs with respect to our capital stock, our ability to use NOLs would be limited to specific annual amounts. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50% of our total capital stock in a three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use domestic NOLs to reduce taxable income is generally limited to an annual amount based on the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate. NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the 20-year carryforward period and can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryover period subject to the limitation in each year. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. If more than a 50% ownership change were to occur, use of our NOLs to reduce payments of federal taxable income may be deferred to later years within the 20-year carryover period; however, if the carryover period for any loss year expires, the use of the remaining NOLs for the loss year will be prohibited. If we should fail to generate a sufficient level of taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOL carryforward periods, then we will lose the ability to apply the NOLs as offsets to future taxable income. An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill, trade names and other long-lived assets could negatively affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as trade names, are recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill and trade names, we make 10 assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require us to make certain assumptions about our sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and in applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill and trade name recoverability. Goodwill reviews are prepared using estimates of the fair value of reporting units based on the estimated present value of future discounted cash flows. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill or trade names prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, a divestiture of a significant component of our business or market capitalization declines. We also continually evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred that indicate the remaining estimated useful lives of our definite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets may warrant revision or whether the remaining balance of such assets may not be recoverable. We use an estimate of the related undiscounted cash flow over the remaining life of the asset in measuring whether the asset is recoverable. If the future operating performance of our reporting units is not consistent with our assumptions, we could be required to record non-cash impairment charges. Impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods such charges are recorded. As of December 31, 2012, total consolidated goodwill was approximately 44% of total consolidated assets. We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisitions, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Our long-term strategy includes expanding into adjacent markets through selective acquisitions of companies, complementary products and services, as well as organic growth in order to enhance our global market position and broaden our product offerings. This strategy may involve the acquisition of companies that, among other things, enable us to build on our existing strength in a market or that give us access to proprietary products and services that are strategically valuable or allow us to leverage our distribution channels. In connection with this strategy, we could face certain risks and uncertainties in addition to those we face in the day-to-day operations of our business. We also may be unable to identify suitable targets for acquisition or make acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our acquisition activities could be disrupted by overtures from competitors for the targeted companies, governmental regulation and rapid developments in our industry that decrease the value of a target’s products or services. Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with the following: • integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate systems and processes and personnel of acquired companies; • managing geographically dispersed operations; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; and • potentially losing key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies. We also may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. 11 Businesses acquired by us may have liabilities which are not known to us. We may assume liabilities in connection with the acquisition of businesses. There may be liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on the acquired businesses. In these circumstances, we cannot assure that our rights to indemnification from sellers of the acquired businesses to us will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the businesses or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 