Item 1A. Risk Factors. We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, among other things, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including this Annual Report on 4 Table of Contents Form 10-K, press releases made by us and in oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, among other things, the risks described below. The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of credit and third-party financing arrangements for our customers. The recent economic downturn has resulted in tighter credit markets, which could adversely affect our customers’ ability to secure the financing necessary to proceed or continue with purchases of our products and services. Our customers’ or potential customers’ inability to secure financing for projects could result in the delay, cancellation or down-sizing of new purchases or the suspension of purchases already under contract, which could cause a decline in the demand for our products and services and negatively impact our revenues and earnings. We rely on access to financial markets to finance a portion of our working capital requirements and support our liquidity needs. Access to these markets may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including turmoil in the financial services industry, volatility in securities trading markets and general economic downturns. We draw upon our revolving credit facility and our operating cash flow to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, pension contributions, debt repayments, share repurchases and dividends. Market disruptions such as those recently experienced in the United States and abroad have materially impacted liquidity in the credit and debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. Continued uncertainty in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional financing or to refinance our existing credit facility or existing debt arrangements on favorable terms or at all, which could negatively affect our ability to fund current and future operations as well as future acquisitions and development. These disruptions may include turmoil in the financial services industry, unprecedented volatility in the markets where our outstanding securities trade, and general economic downturns in the areas where we do business. If we are unable to access monies at competitive rates, or if our short-term or long-term borrowings costs dramatically increase, our ability to finance our operations, meet our short-term obligations and implement our operating strategy could be adversely affected. Our financial results are subject to considerable cyclicality. Our ability to be profitable depends heavily on varying conditions in the United States government and municipal markets and the overall United States economy. The industrial markets in which we compete are subject to considerable cyclicality, and move in response to cycles in the overall business environment. Many of our customers are municipal governmental agencies, and as such, we are dependent on municipal government spending. Spending by our municipal customers can be affected by local political circumstances, budgetary constraints, and other factors. The United States government and municipalities depend heavily on tax revenues as a source of their spending and, accordingly, there is a historical correlation, of a one or two year lag between the overall strength of the United States economy and our sales to the United States government and municipalities. Therefore, downturns in the United States economy are likely to result in decreases in demand for our products. During previous economic downturns, we experienced decreases in sales and profitability, and we expect our business to remain subject to similar economic fluctuations in the future. The inability to obtain raw materials, component parts, and/or finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products. We purchase raw materials and component parts from suppliers to be used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we purchase certain finished goods from suppliers. Changes in our relationships with suppliers or increases in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or our inability to market products. In addition, our profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers. 5 Table of Contents We operate in highly competitive markets. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The intensity of this competition, which is expected to continue, can result in price discounting and margin pressures throughout the industry and adversely affects our ability to increase or maintain prices for our products. In addition, certain of our competitors may have lower overall labor or material costs. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic and political uncertainties. Our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and changing international economic and political conditions which are beyond our control. During 2009, approximately 44% of our sales were to customers outside the United States; with approximately 31% of sales being supplied from our overseas operations. We expect a significant and increasing portion of our revenues and profits to come from international sales for the foreseeable future. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks, including abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations and, in some cases, international hostilities. To the extent that our international operations are affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses which could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. Some of our contracts are denominated in foreign currencies, which result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Although currency exposure is hedged in the short term, over the longer term changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. Failure to keep pace with technological developments may adversely affect our operations. We are engaged in an industry which will be affected by future technological developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new technologies could render our existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, processes and applications that keep pace with technological developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and product or process enhancements. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes. Our products, applications or processes may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or product or process enhancements or if our products do not gain market acceptance. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including finance personnel, research professionals, technical sales professionals and engineers. The loss of the services of any key employee or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, recall claims or other lawsuits or claims that may be brought against us. We are exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the normal course of business in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected or the use of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or property damage. Accordingly, we could experience material warranty or product liability costs in the future and incur significant costs to defend against these claims. We carry insurance and maintain reserves for product liability claims. However, we cannot be assured that our insurance coverage will be adequate if such claims do arise, and any liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our results 6 Table of Contents of operations and financial position. A future claim could involve the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to state laws, may not be covered by insurance. In addition, warranty or other claims are not typically covered by insurance coverage. Any product liability or warranty issues may adversely impact our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality, safe products and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The costs associated with complying with environmental and safety regulations could lower our margins. We, like other manufacturers, continue to face heavy governmental regulation of our products, especially in the areas of the environment and employee health and safety. Complying with environmental and safety requirements has added and will continue to add to the cost of our products, and could increase the capital required. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, we may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to our operations under existing laws or those that may be adopted. These requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Therefore, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions as a result of violations, or liabilities under, environmental laws and safety regulations. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long lived assets. Future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareholders’ equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which may result in an event of default on our credit facility and other debt facilities. Upon an event of default, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable. We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants. Our credit facility and other debt instruments contain certain restrictive debt covenants and other customary events of default that may hinder our ability to continue operating or to take advantage of attractive business opportunities. These restrictive covenants include, among other things, an interest coverage ratio of 3.00:1 in all quarters and a maximum debt-to-total-capitalization ratio of 0.5:1.0. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants may be affected by the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors outside our control. Failure to comply with one or more of these restrictive covenants may result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, if not waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable. If we are unable to comply with the restrictive covenants in the future, we would be required to obtain further modifications from our lenders or secure another source of financing. If our current lenders accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis. In addition, these restrictive covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions and taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. Our strategy to pursue growth through selective acquisitions may not be successful. Our long-term strategy includes expanding into adjacent markets through selective acquisitions of companies, complementary technologies and organic growth. This strategy may involve the acquisition of companies that enable us to build on our existing strength in a market or that give us access to proprietary technologies that are strategically valuable or allows us to leverage our distribution channels. In connection with this strategy, we could face certain risks and uncertainties in addition to those we face in the day-to-day operations of our business. The acquisitions that we may consider may not be successfully consummated. Our acquisition activities can be disrupted by overtures from competitors for the targeted candidates, governmental regulation and rapid developments in our industry. We may face additional risks and uncertainties following an acquisition including: (i) the difficulty in integrating the newly-acquired business and operations in an efficient and effective manner; (ii) the 7 Table of Contents inability to achieve strategic objectives, cost savings, expected levels of profitability and other benefits from the acquisition; (iii) the lack of success by the acquired business in its markets; (iv) the loss of key employees of the acquired business; (v) the diversion of the attention of senior management from our operations; and (vi) the liabilities that were not known at the time of the acquisition or the need to address tax or accounting issues. If we fail to timely recognize or address these matters or to devote adequate resources to them, we may fail to achieve our growth strategy or otherwise realize the intended benefits of the acquisition. Even if we are unable to integrate our business operations successfully, the integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, profitability, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from the integration or that the benefits will be achieved within the forcasted period of time. In addition, our acquisition activities could require us to secure additional debt or equity financing, which we may not be able to secure on favorable terms or at all. Our efforts to develop new products and services or enhance existing products and services involve substantial research, development and marketing expenses, and the resulting new or enhanced products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to justify the expense. We place a high priority on developing new products and services, as well as enhancing our existing products and services. As a result of these efforts, we may be required to expend substantial research, development and marketing resources, and the time and expense required to develop a new product or service or enhance an existing product or service are difficult to predict. We may not succeed in developing, introducing or marketing new products or services or product or service enhancements. In addition, we cannot be certain that any new or enhanced product or service will generate sufficient revenue to justify the expense and resources devoted to this product diversification effort. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 