ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The future success and continued viability of Energen and its businesses, like any venture, is subject to many recognized and unrecognized risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management. The following list identifies and briefly summarizes certain risk factors, and should not be viewed as complete or comprehensive. The Company undertakes no obligation to correct or update such risk factors whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the Company’s disclosure specific to Forward-Looking Statements made elsewhere in this report. Commodity Prices: The Company and Alagasco are significantly influenced by commodity prices. Historical markets for natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids have been volatile. Energen Resources’ revenues, operating results, profitability and cash flows depend primarily upon the prices realized for its oil, gas and natural gas liquid production. Additionally, downward commodity price trends may impact expected cash flows from future production and potentially reduce the carrying value of Company-owned oil and natural gas properties. Alagasco’s competitive position and customer demand is significantly influenced by prices for natural gas which are passed-through to customers. Access to Credit Markets: The Company and its subsidiaries rely on access to credit markets. The availability and cost of credit market access is significantly influenced by market events and rating agency evaluations for both lenders and the Company. Recent market volatility and credit market disruption have demonstrated that credit availability and issuer credit ratings can change rapidly. Events negatively affecting credit ratings and credit market liquidity could increase borrowing costs or limit availability of funds to the Company. Energen Resources’ Hedging: Although Energen Resources makes use of futures, swaps, options, collars and fixed-price contracts to mitigate price risk, fluctuations in future oil, gas and natural gas liquids prices could materially affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows; furthermore, such risk mitigation activities may cause the Company’s financial position and results of operations to be materially different from results that would have been obtained had such risk mitigation activities not occurred. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation assumes that counterparties maintain satisfactory credit quality. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation also assumes that actual sales volumes will generally meet or exceed the volumes subject to the futures, swaps, options, collars and fixed-price contracts. A substantial failure to meet sales volume targets, whether caused by miscalculations, weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise, could leave Energen Resources financially exposed to its counterparties and result in material adverse financial consequences to Energen Resources and the Company. The adverse effect could be increased if the adverse event was widespread enough to move market prices against Energen Resources’ position. In addition, the recent adoption of financial reform legislation could have an adverse effect on the ability of Energen Resources to use derivative instruments which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Alagasco’s Hedging: Similarly, although Alagasco makes use of futures, swaps and fixed-price contracts to mitigate gas supply cost risk, fluctuations in future gas supply costs could materially affect its financial position and rates to customers. The effectiveness of Alagasco’s risk mitigation assumes that its counterparties in such activities maintain satisfactory credit quality. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation also assumes that Alagasco’s actual gas supply needs will generally meet or exceed the volumes subject to the futures, swaps and fixed-price contracts. A substantial failure to experience projected gas supply needs, whether caused by miscalculations, weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise, could leave Alagasco financially exposed to its counterparties and result in material adverse financial consequences to Alagasco and the Company. The adverse effect could be increased if the adverse event was widespread enough to move market prices against Alagasco’s position. In addition, the recent adoption of financial reform legislation could have an adverse effect on the ability of Alagasco to use derivative instruments which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Energen Resources Customer Concentration: Revenues and related accounts receivable from oil and gas operations primarily are generated from the sale of produced oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids to a small number of energy marketing companies. Such sales are typically made on an unsecured credit basis with payment due the month following delivery. This concentration of sales to a limited number of customers in the energy marketing industry has the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, based on changes in economic, industry or other conditions specific to a single customer or to the energy marketing industry generally. Energen Resources considers the credit quality of its customers and, in certain instances, may require credit assurances such as a deposit, letter of credit or parent guarantee. Third Party Facilities: Energen Resources delivers to and Alagasco is served by third party facilities. These facilities include third party oil and gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities. Energen Resources relies upon such facilities for access to markets for its production. Alagasco relies upon such facilities for access to natural gas supplies. Such facilities are typically limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities, whether caused by weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise could result in material adverse financial consequences to Energen Resources, Alagasco and the Company. Energen Resources’ Production and Drilling: There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The total amount or timing of actual future production may vary significantly from reserve and production estimates. In the event Energen Resources is unable to fully invest its planned development, acquisition and exploratory expenditures, future operating revenues, production, and proved reserves could be negatively affected. The drilling of development and exploratory wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, success rates and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by lease and rig availability, complex geology and other factors. Anticipated drilling plans and capital expenditures may also change due to weather, manpower and equipment availability, changing emphasis by management and a variety of other factors which could result in actual drilling and capital expenditures being substantially different than currently planned. Operations: Inherent in the gas distribution activities of Alagasco and the oil and gas production activities of Energen Resources are a variety of hazards and operation risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to the Company. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. Further, the Company’s insurance retention levels are such that significant events could adversely affect Energen Resources’, Alagasco’s and the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect Alagasco’s, Energen Resources’ and the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Alagasco’s Service Territory: Alagasco’s utility customers are geographically concentrated in central and north Alabama. Significant economic, weather, natural disaster, criminal act or other events that adversely affect this region could adversely affect Alagasco and the Company. Federal, State and Local Laws and Regulations: Energen and Alagasco are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation which significantly influences operations. Although the Company believes that operations generally comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply could result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject the Company to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Federal, state and local legislative bodies and agencies frequently exercise their respective authority to adopt new laws and regulations and to amend, modify and interpret existing laws and regulations. Such changes can subject the Company to significant tax or cost increases and can impose significant restrictions and limitations on the Company’s operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 12 Table of Contents 