Item 1A. Risk Factors.We may occasionally make forward-looking statements and estimates such as forecasts and projections of our future performance or statements of our plans and objectives. These forward-looking statements may be contained in, but are not limited to, filings with the SEC, including this Form 10-K, press releases made by us, and oral statements made by our officers. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those contained in such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the risks described below.Our financial results are subject to U.S. economic uncertainty.In 2013, we generated approximately 65% of our net sales in the U.S. Our ability to be profitable depends heavily on varying conditions in the U.S. governmental and municipal markets and the overall U.S. economy. The industrial markets in which we compete are subject to considerable cyclicality, and move in response to cycles in the overall business environment. Many of 5Table of Contentsour customers are municipal government agencies, and as a result, we are dependent on municipal government spending. Spending by our municipal customers can be affected by local political circumstances, budgetary constraints and other factors. The U.S. government and municipalities depend heavily on tax revenues as a source of their spending and accordingly, there is a historical correlation of a one or two year lag between the overall strength of the U.S. economy and our sales to the U.S. government and municipalities. Therefore, downturns in the U.S. economy are likely to result in decreases in demand for our products. During previous economic downturns, we experienced decreases in sales and profitability, and we expect our business to remain subject to similar economic fluctuations in the future.We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic and political uncertainties and foreign currency rate fluctuations.Our business is subject to fluctuations in demand and changing international economic and political conditions that are beyond our control. In 2013, 35% of our net sales were generated outside the U.S. and we expect a significant portion of our revenues to come from international sales for the foreseeable future. Operating in the international marketplace exposes us to a number of risks, including abrupt changes in foreign government policies and regulations, restrictive domestic and international trade regulations, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and the U.K. Bribery Act, political and economic instability, local labor market conditions, the imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers and, in some cases, international hostilities. To the extent that our international operations are affected by unexpected and adverse foreign economic and political conditions, we may experience project disruptions and losses which could significantly reduce our revenues and profits. In addition, penalties for any such non-compliance with laws applicable to international business and trade, such as the FCPA, could negatively impact our business.Some of our contracts are denominated in foreign currencies, which results in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies over the longer term could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our profits.We are subject to a number of restrictive debt covenants.In March 2013, we entered into a credit facility for a period of five years ending March 2018. The proceeds from this credit facility were used to refinance the majority of the Company’s then existing indebtedness, including the Company’s secured credit facility and term loan. The new credit facility contains certain restrictive debt covenants and other customary events of default. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants may be affected by the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors outside of our control. Failure to comply with one or more of these restrictive covenants may result in an event of default. Upon an event of default, if not cured by us or waived by our lenders, our lenders may declare all amounts outstanding as due and payable. If our current lenders thereby accelerate the maturity of our indebtedness, we may not have sufficient capital available at that time to pay the amounts due to our lenders on a timely basis. In addition, these restrictive covenants may prevent us from engaging in transactions that benefit us, including responding to changing business and economic conditions and taking advantage of attractive business opportunities.The execution of our growth strategy is dependent upon the continued availability of credit and third-party financing arrangements for our customers.Economic downturns result in tighter credit markets, which could adversely affect our customers’ ability to secure financing or to secure financing at favorable terms or interest rates necessary to proceed or continue with purchases of our products and services. Our customers’ or potential customers’ inability to secure financing for projects could result in the delay, cancellation or downsizing of new purchases or the suspension of purchases already under contract, which could cause a decline in the demand for our products and services and negatively impact our revenues and earnings.Our efforts to develop new products and services or enhance existing products and services involve substantial research, development and marketing expenses, and the resulting new or enhanced products or services may not generate sufficient revenues to justify the expense.We place a high priority on developing new products and services, as well as enhancing our existing products and services. As a result of these efforts, we may be required to expend substantial research, development and marketing resources, and the time and expense required to develop a new product or service or enhance an existing product or service are difficult to predict. We may not succeed in developing, introducing or marketing new products or services or product or service enhancements. In addition, we cannot be certain that any new or enhanced product or service will generate sufficient revenue to justify the expense and resources devoted to this product diversification effort.6Table of ContentsWe could incur restructuring and impairment charges as we continue to evaluate opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our manufacturing operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure.We continue to evaluate opportunities to restructure our business and rationalize our manufacturing operations in an effort to optimize our cost structure. These actions could result in significant charges which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Future actions could result in restructuring and related charges, including but not limited to impairments, employee termination costs and charges for pension and other postretirement contractual benefits and pension curtailments that could be significant. We have a substantial amount of goodwill, which is subject to periodic impairment analysis and review. Identifying and assessing whether impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating results, competition and general economic conditions, requires significant judgment. Any of the above future actions could result in charges that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.We operate in highly competitive markets.The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. The intensity of this competition, which is expected to continue, can result in price discounting and margin pressures throughout the industry and may adversely affect our ability to increase or maintain prices for our products. In addition, certain of our competitors may have lower overall labor or material costs. In addition, our contracts with municipal and other governmental customers are in some cases awarded and renewed through competitive bidding. We may not be successful in obtaining or renewing these contracts, which could be harmful to our business and financial performance.We may incur material losses and costs as a result of product liability, warranty, recall claims, client service interruption or other lawsuits or claims that may be brought against us.We are exposed to product liability and warranty claims in the normal course of business in the event that our products actually or allegedly fail to perform as expected, or the use of our products results or is alleged to result in bodily injury and/or property damage. For example, we have been sued by firefighters seeking damages claiming that exposure to our sirens has impaired their hearing and that the sirens are, therefore, defective. In addition, we are subject to other claims and litigation from time to time as further described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We could experience material warranty or product liability costs in the future and incur significant costs to defend ourselves against these claims. We carry insurance and maintain reserves for product liability claims. However, we cannot assure that our insurance coverage will be adequate if such claims do arise, and any defense costs and liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. A future claim could involve the imposition of punitive damages, the award of which, pursuant to state laws, may not be covered by insurance. In addition, warranty and certain other claims are not typically covered by insurance. Any product liability or warranty issues may adversely impact our reputation as a manufacturer of high quality, safe products and may have a material adverse effect on our business.Failure to keep pace with technological developments may adversely affect our operations.We are engaged in an industry which will be affected by future technological developments. The introduction of products or processes utilizing new technologies could render our existing products or processes obsolete or unmarketable. Our success will depend upon our ability to develop and introduce on a timely and cost-effective basis new products, applications and processes that keep pace with technological developments and address increasingly sophisticated customer requirements. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, applications and processes and product or process enhancements. We may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of product or process enhancements or new products, applications or processes. Our products, applications or processes may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we were to incur delays in developing new products, applications or processes or product or process enhancements, or if our products do not gain market acceptance.The inability to obtain raw materials, component parts, and/or finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner from suppliers would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and market our products.We purchase from suppliers raw materials and component parts to be used in the manufacturing of our products. In addition, we purchase certain finished goods from suppliers. Changes in our relationships with suppliers, shortages, production delays, regulatory restrictions or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely manufacture and market products. In addition, increases in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or our inability to market products. In addition, our profit margins would decrease if prices of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods increase and we are unable to pass on those increases to our customers.7Table of ContentsOur ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel.Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends in part on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including finance personnel, research professionals, technical sales professionals and engineers. The loss of the services of any key employee or the failure to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects.Disruptions within our dealer network could adversely affect our business.We rely on a national and global dealer network to market certain of our products and services. A disruption in our dealer network within a specific local market could have an adverse impact on our business within the affected market. In addition, the loss or termination of a significant number of dealers could cause difficulties in marketing and distributing our products and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Our business may be adversely impacted by work stoppages and other labor relations matters.We are subject to risk of work stoppages and other labor relations matters because a portion of our workforce is unionized. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 26% of our U.S. hourly workers were represented by labor unions and were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Many of these agreements include provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings. Any strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in connection with the negotiation of new labor agreements or otherwise could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce structural costs and improve production efficiencies. Our pension funding requirements and expenses are affected by certain factors outside of our control, including the performance of plan assets, the discount rate used to value liabilities, actuarial assumptions and experience and legal and regulatory changes.Our funding obligations and pension expense for our defined benefit pension plans are driven by the performance of assets set aside in trusts for these plans, the discount rate used to value the plans’ liabilities, actuarial assumptions and experience and legal and regulatory funding requirements. Changes in these factors could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, liquidity or shareholders’ equity. In addition, a portion of our pension plan assets are invested in equity securities, which can experience significant declines if financial markets weaken. The level of the funding of our defined benefit pension plan liabilities was approximately 88% as of December 31, 2013. Our future pension expenses and funding requirements could increase significantly due to the effect of adverse changes in the discount rate, asset values, or the estimated expected return on plan assets. In addition, the Company could be legally required to make increased contributions to the pension plans, and these contributions could be material and negatively affect our cash flow.The costs associated with complying with environmental and safety regulations could lower our margins.We, like other manufacturers, continue to face heavy governmental regulation of our products, especially in the areas of the environment and employee health and safety. Complying with environmental and safety requirements has added and will continue to add to the cost of our products, and could increase the capital required to support our business. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these laws and regulations, we may be adversely impacted by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to our operations under existing laws or those that may be adopted. These requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Therefore, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions as a result of violation of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and safety regulations.Our ability to use NOL carryovers to reduce future tax payments could be negatively impacted if there is a change in our ownership or a failure to generate sufficient taxable income.Presently, the only U.S. federal NOLs we have remaining are from previously acquired companies and hence are limited to specific annual amounts as required by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (“Section 382”). Additionally, if an ownership change, as defined in Section 382, occurs with respect to our capital stock, our ability to use these NOLs would be additionally limited to more restrictive specific annual amounts. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership by more than 50% of our total capital stock in a three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use domestic NOLs to reduce taxable income is generally limited to an annual amount based on the fair market value of our stock immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate. NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the 20-year carryforward period and can be used to offset taxable income for years within the carryover period 8Table of Contentssubject to the limitation in each year. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected. If more than a 50% ownership change were to occur, use of our NOLs to reduce payments of federal taxable income may be deferred to later years within the 20-year carryover period; however, if the carryover period for any loss year expires, the use of the remaining NOLs for the loss year will be prohibited. If we should fail to generate a sufficient level of taxable income prior to the expiration of the NOL carryforward periods, then we will lose the ability to apply the NOLs as offsets to future taxable income.An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.Goodwill is recorded at fair value at the time of acquisition and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. In evaluating the potential for impairment of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding future operating performance, business trends, and market and economic conditions. Such analyses further require us to make certain assumptions about our sales, operating margins, growth rates, and discount rates. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and in applying these factors to the assessment of goodwill recoverability. Goodwill reviews are prepared using estimates of the fair value of reporting units, which incorporate estimates of the present value of future discounted cash flows. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, a divestiture of a significant component of our business, or market capitalization declines.If the future operating performance of our reporting units is not consistent with our assumptions, we could be required to record non-cash impairment charges. Impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods such charges are recorded. As of December 31, 2013, total consolidated goodwill was approximately 42% of total consolidated assets.We may be unsuccessful in our future acquisitions, if any, which may have an adverse effect on our business.Our long-term strategy includes expanding into adjacent markets through selective acquisitions of companies, or of complementary products and services, that could enhance our global market position and broaden our product offerings. This strategy may involve the acquisition of companies that, among other things, enable us to build on our existing strength in a market or that give us access to proprietary products and services that are strategically valuable or allow us to leverage our distribution channels. In connection with this strategy, we could face certain risks and uncertainties in addition to those we face in the day-to-day operations of our business. We also may be unable to identify suitable targets for acquisition or make acquisitions at favorable prices. If we identify a suitable acquisition candidate, our ability to successfully implement the acquisition would depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our acquisition activities could be disrupted by overtures from competitors for the targeted companies, governmental regulation, and rapid developments in our industry that decrease the value of a target’s products or services.Acquisitions involve risks, including those associated with the following:•integrating the operations, financial reporting, disparate systems and processes and personnel of acquired companies;•managing geographically dispersed operations;•diverting management’s attention from other business concerns;•entering markets or lines of business in which we have either limited or no direct experience; and•potentially losing key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies.We also may not achieve anticipated revenue and cost benefits. Acquisitions may not be accretive to our earnings and may negatively impact our results of operations as a result of, among other things, the incurrence of debt, write-offs of goodwill and amortization expenses of other intangible assets. In addition, future acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities.Businesses acquired by us may have liabilities which are not known to us.We may assume liabilities in connection with the acquisition of businesses. There may be liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on the acquired businesses. In these circumstances, we cannot assure that our rights to indemnification from sellers of the acquired businesses to us will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the businesses or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.None.9Table of Contents