ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Third Party Facilities: Energen Resources delivers to and Alagasco is served by third party facilities. These facilities include third party oil and gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities. Energen Resources relies upon such facilities for access to markets for its production. Alagasco relies upon such facilities for access to natural gas supplies. Such facilities are typically limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities, whether caused by weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise could result in material adverse financial consequences to Alagasco, Energen Resources and/or the Company. Energen Resources’ Production and Drilling: There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The total amount or timing of actual future production may vary significantly from reserve and production estimates. In the event Energen Resources is unable to fully invest its planned development, acquisition and exploratory expenditures, future operating revenues, production, and proved reserves could be negatively affected. The drilling of development and exploratory wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, success rates and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by lease and rig availability, complex geology and other factors. Anticipated drilling plans and capital expenditures may also change due to weather, manpower and equipment availability, changing emphasis by management and a variety of other factors which could result in actual drilling and capital expenditures being substantially different than currently planned. Energen Resources’ Hedging: Although Energen Resources makes use of futures, swaps, options and fixed-price contracts to mitigate price risk, fluctuations in future oil, gas and natural gas liquids prices could materially affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows; furthermore, such risk mitigation activities may cause the Company’s financial position and results of operations to be materially different from results that would have been obtained had such risk mitigation activities not occurred. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation assumes that counterparties maintain satisfactory credit quality. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation also assumes that actual sales volumes will generally meet or exceed the volumes subject to the futures, swaps, options and fixed-price contracts. A substantial failure to meet sales volume targets, whether caused by miscalculations, weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise, could leave Energen Resources financially exposed to its counterparties and result in material adverse financial consequences to Energen Resources and the Company. The adverse effect could be increased if the adverse event was widespread enough to move market prices against Energen Resources’ position. Alagasco’s Hedging: Similarly, although Alagasco makes use of futures, swaps and fixed-price contracts to mitigate gas supply cost risk, fluctuations in future gas supply costs could materially affect its financial position and rates to customers. The effectiveness of Alagasco’s risk mitigation assumes that its counterparties in such activities maintain satisfactory credit quality. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation also assumes that Alagasco’s actual gas supply needs will generally meet or exceed the volumes subject to the futures, swaps and fixed-price contracts. A substantial failure to experience projected gas supply needs, whether caused by miscalculations, weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise, could leave Alagasco financially exposed to its counterparties and result in material adverse financial consequences to Alagasco and the Company. The adverse effect could be increased if the adverse event was widespread enough to move market prices against Alagasco’s position. Operations: Inherent in the gas distribution activities of Alagasco and the oil and gas production activities of Energen Resources are a variety of hazards and operation risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to the Company. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. The location of pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect Alagasco’s, Energen Resources’ and/or the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 11 Energen Resources Customer Concentration: Revenues and related accounts receivable from oil and gas operations primarily are generated from the sale of produced oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids to energy marketing companies. Such sales are typically made on an unsecured credit basis with payment due the month following delivery. This concentration of sales to the energy marketing industry has the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that the Company’s oil and gas purchasers may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry or other conditions. Energen Resources considers the credit quality of its customers and, in certain instances, may require credit assurances such as a deposit, letter of credit or parent guarantee. The four largest oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids purchasers account for approximately 22 percent, 14 percent, 11 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of Energen Resources’ estimated 2008 production. Energen Resources’ other purchasers each bought less than 8 percent of production. Alagasco’s Service Territory: Alagasco’s utility customers are geographically concentrated in central and north Alabama. Significant economic, weather, natural disaster, criminal act or other events that adversely affect this region could adversely affect Alagasco and the Company. Access to Credit Markets: The Company and its subsidiaries rely on access to credit markets. The availability and cost of credit market access is significantly influenced by rating agency evaluations of the Company and of Alagasco. Events affecting credit market liquidity could increase borrowing costs or limit availability of funds. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 12 