ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe future success and continued viability of Energen and its businesses, like any venture, is subject to many recognized and unrecognized risks and uncertainties. Such risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this report and presented elsewhere by management. The following list identifies and briefly summarizes certain risk factors, and should not be viewed as complete or comprehensive. The Company undertakes no obligation to correct or update such risk factors whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the Company’s disclosure specific to Forward-Looking Statements made elsewhere in this report.Commodity prices for crude oil and natural gas are volatile, and a substantial reduction in commodity prices could adversely affect the Company's results and the carrying value of its oil and natural gas properties: The Company and Alagasco are significantly influenced by commodity prices. Historical markets for natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids have been volatile. Energen Resources’ revenues, operating results, profitability and cash flows depend primarily upon the prices realized for its oil, gas and natural gas liquid production. Additionally, downward commodity price trends may impact expected cash flows from future production and potentially reduce the carrying value of Company-owned oil and natural gas properties. Alagasco’s competitive position and customer demand is significantly influenced by prices for natural gas which are passed-through to customers.Market conditions or a downgrade in the Company's credit rating could negatively impact its cost of and ability to access capital for future development and working capital needs: The Company and its subsidiaries rely on access to credit markets. The availability and cost of credit market access is significantly influenced by market events and rating agency evaluations for both lenders and the Company. Market volatility and credit market disruption may severely limit credit availability and issuer credit ratings can change rapidly. Events negatively affecting credit ratings and credit market liquidity could increase borrowing costs or limit availability of funds to the Company. Energen Resources' hedging activities may prevent Energen Resources from benefiting fully from price increases and expose Energen Resources to other risks, including counterparty credit risk: Although Energen Resources makes use of futures, swaps, options, collars and fixed-price contracts to mitigate price risk, fluctuations in future oil, gas and natural gas liquids prices could materially affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows; furthermore, such risk mitigation activities may cause the Company's financial position and results of operations to be materially different from results that would have been obtained had such risk mitigation activities not occurred. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation assumes that counterparties maintain satisfactory credit quality. The effectiveness of such risk mitigation also assumes that actual sales volumes will generally meet or exceed the volumes subject to the futures, swaps, options, collars and fixed-price contracts. A substantial failure to meet sales volume targets, whether caused by miscalculations, weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise, could leave Energen Resources financially exposed to its counterparties and result in material adverse financial consequences to Energen Resources and the Company. The adverse effect could be increased if the adverse event was widespread enough to move market prices against Energen Resources' position. In addition, various existing and pending financial reform rules and regulations could have an adverse effect on the ability of Energen Resources to use derivative instruments which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The Company is exposed to counterparty credit risk as a result of its concentrated customer base: Revenues and related accounts receivable from oil and gas operations primarily are generated from the sale of produced oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids to a small number of energy marketing companies. Such sales are typically made on an unsecured credit basis with payment due the month following delivery. This concentration of sales to a limited number of customers in the energy marketing industry has the potential to affect the Company's overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, based on changes in economic, industry or other conditions specific to a single customer or to the energy marketing industry generally. Energen Resources considers the credit quality of its customers and, in certain instances, may require credit assurances such as a deposit, letter of credit or parent guarantee. The Company's operations depend upon the use of third party facilities and an interruption of its ability to utilize these facilities may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations: Energen Resources delivers to and Alagasco is served by third party facilities. These facilities include third party oil and gas gathering, transportation, processing and storage facilities. Energen Resources relies upon such facilities for access to markets for its production. Alagasco relies upon such facilities for access to natural gas supplies. Such facilities are typically limited in number and geographically concentrated. An extended interruption of access to or service from these facilities, whether caused by weather events, natural disaster, accident, mechanical failure, criminal act or otherwise could result in material adverse financial consequences to Energen Resources, Alagasco and the Company.10The Company's oil and natural gas reserves are estimates, and actual future production may vary significantly and may also be negatively impacted by its inability to invest in production on planned timelines: There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The total amount or timing of actual future production may vary significantly from reserve and production estimates. In the event Energen Resources is unable to fully invest its planned development, acquisition and exploratory expenditures, future operating revenues, production, and proved reserves could be negatively affected. The drilling of development and exploratory wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, success rates and cost overruns, and these risks can be affected by lease and rig availability, complex geology and other factors. Anticipated drilling plans and capital expenditures may also change due to weather, manpower and equipment availability, changing emphasis by management and a variety of other factors which could result in actual drilling and capital expenditures being substantially different than currently planned.The Company's operations involve operational risk including risk of personal injury, property damage and environmental damage and its insurance policies do not cover all such risks: Inherent in the oil and gas production activities of Energen Resources and the gas distribution activities of Alagasco are a variety of hazards and operation risks, such as:•Pipeline and storage leaks, ruptures and spills;•Equipment malfunctions and mechanical failures;•Fires and explosions;•Well blowouts, explosions and cratering; and•Soil, surface water or groundwater contamination from petroleum constituents, hydraulic fracturing fluid, or produced water. Such events could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial financial losses. The location of certain of our pipeline and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses and the insurance coverages are subject to retention levels and coverage limits. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect Energen Resources', Alagasco's and the Company's financial positions, results of operations and cash flows. Alagasco operates in a limited service territory and is therefore subject to concentrated regional risks which may negatively affect Alagasco's financial condition and results of operations: Alagasco’s utility customers are geographically concentrated in central and north Alabama. Significant economic, weather, natural disaster, criminal act or other events that adversely affect this region could adversely affect Alagasco and the Company. The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or impose significant restrictions on its operations: Energen and Alagasco are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation which significantly influences operations. Although the Company believes that operations generally comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply could result in the suspension or termination of operations and subject the Company to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Federal, state and local legislative bodies and agencies frequently exercise their respective authority to adopt new laws and regulations and to amend, modify and interpret existing laws and regulations. Such changes can subject the Company to significant tax or cost increases and can impose significant restrictions and limitations on the Company's operations.The Company's business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and related disruptions: The Company relies on its information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information critical for the efficient operation of its business and day-to-day operations. All information systems are potentially vulnerable to security threats, including hacking, viruses, other malicious software, and other unlawful attempts to disrupt or gain access to such systems. Breaches in the Company's information technology infrastructure could lead to a material disruption in its business, including the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or other business information, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations, financial position and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone11