Risk Factors The following is a brief discussion of those distinctive or special characteristics of the Company’s operations and industry, which may have a material impact on, or constitute risk factors in respect of, the Company’s future financial performance. Exploration and Development Risks The Company is engaged in the business of acquiring and exploring mineral properties in the expectation of locating mineral reserves. The Company’s property interests are in the exploration - 13 - stage only and are without a known body of commercial ore. Accordingly, there is little likelihood that the Company will realize any profits in the short to medium term. Any profitability in the future from the Company’s business will be dependent upon locating mineral reserves, which itself is subject to numerous risk factors. The business of exploring for minerals and mining involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing, profitable mines. In developing its mineral deposits, the Company will be subjected to an array of complex economic factors and accordingly there is no assurance that a positive feasibility study or any projected results contained in a feasibility study of a mineral deposit will be attained. Technical considerations, delays in obtaining governmental approvals, inability to obtain financing or other factors could cause delays in developing properties. Such delays could materially adversely affect the financial performance of the Company. The business of mining is subject to a variety of risks such as cave-ins and other accidents, flooding, environmental hazards, the discharge of toxic chemicals and other hazards. Such occurrences may delay production, increase production costs or result in liability. The Company may have insurance in amounts that it considers to be adequate to protect itself against certain risks of mining and processing. However, the Company may become subject to liability for hazards against which it cannot insure itself or which it may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. In particular, the Company is not insured for environmental liability or earthquake damage. Title Matters While the Company believes title to all of its properties is in good standing, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title. Other parties (including indigenous landowners) may dispute title to the mining properties in which the Company has an interest or the right to acquire an interest. The properties may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfer or land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. Only a small number of the mining claims in which the Company has an interest are held under governmental lease or patent. Accordingly, other parties may dispute the Company’s title to its mining and other interests. Such claims may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may also be liens or other encumbrances registered against the Company’s mining claims from time to time. The Company has entered into, or may enter into, contractual arrangements to acquire interests in resource properties with governments or governmental agencies. Such contractual arrangements may be difficult to enforce. Insurance The Company currently has little or no insurance coverage for its plant and related equipment at any of its properties. In the event of one or more uninsured losses, any one of the Company’s current projects would be rendered uneconomic. Environmental and other Regulatory Requirements The Company’s potential mining and processing operations and exploration activities in Canada are subject to various federal, territorial and provincial laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by - 14 - governmental agencies and may require that the Company obtain permits from various governmental agencies. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations which currently apply to its various activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits which the Company may require for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or that such laws and regulations would not have an adverse effect on any mining project which the Company might undertake. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions there-under, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. Competition Significant and increasing competition exists for the limited number of diamond/gemstone/precious and base metals acquisition opportunities available in Canada, the United States and beyond. As a result of this competition, some of which is with large established mining companies with substantial capabilities and greater financial and technical resources than the Company, the Company may be unable to acquire additional attractive opportunities on terms it considers acceptable. Currency Fluctuations The Company maintains its accounts in Canadian Dollars. The Company’s operations are all situated within Canada and therefore, are not subject to foreign currency fluctuations. The Company does not at the present, nor in the future plan to engage in foreign currency transactions to hedge exchange rate risks. Mineral Prices The mining industry in general is intensely competitive and there is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of mineral resources are discovered, a profitable market will exist for the sale of same. Factors beyond the control of the Company may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. The price of gold and gemstones has experienced volatile and significant price movements over short periods of time, and is affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations (specifically, the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies), speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for diamond/gemstones/precious and base metals is affected by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major commodities producing regions and governmental policies. Sales and Refining - 15 - If production is achieved on any of the Company’s properties, the diamonds, gemstones, or precious/base metals can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout the world and it is not difficult to ascertain its market price at any particular time. Doré bars that may be produced by the Company’s future mining operations would be refined by a commercial refinery; and any precious/base metals produced would subsequently be purchased on a competitive basis. The Company believes that because of the availability of refiners, each able to supply all services that would be required by the Company, no material adverse affect is likely to result if the Company lost the services of any refiner. Because of the large number of available precious/base metals purchasers, the Company believes that it is not dependent upon the sale of its production to any customer, the loss of which would have material adverse affect on the business of the Company. Sapphires are far less common than diamonds, with large gem quality rubies being anything from 30-50 times rarer than diamonds. Rubies and sapphires dominate the world gemstone market and account for over 50% of total sales. The world market for diamonds and precious/semi-precious gemstones is maintained mostly through well established markets throughout the world. Dependence Upon Qualified Personnel The Company is dependent upon its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to attract or retain any such persons. Conflicts of Interest Certain of the directors of the Company are directors of other reporting companies and to the extent that such other companies may participate in ventures in which the Company may participate, the directors of the Company may have a conflict of interest in negotiating and concluding terms respecting the extent of such participation. In the event that such a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the directors of the Company, a director who has such a conflict will abstain from voting for or against the approval of such participation or such terms. In appropriate cases the Company will establish a special committee of independent directors to review a matter in which several directors, or management, may have a conflict. From time to time, several companies may participate in the acquisition, exploration and development of natural resource properties thereby allowing for their participating in larger programs, permit ting involvement in a greater number of programs and reducing financial exposure in respect of any one program. It may also occur that a particular company will assign all or a portion of its interest in a particular program to another of these companies due to the financial position of the company making the assignment. In accordance with the laws of the Province of British Columbia, the directors of the Company are required to act honestly, in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. In determining whether or not the Company will participate in a particular program and the interest therein to be acquired by it, the directors will primarily consider the potential benefits to the Company, the degree of risk to which the Company may be exposed and its financial position at that time. Other than as indicated, the Company has no other procedures or mechanisms to deal with conflicts of interest. Additional Funding Requirements The Company has not received cash flow from operations in the past and positive cash flow is not expected in the next few years to satisfy the Company’s operational requirements and cash commitments. In the past, the Company has relied on sales of equity securities to meet most of its cash requirements, together with management fees, property payments and sales or joint ventures of properties. There can be no assurance that funding from these sources will be sufficient in the future to satisfy operational requirements and cash commitments. - 16 - The Company currently has significant financial resources on hand to undertake all of its planned exploration programs and meet its general and administrative expenses budgeted through the current fiscal year ending 2008. The Company completed four private placement of $6,068,063 in 2007 and received $491,516 from the exercise of options/warrants, both resulting in the issuance of common shares. SEE ITEM 17. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – Note 6. The development of the Company’s properties in the future will continue to depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain financing through any or all of the joint venturing of projects, debt financing, equity financing or other means. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining the required financing. Failure to obtain additional financing on a timely basis could cause the Company to forfeit its interest in its properties and reduce o r terminate its operations on such properties. History of Net Losses; Accumulated Deficit; Lack of Revenue From Operations The Company has incurred significant net losses to date. Its deficit as of December 31, 2007, was $11,978,406. The Company has not yet had any revenue from the exploration activities on its properties, nor has the Company yet found that development activity is warranted on any of its properties. Even if the Company does undertake development activity on any of its properties, the Company may continue to incur losses beyond the period of commencement of such activity. There is no certainty that the Company will produce revenue, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. Limited Experience with Development-Stage Mining Operations The Company has limited experience in placing resource properties into production, and its ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that the Company will have available to it the necessary expertise when and if the Company places its resource properties into production. Stock Subject to Penny Stock Rules The capital stock of the Company would be classified as “penny stock” as defined in Reg. § 2403a51-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act. In response to perceived abuse in the penny stock market generally, the Exchange Act was amended in 1990 to add new requirements in connection with penny stocks. In connection with effecting any transaction in a penny stock, a broker or dealer must give the customer a written risk disclosure document that (a) describes the nature and level of risk in the market for penny stocks in both public offerings and secondary trading, (b) describes the broker’s or dealer’s duties to the customer and the rights and remedies available to such customer with respect to violations of such duties, (c) describes the dealer market, including “bid” and “ask” prices for penny stock and the significance of the spread between the bid and ask prices, (d) contains a toll-free telephone number for inquiries on disciplinary histories of brokers and dealers, and (e) defines significant terms used in the disclosure document or the conduct of trading in penny stocks. In addition, the broker-dealer must provide to a penny stock customer a written monthly account statement that discloses the identity and number of shares of each penny stock held in the customer’s account, and the estimated market value of such shares. The extensive disclosure and other broker-dealer compliance related to penny stocks may result in reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for such stocks, thus limiting the ability of the holder to sell such stock. Environmental and Other Regulatory Requirements The current or future operations of the Company, including development activities and commencement of production on its properties, require permits from various governmental - 17 - authorities and such operations are and will be subject to laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies engaged in the development and operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. There can be no assurance that approvals and permits required to commence production on its various properties will be obtained. Additional permits and studies, which may include environmental impact studies conducted before permits can be obtained, may be necessary prior to operation of the properties in which the Company has interests and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to commence construction, development or operation of mining facilities at these properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. The Company’s potential mining and processing operations and exploration activities in Canada are subject to various federal and provincial and state laws governing land use, the protection of the environment, prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, toxic substances, mine safety and other matters. Such operations and exploration activities are also subject to substantial regulation under these laws by governmental agencies and may require that the Company obtain permits from various governmental agencies. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all material laws and regulations, which currently apply to its activities. There can be no assurance, however, that all permits the Company may require for construction of mining facilities and conduct of mining operations will be obtainable on reasonable terms or such laws and regulations would not have a material adverse effect on any mining project the Company might undertake. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions there under, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on the Company and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, it is currently operating in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations. Dividends All of the Company’s available funds will be invested to finance the growth of the Company’s business and therefore investors cannot expect and should not anticipate receiving a dividend on the Company’s common shares in the foreseeable future. Company’s Officers and Directors Resident Outside U.S.; Potential Unenforceability of Civil Liabilities and Judgments The Company and its officers are residents of countries other than the United States, and all of the Company’s assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for - 18 - investors to effect service of process within the United States upon such persons or enforce in the United States against such persons judgments obtained in the United States courts, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of United States federal securities laws or state securities laws. The Company believes that a judgment of a United States court predicated solely upon civil liability under the United States securities laws would probably be enforceable in Canada if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained has a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. However, there is doubt whether an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. If the Company is Unable to Successfully Develop and Subsequently Generate Sufficient Cash Flow from its Properties, the Company Could be treated as a Passive Foreign Investment Company for U.S. Tax Purposes, Possibly Resulting in Additional Taxes to Its U.S. Stockholders and Less Liquidity for the Stock. The Company, as a foreign corporation with U.S. stockholders, could potentially be treated as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. tax purposes. U.S. stockholders owning shares of a PFIC can be subject to adverse tax consequences. In general, the Company would be considered a PFIC if: 75% or more of its gross income in a taxable year is passive income such as dividends and interest; or, the average percentage of the Company’s assets (by value) during the taxable year which produce passive income or which are held for production of same is at least 50%. A U.S. stockholder owning shares of a PFIC, who does not make certain elections for tax purposes, is subject to an additional tax and to an interest charge based on the value of deferral of tax for the period during which the common shares of the PFIC are owned. Also, gain realized on the disposition of common shares of the PFIC would be treated as ordinary income rather than capital gains. If U.S. stockholders are subject to adverse tax consequences related to their ownership of the Company’s stock, they might be less willing to acquire the stock, which could result in reduced market activity and liquidity for the stock. 