ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Our business and future operating results may be affected by many risks, uncertainties and other factors, including those set forth below. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks, uncertainties and other factors described in this Report are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that we do not currently consider material or that are not presently known to us. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS OUR PRIMARY MARKET, THE TRADITIONAL TELCO COPPER-BASED TRANSMISSION NETWORK, HAS BEEN DECLINING OVER THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS. Principally due to the competitive impact of alternative technologies that compete with the Telco's traditional copper-based transmission network, such as cellular service and Fiber to the Premise ("FTTP"), and competition from multi-system operators ("MSOs"), there have been cutbacks in copper- 10 based construction and maintenance budgets by the Telcos and a reduction in the number of their access lines. As a result, our principal copper-based business has been adversely affected. In this regard, our major customer, Verizon, has begun its strategy to deploy FTTP. This multi-year program has resulted in a reduction of capital outlays on its traditional copper network and has, therefore, impacted our traditional protection based products since FTTP networks require less traditional protection than current copper networks. Though the full extent of the impact on the Company of this program is not yet known, the Company believes that while the current embedded copper infrastructure will continue to play a significant role as a transmission medium for years to come, it will continue to decline year to year. Further, there can be no assurance that this trend will not accelerate. NEW PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS BY US COULD BE COSTLY AND THERE IS NO CERTAINTY THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP OR MARKET THEM. In response to the trend by Telco's to move away from reliance on their cooper-based transmission network, we have been pursuing new markets with new products designed to take advantage of our proprietary overvoltage surge protection, enclosure technologies and electronic design capabilities while continuing to meet the needs of our existing customers. Our success will depend, in large measure, upon our ability to timely identify and develop new, competitively priced products to keep pace with changes in technology and customer preferences, enhance our current product offerings, and develop new products that address our customers' and the marketplace's needs for additional functionality and new technologies. In this regard we have been developing various Voice over Internet Protocol, so called VoIP products, new station electronic and other products for Telcos, MSOs and home networking products for consumers. See Item 1, "Business - Products." o The development of new products is subject to a variety of risks, including: o Our ability to determine and meet the changing needs of our customers and the marketplace, o Our ability to predict market requirements and develop new products meeting those needs in advance of the development of similar or advanced products by our competitors, o Our ability to develop and engineer products on a timely basis, within budget and at a quality and performance level that will enable us to manufacture, or have manufactured for us, and then sell on a profitable basis, o The availability or ability to obtain sufficient financing to fund any capital investments needed to develop, manufacture, market and sell new products, o Product development cycles that can be lengthy and are subject to changing requirements and unforeseen factors that can result in delays, o New products or features which may contain defects that, despite testing, are discovered only after a product has been installed and used by customers, o The market for our products is characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and product introductions and enhancements. We cannot provide assurance that products that we have recently developed or may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If our new products fail to achieve market acceptance, or if we fail to develop new or enhanced products that achieve market acceptance, our growth prospects and competitive position could be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be 11 successful in the development of new, profitable products or that we will not encounter delays, defects, or product recalls or that we will be able to respond timely to changing industry and customer needs. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON A SMALL NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS FOR MOST OF OUR REVENUE AND A DECREASE IN SALES TO THESE CUSTOMERS COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. A relatively small number of customers account for most of our revenue. Our principal customer, Verizon, accounted for 53%, 52% and 53%, and our other two principal customers, in the aggregate, accounted for 21%, 20% and 24%, of our revenue in the six month transition period ended December 31, 2005, June 24, 2005 and June 25, 2004, respectively. See Item 1, "Business - Marketing and Sales." We expect that, at least in the near term, we will continue to rely on the success of our largest customers and on our success in selling our existing and future products to those customers in significant quantities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our largest customers or that we will be able to obtain additional customers or replace key customers we may lose or who may reduce their purchases from us. The loss of one or more of these customers, or a substantial diminution in orders received from these customers, would have a material adverse effect on us. OUR CONTRACT WITH VERIZON IS A GENERAL SUPPLY CONTRACT AND, AS SUCH, VERIZON IS NOT REQUIRED TO PURCHASE ANY SPECIFIC PRODUCT FROM US AND OUR CONTRACT ALSO CONTAINS OTHER TERMS FAVORABLE TO VERIZON THAT COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. On July 8, 2005, we received a general supply agreement from Verizon, setting forth the terms under which we are to continue to provide product to Verizon, including additional approved products and an expanded territory, until March 31, 2010. General supply agreements do not require Telcos to purchase specific quantities of product and can be terminated without cause by either party, or extended by mutual written agreement. Prices, warranties, benefits, terms and conditions granted to Verizon under the Verizon agreement are fixed, but must be at least as favorable as those granted by us to other commercial customers under like or similar circumstances. The loss of Verizon as a purchaser of our products, or a substantial decrease in the orders received from Verizon, could have a material adverse effect on us. OUR DEPENDENCE UPON KEY CUSTOMERS AND LACK OF LONG TERM COMMITMENTS WITH CUSTOMERS OTHER THAN VERIZON MAKES IT EASIER FOR THOSE CUSTOMERS TO CEASE OR REDUCE PURCHASES FROM US. In most instances, our sales are made under open purchase orders received from time to time from our customers general supply contracts which cover one or more of our products. Some of those contracts permit the customer to terminate the contract due to: o the availability of more advanced technology, o our inability to deliver a product that meets the specifications on time, or o in certain cases, at any time upon notice. In addition, although most of our general supply contracts contain terms, such as the purchase price, they do not establish minimum purchase commitments. WE HAVE CERTAIN CONTRACTUAL LIMITATIONS ON PRICE INCREASES, WHICH COUPLED WITH PRICING PRESSURES, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR GROSS PROFIT MARGINS. Pricing pressures in the markets in which we operate are intense due in part to the consolidation of various telephone companies and their resulting purchasing power. Our general supply contracts generally prohibit us from increasing the price of our products to be sold under the contract for stated periods of time. Accordingly, any significant increase in our costs during those periods, without offsetting price increases, could adversely affect our gross profit margins. 12 OFFSHORE MANUFACTURING POSES A NUMBER OF RISKS. Currently we depend on offshore contract manufacturers, principally in China and Malaysia, for the timely delivery of high quality product. As a result, we are subject to risks of doing business outside the United States, including: o potential delays and added delivery expenses in meeting rapid delivery schedules of our customers o potential U.S. government sanctions, such as embargoes and restrictions on importation o potential currency fluctuations o potential labor unrest and political instability o potential restrictions on the transfer of funds o U.S. customs and tariffs o Weather, such as Typhoons that could disrupt the delivery of product from our Pacific Rim contract manufacturers, and o Health risks in the Pacific Rim region, such as bird flu or SARS. WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON SUPPLIERS OF PRODUCT COMPONENTS, THE LOSS OF WHOM COULD RESULT IN MANUFACTURING AND DELIVERY DELAYS, AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN COMPONENTS AND INCREASE PRICES TO US. Our contract manufacturers provide the components necessary to produce products for us. Generally they have no long-term supply contracts. Although we believe that substantially all components and supplies used will continue to be available in adequate quantities at competitive prices, we cannot assure you that we will not experience the absence of components or supplies, delays in obtaining their delivery or increases in prices in the future. TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES PERTAINING TO OUR OVERVOLTAGE SURGE PROTECTORS COULD RENDER THEM OBSOLETE. Our overvoltage surge protectors are based principally on gas tube technology. Solid state surge protectors have been developed for use in the telecommunications industry as a competitive technology to gas tubes. While solid state overvoltage surge protectors are faster at reacting to surges, gas tube overvoltage surge protectors have generally remained the surge protection technology of choice by most telephone companies because of the gas tube's ability to withstand significantly higher energy surges than solid state overvoltage surge protectors. However, as communications equipment becomes more complex, the speed of the protector in reacting to a surge may be perceived to be more critical than its energy handling capabilities. Also, solid state protectors can be combined with gas tubes into a hybrid overvoltage surge protector module. While hybrid surge protectors are generally more expensive and complex than gas tube surge protectors, the hybrid unit can combine the speed of a solid state unit with the energy handling capability of a gas tube unit. Although we have developed solid state and hybrid surge protectors, the development by competitors of similar products with increased energy handling capabilities, or the development of lower cost, more reliable hybrid surge protectors, could adversely affect our sales. OUR CREDIT FACILITY IMPOSES RESTRICTIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE OUR BUSINESS AND OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING WHICH MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO GROW. We currently have a credit facility in the amount of $3.0 million. The revolving credit facility is limited by a borrowing base equal to 85% of eligible accounts receivable, subject to reserves. At December 31, 2005, there were no borrowings outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The credit 13 facility requires us to maintain a tangible net worth of $12.0 million and working capital of at least $6.0 million. As of December 31, 2005, our tangible net worth was approximately $18.3 million excluding intangible assets and working capital was $15.2 million, and we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit facility. The credit facility prohibits, without the lender's consent: o our payment of cash dividends, o significant changes in our management or ownership, o business acquisitions by us, o our incurrence of additional indebtedness, other than lease obligations for the purchase of equipment, and The credit facility expires in September 2006 but will be automatically renewed for successive two year periods unless terminated by the lender at any time on 60 days notice or by us on 60 days notice prior to the end of the current term or any renewal term. Therefore, if the credit facility is renewed without modifying the covenants, the covenants will remain effective unless and until we obtain the consent of the lender, the lender terminates the credit facility or we can again terminate the credit facility in September 2008. If the amount we may borrow under the credit facility is not sufficient for our needs, we may require financing from other sources, which we may not be able to obtain until the credit facility is terminated. Our inability to obtain the financing could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. ACCOUNTING RULES FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS, OUR STOCK PRICE AND OUR COMPETITIVENESS IN THE EMPLOYEE MARKETPLACE. We have a history of using employee stock options and other stock-based compensation to hire, motivate and retain our employees. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, "Shared-based Payment," which has required us, since June 25, 2005, to measure compensation costs for all stock-based compensation, including stock options, at fair value and to recognize these costs as expenses in our statements of operations. The recognition of these expenses in our statements of operations will have a negative effect on our earnings and earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, if we reduce or alter our use of stock-based compensation to minimize the recognition of these expenses, our ability to recruit, motivate and retain employees may be impaired, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage in the employee marketplace. WE WILL INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN IMPLEMENTING, AND THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT IN A TIMELY MANNER, THE INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES NECESSARY TO ALLOW OUR MANAGEMENT TO REPORT ON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS AS REQUIRED BY THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we may be required to furnish an internal control report of management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Our independent registered public accounting firm will then be required to attest to, and report on, our management's assessment. In order to issue our report, our management must document both the design of our internal controls and the testing processes that support management's evaluation and conclusion. Compliance with Section 404 by non-accelerated filers, such as us, has been pushed back by the Securities and Exchange Commission to years ending after July 15, 2007 and, therefore, as a non-accelerated filer, we do not have to comply with Section 404 until our year ended December 31, 2007. Other proposals have been made to exempt smaller companies, such as us, from Section 404 compliance. In addition, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 14 Treadway Commission, known as COSO, on October 28, 2005, issued an exposure draft designed to assist small public companies in establishing a framework for assessing and reporting on the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting. It includes illustrative ways to design and implement effective internal controls in a cost saving manner. Final guidance is expected to be issued during the first quarter of 2006. As a result, we have not begun the necessary processes and procedures to comply with Section 404. If we are required to comply with Section 404, there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue its management report in a timely manner, that management will be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or that our independent registered public accounting firm will concur in our management's assessment. In addition, we estimate that, over the next two years, we will incur significant expenses to implement such procedures and controls, which will directly impact our results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING DIVIDENDS. We intend to retain any future earnings for use in our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our credit facility prohibits us from declaring and paying any dividends. THE ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS IN OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AND UNDER DELAWARE LAW MAY DISCOURAGE OR PREVENT TAKEOVER OFFERS WHICH COULD INCREASE THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK IF THOSE PROVISIONS DID NOT EXIST. Our certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that, while intended to enable our Board of Directors to maximize security holder value, could discourage or prevent any attempts by outsiders to obtain control of us through mergers, tender offers, proxy contests and other means and could prevent or delay changes in our management. Generally, attempts to obtain control of a company results in security holders obtaining a premium above the market price of a company's stock before the attempt is made. These provisions include the following: o a shareholder rights plan; o the ability to issue preferred stock with terms fixed by our Board of Directors at the time of their issuance without further security holder authorization; o a supermajority vote to authorize certain transactions; o a classified Board of Directors; o a requirement that directors may be removed only by stockholders for cause; o the benefits of Delaware's "anti-takeover" statutory provisions. FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE PUBLIC MARKET COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Sales of significant amounts of our common stock in the public market, including short sale transactions, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock. 15 THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has been at times, and may in the future be, subject to wide fluctuations. See Item 5, "Market For Registrant's Common Equity And Related Stockholder Matters." Factors that may adversely affect the market price of our common stock include, among other things: o quarter to quarter variations in operating results, o the occurrence of events that affect or could affect our operating results, o changes in earnings estimates by analysts, o announcements regarding technological innovations or new products by us or others, o announcements of gains or losses of significant customers or contracts, o prospects in the communications industry, o changes in the regulatory environment, o market conditions, and o the sale or attempted sale of large amounts of our common stock into the public markets. THERE IS NO ASSURANCE OF CONTINUED NASDAQ LISTING OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Although we are currently in compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market continuing listing requirements, we cannot assure you that our common stock will continue to be quoted on Nasdaq. Among other things, our common stock is required to have a minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share except during certain limited periods. The price range of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market since January 1, 2004 is indicated under Item 5, "Market For Registrant's Common Equity And Related Stockholder Matters." If we fail to maintain a Nasdaq listing by reason of the price of our common stock, our common stock will likely be traded on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board or under the quotation system maintained by Pink Sheets, LLC. In such event, the market value of our common stock could decline and security holders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. IF OUR COMMON STOCK CEASES TO BE LISTED ON NASDAQ, IT COULD BE SUBJECT TO "PENNY STOCK" REGULATIONS. Broker/dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks" are regulated by certain penny stock rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 that are not registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the Nasdaq system. Quotation on the Nasdaq OTC Bulletin Board is not sufficient to avoid being treated as a "penny stock." The penny stock rules require a broker/dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document that provides information about penny stocks and the risks in the penny stock market. The broker/dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker/dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules generally require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock, the broker/dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. If our securities become subject to the penny stock rules, investors in our securities may find it more difficult to sell their securities. 16 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 