ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating the Company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the Company’s common stock. Volatility of oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect the Company’s profitability and financial condition. The Company’s performance in terms of revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth, the value of its reserves and the carrying value of its oil and natural gas properties is significantly impacted by prevailing market prices for oil and natural gas. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas could have a material adverse effect on the Company. It could reduce the Company’s operating cash flow as well as the value and, to a lesser degree, the quantity of its oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Relatively minor changes in supply or demand can have a significant effect on oil and natural gas prices. Some of the factors affecting oil and natural gas prices which are beyond the Company’s control include: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; · worldwide and domestic demand for oil and natural gas; · the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · political instability or armed conflict in oil or natural gas producing regions; · worldwide and domestic economic conditions; · the availability of transportation facilities; · weather patterns; and · actions of governmental authorities. Competition for opportunities to replace and increase production and reserves is intense and could adversely affect the Company. Properties produce at a declining rate over time. In order to maintain its current production rates, the Company must add new oil and natural gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. Competition within the oil and natural gas industry is intense and many of the Company’s competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those available to the Company. This could place the Company at a disadvantage with respect to accessing opportunities to maintain, or increase, its oil and natural gas reserve base. The Company will utilize debt financing for partial funding of its 2012 drilling and exploration program. For the first time in the Company’s history, financing is expected to be required to fund a portion of the Company’s fiscal 2012 drilling budget. The Company has approved a drilling budget of $30,000,000 for fiscal 2012, which is about double last year’s drilling budget. Two thirds of the 7 Table of Contents 2012 drilling budget is earmarked for drilling in the Bakken and Three Forks project. Subsequent to fiscal 2011 year end, the Company has entered into an oil and gas reserves borrowing base revolving credit line with its principal bank. The initial borrowing base is $7 million but may be extended twice a year. Borrowing in 2012 is expected to range from $7 million to $12 million. The financing agreement is pending final execution of the paperwork. In future years, the Company reasonably expects that additional financing, either debt or equity, will be required. See additional information below regarding uncertainties related to the timing and costs of Bakken and Three Forks drilling due to the Company being a non-operator, and additional information below regarding projected capital expenditures and capital requirements. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding debt financing. Future cash flows and the availability of financing are subject to a number of variables, such as: · the Company’s success in locating and producing new reserves; · the level of reserves and production related to existing wells; · the prices of oil and natural gas; and · the terms of available financing. Issuing equity securities to satisfy the Company’s cash flow needs could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Debt financing may make the Company more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns. The Company is a non-operator in the North Dakota Bakken and Three Forks oil-shale play. The Company is not the “operator” for its Bakken and Three Forks acreage and is, therefore, not in control of the timing and amount of expenditures. Larger companies with more experience drilling and operating Bakken and Three Forks wells are the “operators” of the spacing units which include the Company’s leases because such companies generally own the majority (or a very large interest) in the spacing unit. The primary advantages to the Company are as follows: (i) the larger companies have much larger staffs than the Company which include people who specialize in many of the individual technical aspects of horizontal Bakken and Three Forks drilling and operations, and (ii) the larger companies generally operate many wells in the Bakken and Three Forks play and thus have the ability to compete for oil field services and product markets more effectively than the Company. The primary disadvantage of the Company being a non-operator in the Bakken and Three Forks play is that the Company is not in control of timing of drilling operations or the costs of drilling and operating the wells, and therefore, cannot reasonably predict such timing and costs until well proposals are received from the operators. In the event the Company does not meet its plan for future Calliope installations, it may be required to record an impairment of the asset. The patents underlying Calliope are carried as a non-current asset on the Company’s balance sheet and are being amortized over the average remaining life of the patents. The Company periodically evaluates this asset for realizability. The Company believes that the number of future installations will be sufficient to demonstrate recoverability of the cost. If the Company is unable to achieve the expected level of installations, it may in the future be required to record an impairment of the asset. Any such write-down would be a non-cash charge to income and would have no effect on working capital. Reserve quantities and values are subject to many variables and estimates and actual results may vary. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of the Company’s proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from those reserves. A significant negative variance in these estimates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s future performance. Reserve estimates are based on various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating reserves is complex. This process 8 Table of Contents requires significant decisions and assumptions related to the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. Reserve estimates are dependent on many variables, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. Therefore, as more information becomes available, it is reasonable to expect actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures , operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will vary from the estimates, including the timing of expenditures and revenue receipts. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the present value of reserves disclosed by the Company. Reserve estimates and valuations will be adjusted in the future as more information becomes available. As of October 31, 2011, approximately 51% of the Company’s estimated proved reserves are classified as proved undeveloped. Estimation of proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves is generally based on volumetric calculations rather than the performance data used to estimate reserves for producing properties. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Revenues from proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves will not be realized until the related wells are drilled. The reserve estimate includes an estimate of the capital expenditures required to develop these reserves as well as the timing of such expenditures. Although the Company’s independent engineers have prepared estimates of its proved undeveloped reserves and the associated development costs in accordance with industry standards, actual results are likely to vary from those estimates. You should not interpret the present value of estimated reserves, or PV-10, as the current market value of reserves attributable to the Company’s properties. The 10% discount factor, which we are required to use to calculate PV-10 for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates and risks to which the Company’s business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. The Company is also required to base the PV-10 on average prices it receives on the first day of each of the preceding twelve months and costs as of the date of the reserve estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition to the price volatility factors discussed above, the following factors, among others, will affect actual future net cash flows, include: · the amount and timing of actual production; · curtailments or increases in consumption by oil and natural gas purchasers; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. As a result, the Company’s actual future net cash flows could be materially different from the estimates included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Full cost pool ceiling subject to reserve values. The Company uses the full cost method of accounting for costs related to its oil and natural gas properties. Capitalized costs included in the full cost pool are depreciated and depleted on an aggregate basis using the units-of-production method. Both the volume of proved reserves and any estimated future expenditures used for the depreciation and depletion calculation are based on estimates such as those described under “Oil and Gas Reserves”. The capitalized costs in the full cost pool are subject to a quarterly ceiling test that limits such pooled costs to the aggregate of the present value of future net revenues attributable to proved oil and natural gas reserves discounted at 10% plus the lower of cost or market value of unproved properties less any associated tax effects. If such capitalized costs exceed the ceiling, the Company will record a write-down to the extent of such excess as a non-cash charge to earnings. Any such write-down will reduce earnings in the period of occurrence and result in lower depreciation and depletion in future periods. A write-down may not be reversed in future periods, even though higher oil and natural gas prices may subsequently increase the ceiling. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s reserve quantities and values are concentrated in a relative few properties and fields. The Company’s reserves, and reserve values, are concentrated in 79 properties which represent 23% of the Company’s total properties but a disproportionate 80% of the discounted value (at 10%) of the Company’s reserves. Reserves related to new wells, including wells in the proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped categories, comprise 27% of significant properties and 30% of the discounted value of significant properties. Due to limited or no production history, reserve estimates for those categories are based primarily on volumetric estimates which are subject to significant change as more data becomes available. Competition for materials and services is intense and could adversely affect the Company. Major oil companies, independent producers, and institutional and individual investors are actively seeking oil and gas properties throughout the world, along with the equipment, labor and materials required to develop and operate properties. Shortages of equipment, labor or materials may result in increased costs or the inability to obtain such resources as needed. Many of the Company’s competitors have financial and technological resources which exceed those available to the Company. Oil and natural gas short sale and collar derivatives involve credit risk and place an upper limit on future revenues from price increases. To manage the Company’s exposure to price risks associated with the sale of oil and natural gas, the Company periodically enters into derivative hedging transactions for a portion of its estimated production. While such transactions limit the Company’s exposure to price decreases, they also place an upper limit on the Company’s potential gains if product prices were to rise over the price established by the derivatives. In addition, such transactions could expose the Company to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · the Company’s production is less than the estimated amount that is hedged; · the contractual counterparties fail to perform under the contracts; or · a sudden, unexpected event materially impacts product prices. The terms of the Company’s derivative agreements may also require that it furnish cash collateral, letters of credit or other forms of performance assurance in the event that mark-to-market calculations result in settlement obligations by the Company. In such event, the Company has the option to obtain funding through its financing agreement. The Company’s natural gas derivatives are generally based on NYMEX prices but the Company’s hedged natural gas production is primarily sold on a regional pipeline index price. The regional price is currently about 5% below NYMEX prices. Regional weather conditions and other economic factors can frequently result in substantially higher basis differentials. Oil derivatives generally are in the form of costless collars or forward short positions and are also generally based on NYMEX pricing. The Company has elected not to designate its commodity derivatives as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. Accordingly, such contracts are recorded at fair value on its Balance Sheets and changes in fair value are recorded in the Statements of Operations as they occur. The marketability of the Company’s natural gas production is dependent upon infrastructure, such as gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, that the Company does not own or control. The marketability of the Company’s natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas pipelines and processing facilities necessary to move the Company’s natural gas production to market. The Company does not own this infrastructure and is dependent on other companies to provide it. Oil and natural gas operations are inherently risky. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of risks, including the risks of operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs, and encountering formations with abnormal 10 Table of Contents pressures. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in losses. The Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. All of the Company’s oil and natural gas properties are located on-shore in the continental United States. The Company’s future drilling activities may not be successful, and its overall drilling success rate may change. Unsuccessful drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Also, the Company may not be able to obtain the right to drill in areas where it believes there is significant potential for the Company. The Company has recently expanded the volume and breadth of its exploration program with new drilling projects in North Dakota, Kansas and Nebraska, and the Texas Panhandle. Compared to the Company’s conventional drilling, the Texas Panhandle and North Dakota horizontal drilling projects are substantially more expensive to lease, drill and operate. The Company’s operations are subject to a variety of regulatory constraints. The production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of federal, state and local government regulations. These include regulations relating to: · the prevention of waste; · the discharge of materials into the environment; · the conservation of oil and natural gas; · pollution; · permits for drilling operations; · drilling bonds; · reports concerning operations; · the spacing of wells; and · the unitization and pooling of properties. The Company could incur liability for violations of these regulations. In addition, because current regulations covering the Company’s operations are subject to change at any time, the Company could incur significant costs for future compliance. Increases in taxes on energy sources may adversely affect the Company’s operations. Federal, state and local governments which have jurisdiction in areas where the Company operates impose taxes on the oil and natural gas products sold. Historically, there has been on-going consideration by federal, state and local officials concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. Such matters are beyond the Company’s ability to accurately predict or control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company does not have any unresolved comments from the Commission. 