Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties General Significant Properties, Estimated Proved Oil and Gas Reserves, and Future Net Revenues Production, Average Sales Prices and Average Production Costs Productive Wells and Developed Acreage Undeveloped Acreage Drilling Insurance Facilities and Employees Company Website Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships, Related Transactions and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Signatures PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General CREDO Petroleum Corporation (“CREDO”) was incorporated in Colorado in 1978. CREDO and its wholly owned subsidiaries, SECO Energy Corporation and United Oil Corporation (“SECO”, “United” and collectively “the company”), are Denver, Colorado based independent oil and gas companies which engage primarily in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in the Mid-Continent region of the United States. The company has operating activities in ten states and has twelve full-time employees. CREDO is an active operator in Kansas, Wyoming, Colorado, Louisiana and Texas. United is an active operator doing business primarily in Oklahoma, and SECO primarily owns royalty interests in the Rocky Mountain region. References to years as used in this report indicate fiscal years ended October 31. The company effected a 20% stock dividend in fiscal 2003, and a three-for-two stock split in each of fiscal 2005 and 2004. All share and per share amounts discussed and disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K reflect the effect of the dividend and stock splits. Business Activities During 2007, the company continued implementation of new drilling projects in central Kansas and South Texas, which projects are designed to sustain the company’s growth rate by expanding and diversifying its business, both technically and geographically. These projects will also diversify the capital exposure, risk and reserve potential of the company’s drilling activities. This includes approximately equal commitments to conventional drilling and to the company’s patented Calliope Gas Recovery System (“Calliope”) operations. The company’s goal is to create steady growth by adding production and long-lived reserves at reasonable costs and risks. The strategy to achieve this goal involves conventional drilling and increasing the number of Calliope installations. Third party industry participants are involved in most of the company’s operating activities. Historically, the company’s primary drilling focus has been in the Anadarko Basin of Oklahoma where the company owns interests in approximately 70,000 gross acres. The company will continue generating prospects and drilling on this acreage concentrating on medium depth properties generally ranging from 7,000 to 11,000 feet. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Oil and Gas Activities-Drilling Activities-Northern Anadarko Basin” for additional information. In recent years, the company has significantly expanded both the volume and breadth of its exploration program with new projects in South Texas and north-central Kansas. Compared to drilling in Oklahoma, the South Texas project involves higher costs and greater risks but significantly higher per well reserve potential. The South Texas project is 3-D seismic driven with well depths ranging from 10,000 to 17,000 feet. The north-central Kansas project is geared to oil exploration and has excellent potential to add significant reserves at moderate costs and risks. This project is also 3-D seismic driven with well depths of approximately 4,000 feet. Exploration teams for both projects specialize in their respective geographic areas and have been highly successful finding new reserves using 3-D seismic. The company believes that both projects have the potential to generate significant future production and reserve growth. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Oil and Gas Activities–Drilling Activities-Drilling Program Expansion and Diversification, South Texas, and North-Central Kansas” for additional information. The company has participated in developing, testing, refining, and patenting Calliope. Calliope efficiently lifts fluids from wellbores using pressure differentials, thus allowing gas previously trapped by fluid build-up in the wellbore to flow to the surface. Calliope is distinguished from all other fluid lift technologies because it does not rely on bottom-hole 5 pressure and has only one down-hole moving part. Calliope is primarily applicable to mature natural gas wells in low pressure, natural gas expansion reservoirs at depths below 8,000 feet. The company has a 10 year unrestricted exclusive license for the Calliope technology that expires in 2010, but that can be extended, at the company’s option, to cover the term of the latest patent. External sources of capital have not been required for the development, refinement or installation of Calliope. At October 31, 2007, Calliope has been installed on 25 wells ranging in depth from 6,500 feet to 18,400 feet. The company has proven Calliope’s economic viability and flexibility over a wide range of applications. The company currently has Calliope installed on wells located in Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana which include both sandstones and limestones in Chester, Cotton Valley, Edwards, Hart, Hunton, Morrow, Nodosaria, Red Fork and Springer reservoirs. Joint venture discussions were accelerated in fiscal year 2007 with two new agreements reached and others under negotiation at October 31, 2007. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Oil and Gas Activities-Calliope Gas Recovery Technology” for additional information. The company acts as “operator” of approximately 115 wells pursuant to standard industry operating agreements. The company owns working interests in 282 producing wells and overriding royalty interests in 1,163 wells. Markets and Customers Marketing of the company’s oil and gas production is influenced by many factors which are beyond the company’s control, and the exact effect of which cannot be accurately predicted. These factors include changes in supply and demand, market prices, regulation, and actions of major foreign producers. Oil price fluctuations can be extremely volatile as was demonstrated when, during 2003, the posted price for West Texas intermediate fell below $25.00 per barrel and then rose to over $90.00 per barrel during 2007. Natural gas price decontrol, the advent of an active spot market for natural gas, changes in supply and demand for natural gas, and weather patterns cause natural gas prices to be subject to significant fluctuations. The company presently sells virtually all of its natural gas under one to five year contracts with major pipeline companies. The sales price is typically based on monthly index prices for the applicable pipeline. Title to the natural gas normally passes to the pipeline at meters located near the wells. The index prices are reduced by certain pipeline charges. Most of the company’s natural gas production is located in northwestern Oklahoma. There has been significant consolidation among natural gas pipelines in this area, thereby reducing the number of available purchasers. In many instances, there may be only one viable pipeline option, which enables the pipeline to charge higher rates. A new pipeline is scheduled to be completed in early 2008 that will transport gas from the Rocky Mountain region to northeast Missouri. The pipeline will connect with other pipelines that transport natural gas to the eastern United States. Depending on supply and demand factors, gas delivered from the Rocky Mountain region may compete with the company’s Oklahoma gas resulting in the possibility of downward pressure on gas prices received by the company in Oklahoma and may cause ineffectiveness in the company’s cash flow hedges. Over the past few years there has been increasing concern that a supply/demand imbalance has developed in domestic natural gas based on increasing demand and lower deliverability. This, together with rising oil prices, political unrest and uncertainty in certain major producing regions, supply vulnerability to natural disasters, such as hurricanes, and active speculation in the natural gas futures market has caused natural gas prices to become increasingly volatile. The company expects natural gas prices to remain strong but cannot reasonably predict the extent or timing of natural gas price fluctuations. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the company periodically hedges the price of a portion of its estimated natural gas production in the form of forward short positions and collars on both the NYMEX futures market and regional markets. 6 Oil production is sold to crude oil purchasing companies at competitive spot field prices. Crude oil and condensate production are readily marketable, and the company is generally not dependent on a single purchaser. Crude oil prices are subject to world-wide supply and demand, and are primarily dependent upon available supplies which can vary significantly depending on production and pricing policies of OPEC and other major producing countries and on significant events in major producing regions. Political unrest and market uncertainty in the Middle East, Africa, South America and former Soviet Union, OPEC’s renewed cooperation in managing the price of its produced oil, and increased demand from countries with developing economies, such as China and India, have resulted in higher world-wide oil prices during the past several years. Information concerning the company’s major customers is included in Note (9) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Competition and Regulation The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. As a small independent, the company must compete against companies with substantially larger financial, human and other resources in all aspects of its business. Oil and gas drilling and production operations are regulated by various federal, state and local agencies. These agencies issue binding rules and regulations which carry penalties, often substantial, for failure to comply. The company anticipates its aggregate burden of federal, state and local regulation will continue to increase particularly in the area of rapidly changing environmental laws and regulations. The company also believes that its present operations substantially comply with applicable regulations. To date, such regulations have not had a material effect on the company’s operations, or the costs thereof. There are no known environmental or other regulatory matters related to the company’s operations which are reasonably expected to result in material liability to the company. The company believes that capital expenditures related to environmental control facilities or other regulatory matters will not be material in 2008. The company cannot predict what subsequent legislation or regulations may be enacted or what effect they might have on the company’s business. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In evaluating the company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect the company’s business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the company’s common stock. Volatility of oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect the company’s profitability and financial condition. The company’s performance in terms of revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of its oil and natural gas properties is significantly impacted by prevailing market prices for oil and natural gas. Any substantial or extended decline in the price of oil or natural gas could have a material adverse effect on the company. It could reduce the company’s operating cash flow as well as the value and, to a lesser degree, the quantity of its oil and natural gas reserves. See the table of oil and gas sales volumes and prices on page 13 for further information. 7 Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Relatively minor changes in supply or demand can have a significant effect on oil and natural gas prices. Some of the factors affecting oil and natural gas prices which are beyond the company’s control include: · worldwide and domestic supplies of oil and natural gas; · worldwide and domestic demand for oil and natural gas; · the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · political instability or armed conflict in oil or natural gas producing regions; · worldwide and domestic economic conditions; · the availability of transportation facilities; · weather patterns; and · actions of governmental authorities. Competition for opportunities to replace and increase production and reserves is intense and could adversely affect the company. Properties produce at a declining rate over time. In order to maintain current production rates the company must add new oil and natural gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. Competition within the oil and natural gas industry is intense and many of the company’s competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those available to the company. This could place the company at a disadvantage with respect to accessing opportunities to maintain, or increase, its oil and natural gas reserve base. In the event that the company does not have adequate cash flow to fund operations, it may be required to use debt or equity financing. The company makes, and will continue to make, significant expenditures to find, acquire, develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves. If oil and natural gas prices decrease, or if operating difficulties are encountered that result in cash flow from operations being less than expected, the company may have to reduce capital expenditures unless additional funds are raised through debt or equity financing. Debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations may not be available to the company in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms to meet these requirements. Future cash flows and the availability of financing will be subject to a number of variables, such as: · the company’s success in locating and producing new reserves; · the level of production from existing wells; and · prices of oil and natural gas; Issuing equity securities to satisfy the company’s financing requirements could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. Debt financing could make the company more vulnerable to competitive pressures and economic downturns. Reserve quantities and values are subject to many variables and estimates and actual results may vary. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of the company’s proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from those reserves. Any significant negative variance in these estimates could have a material adverse effect on the company’s future performance. Reserve estimates are based on various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. 8 Reserve estimates are dependent on many variables, and therefore, as more information becomes available, it is reasonable to expect that there will be changes to the estimates. Actual future production, oil and natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves will most likely vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and present value of reserves disclosed by the company. In addition, estimates of proved reserves will be adjusted in the future to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond the company’s control. As of October 31, 2007, approximately 24% of the company’s estimated proved reserves are classified as proved undeveloped. Estimation of proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves is generally based on volumetric calculations rather than the performance data used to estimate reserves for producing properties. Recovery of proved undeveloped reserves generally requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. Revenues from proved developed non-producing and proved undeveloped reserves will not be realized until some time in the future. The reserve estimate includes an estimate of the capital expenditures required to develop these reserves as well as the timing of such expenditures. Although the company has prepared estimates of its proved undeveloped reserves and the associated development costs in accordance with industry standards, they are based on estimates, and actual results may vary. You should not interpret the present value of estimated reserves, or PV-10, as the current market value of reserves attributable to the company’s properties. The 10% discount factor, which we are required to use to calculate PV-10 for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor given actual interest rates and risks to which the company’s business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject. The company has based the PV-10 on prices and costs as of the date of the reserve estimate, in accordance with applicable regulations. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. In addition to the price volatility factors discussed above, factors that will affect actual future net cash flows, include: · the amount and timing of actual production; · curtailments or increases in consumption by oil and natural gas purchasers; and · changes in governmental regulations or taxation. As a result, the company’s actual future net cash flows could be materially different from the estimates included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The company’s reserve quantities and values are concentrated in a relative few properties and fields. The company’s reserves, and reserve values, are concentrated in 61 properties which represent 26% of the company’s total properties but a disproportionate 77% of the discounted value (at 10%) of the company’s reserves. Individual wells on which Calliope is installed comprise 20% of these significant properties and 22% of the discounted reserve value of such properties. New wells comprise 16% of these significant properties and 15% of the discounted reserve value of such properties. Estimates of reserve quantities and values for these properties must be viewed as being subject to significant change as more data about the properties becomes available. Such properties include wells with limited production histories and properties with proved undeveloped or proved non-producing reserves. In addition, Calliope is generally installed on mature wells. As such, they contain older down-hole equipment that is more subject to failure than new equipment. The failure of such equipment, particularly casing, can result in complete loss of a well. 9 Competition for materials and services is intense and could adversely affect the company. Major oil companies, independent producers, and institutional and individual investors are actively seeking oil and gas properties throughout the world, along with the equipment, labor and materials required to develop and operate properties. Shortages of equipment, labor or materials may result in increased costs or the inability to obtain such resources as needed. Many of the company’s competitors have financial and technological resources which exceed those available to the company. The company is currently experiencing delays in securing drilling rigs and delivery of production equipment, primarily compressors and coil tubing. These delays are extending the time it takes the company to conduct its field operations. As a result, the company could be at risk for price increases related to these types of services and equipment. The company’s hedging arrangements involve credit risk and may limit future revenues from price increases. To manage the company’s exposure to price risks associated with the sale of natural gas, the company periodically enters into hedging transactions for a portion of its estimated natural gas production. These transactions may limit the company’s potential gains if natural gas prices were to rise substantially over the price established by the hedge. In addition, such transactions may expose the company to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: · the company’s production is less than the amount hedged; · the contractual counterparties fail to perform under the contracts; or · a sudden, unexpected event, materially impacts natural gas prices. The terms of the company’s hedging agreements may also require that it furnish cash collateral, letters of credit or other forms of performance assurance in the event that mark-to-market calculations result in settlement obligations by the company to the counterparties, which would encumber the company’s liquidity and capital resources. In addition, hedging transactions using derivative instruments involve basis risk. Basis risk in a hedging contract occurs when the index upon which the contract is based is more or less variable than the index upon which the hedged asset is based, thereby making the hedge less effective. Hedging gains and losses from effective cash flow hedges are recognized as adjustments to gas sales as the hedged product is produced. If price movements in cash flow hedges compared to the price received for the company’s production cause the hedges to be ineffective then the related hedging gains and losses during the period of ineffectiveness will be immediately reported as gas sales. Ineffective cash flow hedges have not been material for the three years ended October 31, 2007. A new pipeline is scheduled to be completed in early 2008 that will transport gas from the Rocky Mountain region to northeast Missouri. The pipeline will connect with other pipelines that transport natural gas to the eastern United States. Depending on supply and demand factors, gas delivered from the Rocky Mountain region may compete with the company’s Oklahoma gas resulting in the possibility of downward pressure on gas prices received by the company in Oklahoma and may cause ineffectiveness in the company’s cash flow hedges. The marketability of the company’s natural gas production is dependent upon infrastructure, such as gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities, that the company does not own or control. The marketability of the company’s natural gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities necessary to move the company’s natural gas production to market. The company does not own this infrastructure and is dependent on other companies to provide it. 10 Oil and natural gas operations are inherently risky. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of risks, including the risks of operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs, and encountering formations with abnormal pressures. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in losses. The company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Management believes that the level of insurance against these risks is reasonable and is consistent with general industry practices. The occurrence of a significant event that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial position and results of operations. All of the company’s oil and natural gas properties are located on-shore in the continental United States. The company’s future drilling activities may not be successful, and its overall drilling success rate may change. Unsuccessful drilling activities could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Also, the company may not be able to obtain the right to drill in areas where it believes there is significant potential for the company. The company has recently expanded the volume and breadth of its exploration program with new drilling projects in South Texas. These projects diversify the company’s exploration geographically, scientifically, and in terms of capital, risk and reserve potential. Compared to the company’s Oklahoma drilling, the South Texas project involves higher costs and greater risks but offers significantly higher per well production and reserve potential. The company’s operations are subject to a variety of regulatory constraints. The production and sale of oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of federal, state and local government regulations. These include: · the prevention of waste; · the discharge of materials into the environment; · the conservation of oil and natural gas; · pollution; · permits for drilling operations; · drilling bonds; · reports concerning operations; · the spacing of wells; and · the unitization and pooling of properties. Because current regulations covering the company’s operations are subject to change at any time, and despite its belief that it is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and other government laws and regulations, the company could incur significant costs for future compliance. Increases in taxes on energy sources may adversely affect the company’s operations. Federal, state and local governments which have jurisdiction in areas where the company operates impose taxes on the oil and natural gas products sold. Historically, there has been on-going consideration by federal, state and local officials concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. Such matters are beyond the company’s ability to accurately predict or control. The company is highly dependent on the services of one of its officers. The company is highly dependent on the services of James T. Huffman, its President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Huffman could have a material adverse effect on the company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The company does not have any unresolved comments from the Commission. 11 