ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, or those of our customers. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the shipping industry in general. Over the last couple of years, worldwide economic conditions have experienced a significant downturn as a result of, among other things, the failure of several financial institutions, slower economic activity, fluctuations in commodity prices, decreased consumer confidence and other adverse business conditions and related concerns. While we cannot predict the duration of this or any other economic downturn, it could ultimately have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial condition, including our ability to borrow money from current credit sources or secure additional financing to fund our ongoing operations. In addition, continued market weakness could jeopardize the performance of certain counterparty obligations, including those of our customers, financial institutions and insurers. For example, these conditions may make it difficult or impossible for our customers to operate profitably, to secure financing for their operations or to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, any of which may result in them defaulting on their obligations to us or reducing the use of our vessels. Although we continue to monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties, in the event any such party fails to discharge its obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses. Our business and operations are highly regulated, which can adversely affect our operations. Our business and the shipping industry in general are subject to extensive, and increasingly stringent laws and regulations of the flag nations of our vessels, including worker’s health, safety, insurance, and the staffing, construction, operation and transfer of our flagged vessels. Compliance with or the enforcement of these laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, in the event of war or national emergency, our U.S. flag vessels are subject to requisition by the United States government. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or mo re of our vessels, the amount and timing of such payment in this event is uncertain and there is no guarantee that such amounts will be paid, or if paid, will fully satisfy lost profits associated with the requisition. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain and maintain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. In certain instances, the failure to obtain or maintain such permits, licenses or certificates could have an adverse effect on our business. We may also be required to periodically modify operating procedures or alter or introduce new equipment for our existing vessels to appropriately respond to changes in governmental regulation. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations related to environmental protection. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in penalties, sanctions or the ultimate suspension or termination of our operations. Additionally, some environmental laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and the release of hazardous materials. As a result, we could become subject to liability irrespective of fault or negligence. These laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by our charterers or other parties. In complying with these laws, we have incurred expenses and may incur future expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our flexibility or further increase our operating costs. If Congress does not make sufficient appropriations under the Maritime Security Act of 1996, we may not continue to receive certain payments. If Congress does not make sufficient appropriations under the Maritime Security Act of 1996 in any fiscal year, we may not continue to receive annual payments with respect to certain of our vessels. Under the MSP program discussed in the Regulation section in Item 1 above, each participating vessel received an annual payment of $2.6 million in 2008 and $2.9 million in 2009. They are eligible to receive $2.9 million in years 2010 and 2011, and $3.1 million in years 2012 to 2015. As of December 31, 2009, eight of our vessels operated under MSP contracts. 0; Since payments under this program are subject to annual appropriations by Congress and are not guaranteed, we can provide no assurance as to our continued receipt, in full or in part, of the annual payments. An increase in the supply of vessels without a corresponding increase in demand for vessels could cause our charter and cargo rates to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Historically, the shipping industry has been cyclical. The nature, timing and degree of changes to industry conditions are generally unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of our assets, in part because of changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The worldwide supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new, refurbished or converted vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. If the available supply of vessels exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity and competition in the markets where we op erate may increase. In the absence of a corresponding increase in the demand for these vessels, the charter hire we earn and cargo rates for our vessels could fluctuate significantly and result in, among other things, lower operating revenues and reduced earnings. A decline in our earned charter hire and cargo rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Our Rail-Ferry Service has a history of losses, and we can give no assurances as to its future profitability. The service began operating in February of 2001 and has been unprofitable every year except 2008, when the two vessels used to provide this service averaged approximately 75% capacity utilization. Beginning in 2009, the service began to feel the impact from the overall economic downturn, especially on its northbound service to the US, and both volumes and net margins decreased. During December 2009, we were notified that one of the segment’s largest customers would no longer need our services, stating sourcing decisions as the reason for the change. The revenues from this customer during 2009 was approximately $6.5 million, or 23% of the total segments revenues. Due to the uncertainty of this segment and the history of losses, the Company has routinely performed an impairment test to determine if the undiscounted cash flows were sufficient enough to recover the asset value of the segment. As of December 31, 2009, we performed the latest impairment test which factored in the lower recent and projected results, and concluded that there was no asset impairment. We will continue to monitor the results and cash flow estimates. If actual cash flows fall below current estimates, we may have to take an impairment charge in the near future. The Company estimates that a decrease of 10-15% in expected results will result in an impairment charge in the $20 million to $30 million range. The total investment at risk as of December 31, 2009 was $65.2 million. We are subject to the risk of continuing high prices, and increasing prices, of the fuel we consume in our Rail-Ferry operations. We are exposed to commodity price risks with respect to fuel consumption in our Rail-Ferry operations, and we can give no assurance that we will be able to offset higher fuel costs due to the competitive nature of these operations. Although we currently have fuel surcharges in place, a material increase in current fuel prices that we cannot recover through these fuel cost surcharges could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For an analysis of the effect on our operating costs and e arnings per share of an increase in fuel prices, see Item 7a, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, on page 34. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The shipping industry is intensely competitive and can be influenced by economic and political events that are outside the control of shipping companies. We may also compete with companies that have greater resources than we have, or who may be better positioned to adapt to changes in market or economic conditions. Additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our expiring contracts on economically attractive terms, maintain attractive freight rates, pass cost increases through to our customers or otherwise successfully compete against our competitors. Any failure to remain competitive in the shipping industry could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditio n. We are subject to the control of our principal stockholders. As of February 26, 2010, three of our directors, Erik F. Johnsen, Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen, and their respective family members and affiliated entities, beneficially owned an aggregate of 23.96% of our common stock. Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen are also executive officers of the Company, and their respective fathers are former executive officers who continue to provide consulting services to us. As a result, the Johnsen family may have the ability to exert significant influence over our affairs and management, including the election of directors and other corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our assets or result from our operations. The operation of our vessels are subject to inherent risks, such as: (i) catastrophic marine disaster; (ii) adverse weather conditions; (iii) mechanical failure; (iv) collisions; (v) hazardous substance spills; (vi) war, terrorism and piracy; and (vii) navigation and other human errors. The occurrence of any of these events may result in, among other things, damage to or loss of our vessels and our vessels' cargo or other property, delays in delivery of cargo, damage to other vessels and the environment, loss of revenues, termination of vessel charters or other contracts, fines or other restrictions on cond ucting business, damage to our reputation and customer relationships, and injury to personnel. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in our operating costs or liability to third parties. In addition, such occurrences may result in our company being held strictly liable for pollution damages under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act or one of the international conventions to which our vessels operating in foreign waters may be subject. Although we maintain insurance coverage against most of these risks at levels our management considers to be customary in the industry, risks may arise for which we are not adequately insured. Additionally, any particular claim may not be covered by our policies, or may be subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could have an adverse effect on our operating and financial condition. We also make no assurances that we will be able to renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Additionally, certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual P&I associations. As a mutual club, a substantial portion of its continued viability to effectively manage liability risks is reliant upon the premiums paid by its members. As a member of such associations, we may incur the obligation to satisfy payments in addition to previously established or budgeted premiums to the extent member claims would surpass the reserves of the association. We may be subject to calls or premiums in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members. Our payment of these calls could result in significant additional expenses. We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Our international shipping operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States. These risks include, among others: (i) economic, political and social instability; (ii) potential vessel seizure, terrorist attacks, piracy, kidnapping or the expropriation of assets and other governmental actions, which are not covered by our insurance; (iii) currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; (iv) potential submission to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel; and (v) import and export quotas, the imposition of increased environmental and safety regulations and other forms of public and governmental regulation. Many of these risks are beyond our control, and we cannot predict the nature or the likelihood of the occurrence or corresponding affect of any such events, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels could be seized by maritime claimants, which could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts or claims for damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called “sister ship” arrests, that allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any “associated” vessel. In nations with these laws, an “association” may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us or any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels we own. While we have insurance coverage for these type of claims, we cannot guarantee it w ill cover all of our potential exposure. A substantial number of our shipboard employees are unionized. In the event of a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operations may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 75% of our 381 shipboard personnel were unionized employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Given the prevalence of maritime trade unions and their corresponding influence over its members, the shipping industry is vulnerable to work stoppages and other potentially hostile actions by employees. We may also have difficulty successfully negotiating renewals to our collective bargaining agreements with these unions or face resistance to any future efforts to place restrains on wages, reduce labor costs or moderate work practices. Any of these events may re sult in strikes, work disruptions and have other potentially adverse consequences on the shipping industry and our business in general. While we have experienced no strikes, work stoppages or other significant labor problems during the last ten years, we cannot assure that such events will not occur in the future or be material in nature. In the event we experience one or more strikes, work stoppages or other labor problems, our business and, in turn, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some of our employees are covered by laws limiting our protection from exposure to certain claims. Some of our employees are covered by several maritime laws, statutes and regulations which circumvent, and nullify certain liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and the Seamen’s Wage Act. We are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these particular employees, and as a result our exposure for claims asserted by these employees may be greater. We may not be able to renew our time charters and contracts when they expire. During fiscal 2009, we received approximately 49% of our revenue from time charters (excluding supplemental cargoes), bareboat charters or contracts of affreightment. However, there can be no assurance that any of our existing time or bareboat charters or contracts of affreightment, which are generally for periods of one year or more, will be renewed or, if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates. If upon expiration of our existing charters and contracts, we are unable to obtain new charters or contracts at rates comparable to those received under the expired charters or contracts, our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Older vessels have higher operating costs and are potentially less desirable to charterers. The average age of the vessels in our fleet that we own or lease is approximately 14 years, including the average age of our owned and leased Pure Car/Truck Carrier Fleet, which is approximately 11 years. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase and become more difficult to estimate with accuracy as the age of the vessel increases. Moreover, customers generally prefer modern vessels over older vessels, which places the older vessels at a competitive disadvantage, especially in weak markets. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, compliance with classification society standards and customer requirements or competition may require us to make additional expenditures for alternations or the addition of new equipment. In order to make such alterations or add such equipment, we may be required to take our vessels out of service, thereby reducing our revenues. Expenditures such as these may also require us to incur additional debt or raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that market or general economic conditions will enable us to replace our exiting vessels with new vessels, justify the expenditures necessary to maintain our older vessels in good operating condition or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their estimated useful lives. We face periodic drydocking costs for our vessels, which can be substantial. Vessels must be drydocked periodically for regulatory compliance and for maintenance and repair. Our drydocking requirements are subject to associated risks, including delay and cost overruns, lack of necessary equipment, unforeseen engineering problems, employee strikes or other work stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. A significant delay in drydockings could have an adverse effect on our contract commitments. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. Our insurance does not cover these costs. As a holding company with no operations of our own, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company without any material assets or operations, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to us. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our obligations will depend on their future fina ncial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. Additionally, our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing purposes, to make any funds available to us to pay dividends or to repay our debt or other obligations. Our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will also be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. The footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein describe these matters in additional detail. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments impose restrictions on our business. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments contain a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. The restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to: (i) consolidate or merge; (ii) incur new debt; (iii) engage in transactions with affiliates; (iv) create or permit to exist liens on our assets: and (v) in the case of a breach in certain financial covenants, pay cash dividends. These agreements also require us to meet a number of financial ratios. Our ability to satisfy these and other covenants depends on our results of operations and ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditi ons. Several of these factors are beyond our control or may be significantly restricted, and, as a result, we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that otherwise might be considered beneficial to us and our common stockholders. In addition, as our debt obligations are represented by separate agreements with different lenders, in some cases the breach of any of these covenants or other default under one agreement may create an event of default under other agreements, resulting in the acceleration of principal, interest and potential penalties under such other agreements (even though we may otherwise be in compliance with all of our payments and other obligations under those agreements). Thus, an event of default under a single agreement, including one that is technical in nature or otherwise not material, could result in the acceleration of significant indebtedness under multiple lending agreements. If amounts outstanding under such agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to generate sufficient cash flo w to repay the accelerated indebtedness, and such lenders could potentially proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We are highly leveraged when considering commitments under operating leases. Our leverage could have material adverse consequences for us, including: · hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions; · limiting our ability to access the capital markets to refinance maturing debt or to fund acquisitions of vessels or businesses; · limiting the amount of free cash flow available for future operations, dividends, stock repurchases or other uses; · making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that have less indebtedness. In connection with executing our business strategies, from time to time we evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional vessels or businesses, and we may elect to finance such acquisitions by incurring additional indebtedness. Moreover, if we were to suffer uninsured material losses or liabilities, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital to fund liabilities that we could not pay with our free cash flow. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit may be adverse ly affected and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our current indebtedness could be adversely affected. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. The ability of our counterparties to perform their obligations under these contracts will depend upon a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions and the overall financial condition of these counterparties, especially in light of the recent global financial crisis. Should our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under their agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . Repeal, amendment, suspension or failure to enforce the Jones Act could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. A portion of our shipping operations are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade. Under the Jones Act, this trade is restricted to vessels built in the United States, owned and manned by U.S. citizens and registered under U.S. law. If the Jones Act were repealed, substantially amended or waived, it could potentially result in additional competition from vessels built in generally lower-cost foreign shipyards and owned and manned by foreign nationals, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance as to the occurrence or timing of any future amendment, s uspension, repeal or waivers of or to the Jones Act. Loss of our senior management or other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of our senior management team and other key personnel, especially those of our Chairman, President, and Chief Financial Officer, who have substantial experience in the shipping industry and over 103 years of collective experience with us. We believe that the experience of our senior management team is a vital component to maintain long-term relationships with our customers. Given their experience and knowledge of our business and customer relationships, the loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our future operating r esults, and we may have to incur significant costs to find sufficient replacements for them, if available. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters. Given the nature and scope of our operations, we are constantly vulnerable to disruption as a result of adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, earthquakes and other natural disasters. These type of events may, among other things (i) hinder our ability to effectively and timely execute on scheduled service to our customers whether due to damage to our properties, to our customers’ operations, or to dock or other transportation facilites; (ii) interfere with our terminal operations; (iii) damage our vessels and equipment; or (iv) result in injury or, in certain cases death, to our employees. Any of these factors, especially to the extent not fully covered by insurance, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We cannot assure you that we will have the necessary funds to pay dividends on our common stock or we may elect not to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. In the fourth quarter 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the reinstitution of a quarterly cash dividend program, reflecting an intention to distribute to our stockholders a portion of our free cash flow. While we currently plan to continue our dividend program, our stockholders may not receive additional dividends in the future for reasons that may include, without limitation, any of the following factors: · we may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital or vessel spending plans, cash flow or financial position; · debt covenants could restrict our ability to pay dividends, or the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us; and · the actual amount of dividends distributed and the decision to make any distribution remains at all times entirely at the discretion of our Board of Directors, who are free to change or suspend our dividend program at any time. Changes in effective tax rates and new tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially affect our future results and financial position. Our future reported financial results from operations performed abroad may be affected by the proposed federal tax law changes announced May 4, 2009 by the current administration. A significant amount of our operating earnings are derived outside of the United States (“U.S.”) and a significant amount of our assets currently reside outside of the U.S. We have represented those foreign earnings to be indefinitely invested outside of the U.S. Therefore, we have not provided for U.S. federal or state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on them. The current administration recently announced several initiatives to reform the tax rules that govern the treatment of foreign earnings. These proposals include provisions that would have the following effects on us: reducing or eliminating the deferral of U.S. income tax on our u nrepatriated foreign earnings which could require those earnings to be taxed in the U.S. at the U.S. federal income tax rate; limiting certain related party interest; limiting the use of the “check the box” election to defer U.S. tax on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries; eliminating or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits; and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated back to the U.S. Accordingly, our future reported financial results may be adversely impacted to the extent any of these initiatives require the recognition of a tax liability not currently required. We face other risks. The list of risks above is not exhaustive, and you should be aware that we face various other risks. For a description of additional risks, please see Item 7, “Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” below, and the other items of this annual report. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 