Risk Factors We are highly leveraged. We are highly leveraged and devote a substantial portion of our operating income to debt service. To date, we have been able to generate sufficient cash from operations, including planned sales of assets and sale leaseback transactions, to meet annual interest and principal payments on our indebtedness. However, following the completion in January of 2005 of our convertible exchangeable preferred stock offering, our combined debt service and preferred stock dividend requirements will be greater than they have been in the past, and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service and preferred stock dividend obli gations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient operating cash flows to service our debt and meet our preferred stock dividend requirements. Subject to compliance with various financial and other covenants imposed by the agreements governing our existing indebtedness and that of our subsidiaries, we may incur additional indebtedness from time to time, thus increasing our leverage. As of December 31, 2005, we met all of the financial covenants under our various debt agreements, the most restrictive of which include the working capital, leverage ratio, minimum net worth and interest coverage ratios, and believe we will continue to meet these requirements throughout 2006, although we can give no assurance to that effect. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important adverse consequences. Among other things, high leverage may: (i) impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, vessel and other acquisitions, and general corporate purposes; (ii) require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest; (iii) limit the funds available to meet our preferred stock dividend requirements; (iv) place us at a competitive disadvantage to less highly-leveraged competitors; and (v) make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures. A default under one of our debt agreements may result in a default under one or more of our other debt agreements. Our debt obligations are represented by separate agreements with different lenders. A default under any agreement can result in the acceleration of principal and interest, and in some cases penalties, under that agreement. In some cases, a default under one agreement may create an event of default under other agreements, resulting in the acceleration of principal, interest and penalties under such other agreements even though we are otherwise in compliance with all payment and other obligations under those agreements. Thus, an event of default under a single agreement, including one that is technical in nature or otherwise not material, may create an event of default under multiple lending agreements, which could result in the acceleration of significant indebtedness under multiple a greements that we may not be able to pay or refinance at that time. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments impose restrictions on our business. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments contain a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. The restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to: (i) redeem and pay dividends on our capital stock; (ii) make investments; (iii) engage in transactions with affiliates; and (iv) create or permit to exist liens on our assets. These agreements also require us to meet a number of financial ratios. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that otherwise might be considered beneficial to the Company. In addition, the breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under several other of these agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any such agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. If amounts outstanding under such agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the accelerated indebtedness. Our business and operations are highly-regulated. Our business is materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations, and laws and regulations of the flag nations of our vessels, including laws relating to the discharge of materials into the environment. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we are unable to predict the ultimate costs of compliance. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain and maintain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. In certain instances, the failure to obtain or maintain such permits, licenses or certificates could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of war or national emergency, our U.S. flag vessels are subject to requisition by the United St ates without any guarantee of compensation for lost profits, although the United States government has traditionally paid fair compensation in such circumstances. 10 If sufficient appropriations under the Maritime Security Act of 1996 are not made in any fiscal year, we may not continue to receive annual payments with respect to certain of our vessels. The Maritime Security Act of 1996, which provides for a program for certain U.S. flag vessels, was signed into law in October of 1996. Under this program, each participating vessel is eligible to receive an annual payment of $2.1 million through the government’s fiscal year 2005. In 2003, Congress authorized an extension of the program through 2015, increased the number of ships eligible industry-wide to participate in the program from 47 to 60, and increased payments to companies in the program, all effective on October 1, 2005. Annual payments for each vessel in the MSP are $2.6 million in years 2006 to 2008, $2.9 million in years 2009 to 2011, and $3.1 million in years 2012 to 2015. As of December 31, 2005, eight of our vessels operated under MSP contracts. Payments under this program are subject to annual appropriation by Congress and are not guaranteed. Congress may not make sufficient appropriations under the program in one or more fiscal years and, as a result, we can provide no assurance as to our continued receipt, in full or in part, of the annual payments. As of December 31, 2005, the U.S. Congress had not yet enacted the legislation to appropriate funding for this program for fiscal year 2006 at $2.6 million per year per vessel. Therefore, Congress passed a continuing resolution allowing this program to continue at fiscal year 2005 funding levels for all vessels qualifying for the program. Since the number of vessels in this program increased October 1, 2005, which was the beginning of the new fiscal year, and the total funds appropriated for fiscal year 2006 are higher than for fiscal year 2005, the payments per vessel were lower for the period until the legislation was passed in January of 2006 and the funds were appropriated for fiscal year 2006. In January of 2006, payments were received that resulted in fully compensating us for all periods since October 1, 2005, based in $2.6 million per vessel per year. An increase in the supply of vessels without a corresponding increase in demand for vessels could cause our charter and cargo rates to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Historically, the shipping industry has been cyclical. The profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated in part because of changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. If the number of new vessels delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessels increases and the demand for vessels does not, the charter and cargo rates for our vessels could decline significantly. A decline in our charter and cargo rates could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earn ings. The revenues of our liner services segment are subject to seasonal and cyclical variations, which may cause material fluctuations in our reported earnings. The demand for certain cargoes carried in our Liner Services, such as agricultural products, steel and forest products, and the corresponding demand for Liner Services to ship these cargoes, has historically exhibited seasonal and cyclical variations. As a result, the revenues of our Liner Services segment are subject to seasonal and cyclical variations, which may cause material fluctuations in our revenues and earnings on a quarterly or annual basis, or both. Our Rail-Ferry Service has been unprofitable to date, and we can give no assurance as to its future profitability. Our Rail-Ferry Service began operating in February of 2001. The introduction of this service in a competitive market contributed $7.5 million to our net loss in fiscal year 2001, and the service had losses of $3.7 million, $2.9 million and $4.3 million in fiscal years 2002, 2003 and 2004, respectively. Additionally, the service had losses of $6.7 million in fiscal year 2005, although $2.5 million was directly related to losses from hurricane Katrina. We are in the process of adding a second deck to each vessel in order to essentially double their capacity, and have made improvements to the terminal in Louisiana and will be making improvements to the terminal in Mexico. Additionally, we have invested in a transloading and storage facility in New Orleans. We expect the installation of the decks on both ships and the terminal in Mexico to be completed by the end of the third quarter of 2006. We believe that this expansion will significantly reduce our cost per unit of cargo carried and significantly increase our cash flow, but only if we are able to book substantially all of the additional capacity, and we can give no assurance at this time that we will be successful in doing so. Our Rail-Ferry Service requires access to the Mississippi River Gulf Outlet (“MR-GO”), the continuing viability of which is under question as a result of flooding in eastern New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina. Our Rail-Ferry Service operates from a terminal in New Orleans, Louisiana. Specifically, the terminal is located on the MR-GO which is a Federal waterway connecting to the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. As a result of the devastating flooding caused by Hurricane Katrina, the Federal funding that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers requires to dredge the MR-GO has been suspended. While the current depth of the MR-GO is adequate to allow us to continue to operate, any further silting would prevent our long-term utilization of the MR-GO. Therefore, as a result, we must review all options available to us regarding the continued operation of our Rail-Ferry Service including relocating the U.S. operations out of the New Orleans area. The total cost to build our terminal on the MR-GO was approximately $31 million. The City of New Orleans and the State of Louisiana have contributed approximately $17 million towards that cost, leaving our investment at risk at approximately $14 million. We have begun dialogue with the State of Louisiana to discuss our options regarding our 11 terminal on the MR-GO. While we can give no assurance of the ultimate outcome of those discussions, we are satisfied that we will agree upon a fair solution. In any event, the maximum impairment loss associated with our investment at the facility resulting from a relocation from the MR-GO, if we received no compensation, would be approximately $14 million. Our investment of approximately $14 million was funded with the proceeds from a financing agreement. Relocation of the terminal from our current location could potentially place us in default on this debt requiring us to repay the unamortized balance. Additionally, we could potentially be required to compensate the lender for their cost if they lost the ability to utilize certain federal tax credits available to them in relation to our financing agreement. We are subject to the risk of continuing high prices, and increasing prices, of the fuel we consume in our Liner and Rail-Ferry operations. We are exposed to commodity price risks with respect to fuel consumption in our Liner and Rail-Ferry operations, and we can give no assurance that we will be able to offset higher fuel costs due to the competitive nature of these operations. Moreover, while we entered into hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our 2003 fuel requirements and a small portion of our 2004 fuel requirements for our Liner and Rail-Ferry segments to reduce our exposure to increases in fuel prices, we did not enter into any hedging arrangements in 2005 and we currently have no hedging arrangements in place with respect to our estimated 2006 fuel requirements. We currently have fuel surcharges in place, however, a material increase in current f uel prices that we cannot recover through these fuel cost surcharges could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For an analysis of the effect of our operating costs and earnings per share of an increase in fuel prices, see Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk on pages 26 and 27. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The shipping industry is intensely competitive and can be influenced by economic and political events that are outside the control of shipping companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew expiring charters on economically attractive terms, maintain attractive freight rates, pass cost increases through to our customers or otherwise successfully compete against our competitors. We are subject to the control of our principal stockholders. Four of our directors, Niels W. Johnsen, Erik F. Johnsen, Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen, and their family members and affiliated entities, beneficially owned an aggregate of 36.6% (which includes currently exercisable options to acquire 400,000 shares) of the common stock of the Company as of December 31, 2005. As a result, the Johnsen family has the power to determine many of our policies, the election of our directors and officers, and the outcome of various corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Operating hazards may increase our operating costs; our insurance coverage is limited. Our vessels are subject to operating risks such as: (i) catastrophic marine disaster; (ii) adverse weather conditions; (iii) mechanical failure; (iv) collisions; (v) hazardous substance spills; (vi) war, terrorism and piracy; and (vii) navigation and other human errors. The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to or loss of our vessels and our vessels' cargo or other property, and in injury to personnel. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in our operating costs or liability to third parties. In addition, such occurrences may result in our company being held strictly liable for pollution damages under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act or one of the international conventions to which our vessels operatin g in foreign waters may be subject. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of these risks, which our management considers to be customary in the industry. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. In addition, the terrorist attacks that occurred in the U.S. on September 11, 2001, as well as the potential for future attacks, compliance with recently enacted maritime security laws and other factors, have caused significant increases in the cost of our war risk insurance coverage, which covers damages to our vessels and liability to third parties arising from acts of terrorism. We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Our international shipping operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States. These risks include, among others: (i) economic, political and social instability; (ii) potential vessel seizure, expropriation of assets and other governmental actions, which are not covered by our insurance; (iii) currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; (iv) potential submission to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel; and (v) import and export quotas, the imposition of increased environmental and safety regulations and other forms of public and governmental regulation. Many of these risks are beyond our control, and we cannot predict the nature or the likelihood of any such events. However, if such an event should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels could be seized by maritime claimants, which could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts or claims for damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called “sister ship” arrests, that allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or 12 lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any “associated” vessel. In nations with these laws, an “association” may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us, any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels we own. While we have insurance coverage for these type of claims, we cannot guarantee it will cover all of our exposure. A substantial number of our employees are unionized; in the event of a strike or other work stoppage our business and operations may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2005, all of our shipboard personnel and certain of our shoreside personnel were covered by collective bargaining agreements. While we have experienced no strikes, work stoppages or other significant labor problems during the last ten years, we cannot assure you that such events will not occur in the future. In the event we experience one or more strikes, work stoppages or other labor problems, our business and operations and, in turn, our results of operations, may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to renew our time charters and contracts when they expire. There can be no assurance that any of our existing time or bareboat charters or contracts of affreightment will be renewed or, if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates. If upon expiration of our existing charters and contracts, we are unable to obtain new charters or contracts at rates comparable to those received under the expired charters or contracts, our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Older vessels have higher operating costs and are less desirable to charterers. The average age of the vessels in our fleet, excluding the vessels in which we have a partial ownership, is approximately 16 years. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with classification society standards may require us to make expenditures for new equipment. In order to add such equipment, we may be required to take our vessels out of service, thereby reducing our revenues. Moreover, customers generally prefer modern vessels over older vessels, which places the older vessels at a competitive disadvantage, especially in weak markets. &nbs p;There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify the expenditures necessary to maintain our older vessels in good operating condition or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their estimated useful lives. We face periodic drydocking costs for our vessels, which can be substantial. Vessels must be drydocked periodically. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial and our insurance does not cover these costs. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we employed approximately 476 shipboard personnel and 142 shoreside personnel. We consider relations with our employees to be excellent. All of our shipboard personnel and certain of our shoreside personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Some of these agreements relate to particular vessels and have terms corresponding with the terms of their respective vessel’s charter, including agreements relating to two of our vessels that have been renewed in early 2006. Moreover, the collective bargaining agreements covering eight of our vessels operating under MSP contracts have been renewed in early 2006. In addition, Central Gulf, Waterman, and other U.S. shipping companies are subject to collective bargaining agreements for shipboard personnel in which the shipping companies servicing U.S. Gulf and East Coast ports also must make contributions to pension plans for dockside workers. We have experienced no strikes or other significant labor problems during the last ten years. Available Information Our internet address is www.intship.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report. 