ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are a list of factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. These risk factors discuss all known material risks. Risks Related To Our Business Our industry is cyclical and has experienced a recent decline in the demand for certain of the services we offer, which could negatively impact our revenues and earnings. Historically, the shipping industry has been cyclical. The nature, timing and degree of changes to industry conditions are generally unpredictable and are impacted by factors beyond our control. Various factors influence the demand for our transportation services, including worldwide demand for the products we carry and changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The worldwide supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new, refurbished or converted vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. If the available supply of vessels exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity and competition in the markets where we operate may increase. In the absence of a corresponding increase in the demand for these vessels, the charter hire and cargo rates for our vessels could fluctuate significantly and result in, among other things, lower operating revenues, earnings and asset values. Beginning in 2008, our revenues and gross voyage profits benefited from significant increases in the volume of supplemental cargoes carried by our vessels. These supplemental cargoes peaked during the fourth quarter of 2009, and decreased substantially thereafter until recently stabilizing at levels comparable to pre-2008. If our supplemental cargo volumes continue to decrease, the revenues and gross voyage profits from our incumbent operations will be negatively impacted. 6 Table of Contents We may not be able to renew our time charters and contracts when they expire at favorable rates or at all. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we received approximately 60% of our revenue from time charters and fixed contracts. However, there can be no assurance that any of these charters or contracts, which are generally for periods of one year or more, will be renewed. Moreover, you should be aware that shipping rates are based on several factors that are unpredictable and beyond our control. Accordingly, even if we are able to renew our charters or other contracts when they lapse, we may not be able to earn rates comparable to those received under the expired charters or contracts, which would adversely affect our revenues and earnings. In the event we cannot deploy a vessel at economically viable rates, we may opt to lay up the vessel until such time that spot or charter rates become attractive again. During the period of lay-up, the vessel will continue to incur expenditures such as insurance and maintenance costs. From time to time, we enter into charter agreements with various agencies or departments of the U.S. government that allow the customer to terminate the agreement at any time without cause, subject to the payment of certain early termination fees. If our exposure to the spot market increases, our revenues could suffer and our expenses could increase. Currently we deploy over 40% of our vessels in the spot market, where rates are typically volatile and subject to short-term market fluctuations. The spot market for marine transportation services is highly competitive, and charter rates for most dry cargo vessels in the spot market are currently low in relation to historical rates over the past couple of decades. If we deploy a greater percentage of our vessels in the spot market, we may experience a lower overall utilization of our fleet through waiting time or ballast voyages, leading to a decline in our operating revenue and gross profit. Moreover, to the extent our vessels are employed in the spot market voyage contracts, both our revenue from vessels and our operating costs will likely be more significantly impacted by increases in fuel costs. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The shipping industry is intensely competitive and can be influenced by economic and political events that are largely outside the control of shipping companies. Many of our current and potential competitors: · may have greater resources or stronger brands than we have; · own larger and more diverse fleets of vessels; · conduct operations or raise capital at lower costs than us; or · may be better positioned to adapt to changes in market or economic conditions. Changes in the political or regulatory environment can also create competition that is not necessarily based on normal considerations of profit and loss. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to deploy our vessels on economically attractive terms, maintain attractive freight rates, pass cost increases through to our customers or otherwise successfully compete against our competitors. Any failure to remain competitive in the shipping industry could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition could adversely impact us in several ways, including (i) the loss of customers and market share, (ii) the possibility of customers reducing their usage of our vessels or services, (iii) our need to expend substantial time or money on vessel acquisitions or capital improvement projects, (iv) our need to lower prices or increase marketing expenses to remain competitive and (v) our inability to diversify by successfully offering new marine transportation services. A significant amount of our and UOS’ recent revenues were derived from two customers, and our or their revenues could decrease significantly if these customers were lost. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012, we derived 34% and 41% of our revenues, respectively, from contracts with various agencies or departments of the U.S. government. Likewise, we derived 15% and 15.3% of our revenues for the same periods, respectively, from contracts with one company which time charters our PCTC’s. Similarly, in 2011 and for the eleven months prior to our acquisition of UOS on November 30, 2012, UOS derived over half of its revenues for each respective period from contracts with Tampa Electric and Mosaic (which percentage has increased since October 2012 due to the settlement of litigation that for the prior two years had halted the shipment of a portion of the cargoes carried for on of these key customers.). Our inability or failure to continue to employ our newly-acquired and incumbent vessels at rates comparable to those historically earned from these customers, the loss of any of these customers or the failure to charter these vessels otherwise in a reasonable period of time or at all could adversely affect our operations and performance. Although our customers generally include leading international companies and governmental agencies such as the customers referenced above, we are unable to assure you that these customers will continue to contract with us on similar terms, or will not decide to contract with our competitors, or will decide to perform their shipping functions themselves. Economic conditions, a prolonged economic downturn, economic uncertainty, an increase in trade protectionism or a change in trade patterns in the markets where we operate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The demand for our transportation services has been and will continue to be affected by domestic and global economic conditions. Worldwide economic growth has been sluggish since 2008, which has contributed to lower charter rates for marine transportation services since then. Many experts believe that a confluence of factors in the United States, Europe, Asia and developing economies could result in a prolonged period of economic downturn, slow growth or economic uncertainty. If these conditions persist, our customers and potential customers may experience deterioration in their business, which may result in a lower demand for our transportation services or impair the ability of our customers or other third parties to pay amounts owed to us. Moreover, our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to pay dividends and our future prospects will likely be materially and adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn in any of these countries or regions. The demand for our transportation services is also exposed to the risk that increases in trade protectionism or changes in trade patterns will adversely affect our business. If global economic conditions remain slack and uncertain, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Similarly, if changes in production costs or other factors cause manufacturing companies to continue to locate a greater share of their production facilities nearer to their consumers demand for our shipping services could be further depressed. Either of these could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, ability to pay dividends and future prospects. 7 Table of Contents If Congress does not make sufficient appropriations under the National Defense Authorization Act for any Fiscal Year, we may not continue to receive certain payments. If Congress does not make sufficient appropriations under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 in any fiscal year, we may not continue to receive annual payments with respect to certain of our U.S. Flag vessels that we have committed to the federal government under the U.S. Maritime Security Program. Under this program, which is currently in effect through 2025, each participating vessel received annual payments of $2.9 million in 2011 and $3.1 million in 2012, and is scheduled to receive our annual payment of $3.1 million in 2013. As of December 31, 2012, eight of our vessels operated under contracts issued under this program. Since payments under this program are subject to annual appropriations by Congress and are not guaranteed, we cannot assure that we will continue to receive these annual payments, in full or in part. We cannot assure that we will be able to comply with all of our loan covenants. All of our credit agreements impose restrictions on our business and require us to comply with various loan covenants. The restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to: (i) consolidate or merge; (ii) incur new debt; (iii) engage in transactions with affiliates; (iv) create liens or permit them to exist on our assets; and (v) directly invest in assets other than vessels. These agreements also require us to comply with various financial covenants, including covenants that stipulate minimum levels of net worth, working capital and earnings, and maximum levels of debt and debt leverage. Our ability to satisfy these and other covenants depends on our results of operations and ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions. Several of these matters are beyond our control or may be significantly restricted, and, as a result, we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that otherwise might be considered beneficial to us and our stockholders. While we currently believe that we have available options to prevent or mitigate any covenant breaches, we cannot assure that we will be able to implement them timely or at all, or that they will enable us to meet all of our current covenants. In the unanticipated event that our cash flow and capital resources are not sufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional capital, enter into financings of our unencumbered vessels or restructure debt. Based on current circumstances, we believe we can continue to fund our working capital and routine capital expenditure needs through cash flow from operations or accessing available lines of credit. For further detailed information on our compliance with our financial covenants as of December 31, 2012, see below in this report “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Debt Covenants.” Because our debt obligations are represented by separate agreements with different lenders, in some cases the breach of any of these covenants or other default under one agreement may create an event of default under other agreements, resulting in the acceleration of our obligation to pay principal, interest and potential penalties under such other agreements (even though we may otherwise be in compliance with all of our obligations under those agreements). Thus, an event of default under a single agreement, including one that is technical in nature or otherwise not material, could result in the acceleration of significant indebtedness under multiple lending agreements. If amounts outstanding under such agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would generate sufficient cash flow to repay the accelerated indebtedness, or that our lenders would not proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act, or if this law was modified or repealed. A portion of our shipping operations and substantially all of the shipping operations we acquired from UOS are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade. Under U.S. federal laws known as the “Jones Act,” this trade is restricted to vessels built in the United States, owned and manned by U.S. citizens and registered under U.S. Flag. Our failure to comply with these restrictions could subject us to severe penalties, including the permanent loss of the right to engage in U.S. coastwise trade. If the Jones Act were repealed, substantially amended or waived, it could potentially result in additional competition from vessels built in generally lower-cost foreign shipyards and owned and manned by foreign nationals, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that the Jones Act will not be repealed or modified in a way that would be detrimental to our business. Terrorist attacks, piracy and international hostilities can affect the transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks or piracy attacks against merchant ships, the outbreak of war, or the existence of international hostilities could adversely affect us in several ways, including: · damaging the world economy; · adversely affecting the availability of and demand for transportation services generally, or our vessels in particular; · increasing the cost of insurance; · disrupting our vessel usage or deployment; and · adversely affecting the value of our vessels or our ability to profitably operate our vessels and serve our customers. Over the past several years, piracy attacks on merchant ships have remained high, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the East Coast of Africa. Our industry is a sector of the economy that we believe is particularly likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist attacks, war, international hostilities or piracy. In addition, we conduct operations in Indonesia, Southern Mexico, West Africa, Arabian Gulf, and other areas that are particularly likely to be exposed to the risk of these potential adverse effects. 8 Table of Contents The market value of vessels fluctuates significantly, which could adversely affect our liquidity, result in breaches of our financing agreements or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. The market values of vessels fluctuate over time. The fluctuation in market value of vessels over time is based upon various factors, including: · the age of the vessel; · general economic and market conditions affecting the ocean transportation industry, including the demand for cargoes and the availability of vessel financing; · the number of vessels in the world fleet; · the types and sizes of vessels available; · changes in trading patterns or trading routes that affect demand for particular sizes and types of vessels; · the cost of vessels under construction and scrap prices; · prevailing levels of time charter and voyage rates; · changes in regulation or competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation; and · technological advances in vessel design and propulsion. Declining values of our vessels could adversely affect us in several respects, including reducing our liquidity by limiting our ability to raise cash by refinancing vessels. Declining vessel values could also result in a breach of loan covenants or trigger events of default under relevant financing agreements that require us to maintain certain loan-to-value ratios. In such instances, if we are unable or unwilling to pledge additional collateral to offset the decline in vessel values, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels pledged as collateral for the loans. In addition, accounting pronouncements require that we periodically review our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Measurement of the impairment charge is based on the fair value of the asset as provided by third parties as compared to its carrying value. In this respect, management regularly reviews the carrying amount of our vessels in connection with the estimated recoverable amount for each vessel. Such reviews may from time to time result in asset write-downs that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For information on the impairment charge we recognized in 2010 in connection with our Rail-Ferry segment, see “– Our Rail-Ferry segment has a history of losses, and we can give no assurances as to its future profitability.” As a holding company with no operations of our own, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company without any material assets or operations, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to us. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt, or to declare and make dividend payments to the holders of our securities. The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our respective obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. Additionally, our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us, or, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing purposes, to make any funds available to us to pay dividends or to repay our debt or other obligations. Our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will also be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. Our business and financial alternatives could be constrained by our current obligations and any future borrowings. As a result of additional borrowings or operating leases we incurred to finance the UOS acquisition, we have become more leveraged. See our Consolidated Balance Sheets on page F-5. In addition to the liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2012, we owe substantial amounts under our long-term operating leases. Our leverage could have material adverse consequences for us, including: · hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions; · limiting our ability to access the capital markets to refinance maturing debt or to fund acquisitions of vessels or businesses; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt, thereby limiting the amount of free cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, dividends, stock repurchases or growth opportunities; · making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors who have less indebtedness. We expect to periodically require financing to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Due to the unstable economy and the current credit market environment, we may not be able to refinance maturing debt at terms that are as favorable as those from which we previously benefited, at terms that are acceptable to us or at all. In connection with executing our business strategies, from time to time we evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional vessels or businesses, and we may elect to finance such acquisitions by incurring additional indebtedness. Moreover, if we were to suffer uninsured material losses or liabilities, we could be required to borrow to fund liabilities that we could not pay with our operating cash flow. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit may be adversely affected and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our current indebtedness could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our access to the public debt and equity markets will remain free of disruptions. In the future, we may consider selling debt and/or equity securities to raise additional funds, including to refinance a portion of our maturing debt. Our ability to arrange any such financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crises in Europe, the failure of the United States to reduce its deficit in amounts deemed to be sufficient, downgrades in the credit ratings of the U.S. debt, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize our ability to repay, refinance or reduce our debt obligations. We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. The ability of our counterparties to perform their obligations under their contracts with us will depend upon a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions and the overall financial condition of these counterparties, especially in light of the current global financial weakness. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under their agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses or a reduction in our vessel usage, both of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Older vessels have higher operating costs and are potentially less desirable to charterers. The average age of the vessels in our fleet that we own or lease, excluding our UOS vessels, is approximately 12 years (nine years if our partially-owned Mini Bulk Carriers built in 2010 and 2011 are included in the average). The average age of our UOS vessels actively providing services is approximately 32 years (which reflects the longer vessel lives typically associated with vessels deployed in U.S. coastwise trade). See below in this report “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Summary– Overview of Fleet.” In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase and become more difficult to estimate with accuracy as the age of the vessel increases. Moreover, customers generally prefer modern vessels over older vessels, which places the older vessels at a competitive disadvantage, especially in weak markets. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, compliance with classification society standards and customer requirements or competition may require us to make additional expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to make such alterations or add such equipment, we may be required to take our vessels out of service, thereby reducing our revenues. Expenditures such as these may also require us to incur additional debt or raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that market or general economic conditions will enable us to replace our existing vessels with new vessels, justify the expenditures necessary to maintain our older vessels in good operating condition or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their estimated useful lives. Our Rail-Ferry Segment has a history of losses, and we can give no assurances as to its future gross voyage profitability. This service began operating in February of 2001 and in the past has been unprofitable every year with the exception of 2008, 2011, and 2012. In 2009, the worldwide economic downturn negatively impacted the volumes and cargo rates for this service, especially on its northbound route to the U.S. As a result of a reduction in future anticipated cash flows generated by this service, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $25.4 million in the third quarter of 2010 to reduce the carrying value of these assets to their estimated fair value. With the reduced capital cost and an increase in cargoes, this segment was profitable for the last two years. We cannot assure that this service will be operated profitably in the future. We are subject to the risk of continuing high prices, and increasing prices, of the fuel we consume in our Rail-Ferry segment, Jones Act segment and Revenue Sharing Agreements We are exposed to commodity price risks with respect to fuel consumption under our contracts of affreightment, our rail-ferry service and our revenue-sharing agreements based on the number of voyage contracts concluded by the participating vessels. We can give no assurance that we will be able to offset higher fuel costs due to the competitive nature of these operations. Although we currently have some fuel surcharges in place, a material increase in current fuel prices that are not covered by fuel surcharges or that we cannot recover through fuel cost surcharges could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and operations are highly regulated, which can adversely affect our operations. Our business and the shipping industry in general are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing our vessels, including workers’ health and safety, and the staffing, construction, operation, insurance and transfer of our vessels. Compliance with or the enforcement of these laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, in the event of war or national emergency, our U.S. Flag vessels are subject to requisition by the U.S. government. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of our vessels, the amount and timing of such payments would be uncertain and there would be no guarantee that such amounts would be paid, or if paid, would fully satisfy lost profits associated with the requisition. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain and maintain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. In certain instances, the failure to obtain or maintain these authorizations could have an adverse effect on our business. We may also be required to periodically modify operating procedures or alter or introduce new equipment for our existing vessels to appropriately respond to changes in governmental regulation. Our business and the operation of our vessels are subject to extensive international, national and local environmental, health and safety laws in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in penalties, sanctions or, in certain cases, the ultimate suspension or termination of our operations. Litigation initiated by an environmental advocacy group recently suspended a portion of UOS’s operations for approximately two years, and it is possible that similar suits could interrupt the operations of our incumbent or newly-acquired vessels. International, national and local laws imposing liability for oil spills are also becoming increasingly stringent. Some impose joint, several, and in some cases, unlimited liability on owners, operators and charterers regardless of fault. We could be held liable as an owner, operator or charterer under these laws. In addition, under certain circumstances, we could also be held accountable under these laws for acts or omissions of our affiliates, our charterers or other parties in connection with the management or operation of our vessels. Liability for a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage we have available, and result in our having to liquidate assets to pay claims. In addition, we may be required to contribute to funds established by regulatory authorities for the remediation of oil pollution damage or to provide financial assurances for oil spill liability to regulatory authorities. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspections and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery of cargoes, and the levying of customs, duties, fines and other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our failure to pass inspection by classification societies and regulators could result in one or more of our vessels being unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by an international classification society authorized by its country of registry, as well as being subject to survey and inspection by shipping regulatory bodies. The international classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the United Nations Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Due to the age of several of our vessels, the repairs and remediations required in connection with classification society surveys and inspections may be extensive and require significant expenditures. Additionally, until such time as certain repairs and remediations required in connection with such surveys and inspections are completed (or if any vessel fails such a survey or inspection), the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable. Any such loss of the use of a vessel could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and any such impact may be material. 10 Table of Contents We face periodic drydocking costs for our vessels, which can be substantial. Vessels must be drydocked periodically for regulatory compliance and for maintenance and repair. Our drydocking requirements are subject to associated risks, including delay and cost overruns, lack of necessary equipment, unforeseen engineering problems, employee strikes or other work stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. A significant delay in drydockings could have an adverse effect on our contract commitments. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. Our insurance does not cover these costs. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our assets or result from our operations. The operation of our vessels are subject to various inherent risks, including: · catastrophic marine disaster; · adverse weather conditions; · mechanical failure; · collisions; · hazardous substance spills; · seizure or expropriation of our vessels by governments, pirates, combatants or others; and · navigation and human errors. The occurrence of any of these events may result in, among other things, damage to or loss of our vessels and our vessels' cargo or other property, delays in delivery of cargo, damage to other vessels and the environment, loss of revenues, termination of vessel charters or other contracts, fines, penalties or other restrictions on conducting business, damage to our reputation and customer relationships, and injury to personnel. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in our operating costs or liability to third parties. Although we maintain insurance coverage against most of these risks at levels our management considers to be customary in the industry, risks may arise for which we are not adequately insured. Various claims, such as loss of hire, may not be covered by our policies. Additionally, any particular claim may be subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that insurance will remain available at reasonable rates for each of our foreseeable risks that we seek to insure, especially those relating to terrorism or piracy. Similarly, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverages will be adequate to cover future claims as they arise, or that available insurance will cover all foreseeable risks, particularly those involving catastrophic environmental liability. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or condition. Additionally, certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual “protection and indemnity” associations, which are mutual insurance clubs whose members must contribute payments to cover losses sustained by other club members. As a mutual club, a substantial portion of its continued viability to effectively manage liability risks is reliant upon the premiums paid by its members. As a member of such associations, we may incur the obligation to satisfy payments in addition to previously established or budgeted premiums to the extent member claims would surpass the reserves of the association. We may be subject to calls or premiums in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members (or the members of affiliated clubs) over which we have no control. Our payment of these calls could result in significant additional expenses. We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Our non-domestic operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services in foreign jurisdictions. In addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: · economic, political and social instability; · potential vessel seizure, terrorist attacks, piracy, kidnapping, the expropriation of assets and other governmental actions, many of which are not covered by our insurance; · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; · potential submission to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel; · pandemics or epidemics that disrupt worldwide trade or the movement of vessels; · import and export quotas; · longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable, · additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as other anti-corruption laws; and · the imposition of unanticipated or increased taxes, increased environmental and safety regulations or other forms of public and governmental regulation that increase our operating expenses. Many of these risks are beyond our control, and we cannot predict the nature or the likelihood of the occurrence or corresponding effect of any such events, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels could be seized by maritime claimants, which could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. Under general maritime law in many jurisdictions, crew members, vessel mortgagees, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts or claims for damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow during the detainment period. In some jurisdictions, under the extended “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest not only the vessel with respect to which the claimant’s maritime lien has arisen, but also any associated vessel under common ownership or control. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us or any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels we own. While we have insurance coverage for these types of claims, we cannot guarantee it will cover all of our potential exposure. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to attract and retain skilled crew members, our reputation and ability to operate safely and efficiently may be harmed. Our continued success depends in significant part on the continued services of the officers and seamen who operate our vessels. The market for qualified, experienced officers and seamen is extremely competitive and has grown more so in recent periods for a variety of reasons. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain properly skilled personnel at commercially reasonable salaries. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to operate cost-effectively. A substantial number of our shipboard employees are unionized. In the event of a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operations may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2012, all of our U.S. shipboard personnel were unionized employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Given the prevalence of maritime trade unions and their corresponding influence over its members, the shipping industry is vulnerable to work stoppages and other potentially disruptive actions by employees. We may also have difficulty successfully negotiating renewals to our collective bargaining agreements with these unions or face resistance to any future efforts to place restraints on wages, reduce labor costs or moderate work practices. Any of these events may result in strikes, work disruptions and have other potentially adverse consequences. While we have experienced no strikes, work stoppages or other significant labor problems during the last ten years, we cannot assure that such events will not occur in the future or be material in nature. In the event we experience one or more strikes, work stoppages or other labor problems, our business and, in turn, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be required to contribute cash to meet our obligations under certain multi-employer pension plans and may have exposure if we terminate our participation in these plans. Domestically, we participate in and make periodic contributions to various multi-employer pension plans under union and industry-wide agreements that generally provide defined benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Funding requirements for benefit obligations of multi-employer pension plans are subject to certain regulatory requirements and we may be required to make cash contributions which may be material to one or more of these plans to satisfy certain underfunded benefit obligations. In addition, if a multi-employer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service may impose certain penalties and taxes. Absent an applicable exemption, a contributor to a multi-employer plan is liable, upon termination or withdrawal from the plan, for its proportionate share of the plan’s underfunded vested liability. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination may be material to our financial position and results of operations. Moreover, in the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan that is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Delays or cost overruns in building new vessels (including the failure to deliver new vessels) could harm us. Building new vessels is subject to risks of delay (including the failure to timely deliver new vessels to customers) or cost overruns caused by one or more of the following: · financial difficulties of the shipyard building a vessel, including bankruptcy; · unforeseen quality or engineering problems; · work stoppages; · weather interference; · unanticipated cost increases; · delays in receipt of necessary materials or equipment; · changes to design specifications; and · inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from governmental authorities and the applicable classification society upon completion of work. Significant delays, cost overruns and failure to timely deliver new vessels we have committed to service our customers could adversely affect us in several ways, including delaying the implementation of our business strategies or materially increasing our cost of servicing our commitments to our customers. Some of our employees are covered by laws limiting our protection from exposure to certain claims. Some of our employees are covered by several maritime laws, statutes and regulations which circumvent and nullify certain liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and the Seamen’s Wage Act. We are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these particular employees, and as a result, our exposure for claims asserted by these employees may be greater than would otherwise be the case. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to the control of our principal stockholders. As of March 1, 2013, two of our current directors, Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen, and their respective family members and affiliated entities, beneficially owned an aggregate of 21.9% of our common stock. Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen are also executive officers of the Company, and their respective fathers are former executive officers. Erik F. Johnsen, father to Erik L. Johnsen, continued to provide consulting services to us through December 31, 2011, and served as a director through April 25, 2012. As a result, the Johnsen family may have the ability to exert significant influence over our affairs and management, including the election of directors, delaying or preventing a change of control transaction, and effecting other corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. We have a Yen-denominated loan and volatility in the USD/Yen exchange rate could cause material adjustments to the earnings we report each quarter. We have a Yen-denominated loan of Yen 3,650,806,027 which at December 31, 2012, the remaining outstanding balance of which equated to a USD $42.1 million liability at a USD/Yen exchange rate of 86.74. As described further in our periodic SEC reports, current accounting guidelines require us to record adjustments to our earnings each quarter based on the impact that changes in exchange rates have on our liability under this loan. Volatility in the USD/Yen exchange ratios could cause material adjustments to the earnings we report each quarter. Because some of our expenses are incurred in foreign currencies, we are exposed to exchange rate risks. While we incur most of our expenses in U.S. dollars, we have in the past incurred operating expenses in other currencies, most notably the Mexican Peso and Indonesian Rupiah. Declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the currencies in these jurisdictions, or other currencies in which we may in the future incur expenses, would increase the U.S. dollar cost of paying these expenses and thus would adversely affect our results of operations. We selectively enter into hedging derivative contracts, which can result in higher than market interest rates and charges against our income. In the ordinary course of our business, we are exposed to foreign currency, interest rate and commodity price risks. From time to time, we utilize derivative financial instruments including interest rate swap agreements and forward exchange contracts, and in the past we have also utilized commodity swap agreements to manage certain of these exposures. We hedge only firm commitments or anticipated transactions and do not use derivatives for speculation. We neither hold nor issue financial instruments for trading purposes. Nevertheless, even though our hedging strategies are designed to manage our exposure to interest rate fluctuations, entering into swaps and forward exchange contracts is inherently risky. The derivative strategies that we employ in the future may not be successful or effective, and we could, as a result, incur substantial additional interest costs or charges against our income. For further information, see “Item 7a – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk”. Loss of our senior management or other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of our senior management team and other key personnel, especially those of our Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chief Financial Officer, who have substantial experience in the shipping industry and over 111 years of collective experience with us. We believe that the experience of our senior management team is a vital component to maintain long-term relationships with our customers. Similarly, UOS’ senior management team will be integral to maintaining long-term relationships with UOS’ key customers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our future operating results, and we may have to incur significant costs to find sufficient replacements for them, if available. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters. Given the nature and scope of our operations, we are constantly vulnerable to disruption as a result of adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, typhoons, earthquakes and other natural disasters. These types of events may, among other things: · hinder our ability to effectively and timely provide scheduled service to our customers whether due to damage to our properties, to our customers’ operations, or to dock or other transportation facilities; · interfere with our terminal operations; · damage our vessels and equipment; or · result in injury or death to our employees. Any of these factors, especially to the extent not fully covered by insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We are exposed to various tax risks. As a taxpayer, we are subject to frequent and regular audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as state and local tax authorities. Because the ultimate outcomes of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results. We believe that we should not be subject to tax under the laws of any country other than the United States or Singapore in which we conduct activities or in which our customers are located. However, our belief is based on our understanding of the tax laws of those countries, and our tax position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law or interpretation. We cannot determine in advance the extent to which certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax or to make payments in lieu of tax. In addition, payments due to us from our customers could potentially be subject to tax claims. We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies, including risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented thereunder, have increased legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time consuming. Any future failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, which could in turn adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in us. If we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner, which could in certain instances limit our ability to borrow or raise capital. If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see below in this report ”Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies” If future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 13 Table of Contents Provisions in our organizational documents would make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if such a transaction is beneficial to our stockholders. Our organizational documents: · provide for blank check preferred stock; · prevent stockholders from calling special stockholder meetings or voting cumulatively; · impose certain foreign ownership limits with respect to our stock; · include various other provisions that could impede, delay or prevent certain takeovers or change of control transactions. See “– Risk Factors Related To Our Business – We are subject to the control of our principal stockholders,” the Johnsen family beneficially owns a substantial portion of our common stock. These provisions and circumstances could deter a third party from tendering for the purchase of some or all of our shares. These provisions and circumstances may have the effect of impeding, delaying or preventing changes of control of the ownership and management of ISH, even if such transactions would have significant benefits to our stockholders. Risks Related To Our Dividends We cannot assure you that quarterly dividends on, or any other payments in respect of, our Series A Preferred Shares will be made timely or at all. For the reasons noted below, we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock at the current rate, timely or at all. Likewise,we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay quarterly dividends on, or make other payments in respect of, our Series A Preferred Shares timely at all. Quarterly dividends on our common stock and the Series A Preferred Shares will be paid from funds legally available for such purpose when, as and if declared by our board of directors. You should be aware that certain factors may influence our decision, or adversely affect our ability, to pay dividends on our common stock or our Series A Preferred Shares, including, among other things: · the amount of our available cash or other liquid assets, including the impact of any liquidity shortfalls caused by the below-described restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to generate and lawfully transfer cash to us; · circumstances that impact our future financial position or performance, including changes in vessel deployment or vessel rates, changes in our costs, the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet, the number of days required for dry-docking of our vessels, prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions, and the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; · our ability to service and refinance our current and future indebtedness; · changes in our cash requirements to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions or other operational or strategic initiatives; · changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions; · our ability to borrow or raise additional capital to satisfy our capital needs; · restrictions imposed by our existing, or any future, credit facilities, debt securities or leases, including restricted payment and leverage covenants ; and · limitations on cash payments to shareholders under Delaware law, including limitations that require dividend payments be made out of surplus or, subject to certain limitations, out of net profits for the then-current or preceding year in the event there is no surplus. Based on its evaluation of these and other relevant factors, our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, decide not to declare a dividend on our common stock or our Series A Preferred Shares for any quarterly period for any reason, regardless of whether we have funds legally available for such purposes. Holders of our common stock should be aware that terms of our Series A Preferred Shares further limit our ability, under certain circumstances, to make dividend or other payments in respect of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Recent Acquisition of UOS We may be unable to successfully integrate UOS’s business and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We are operating UOS as a separate subsidiary managed by its pre-acquisition management team. We have been devoting significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of UOS with our operations. Potential difficulties that we may encounter in the integration process include the following: · lost sales if customers decide not to do business with us; · the failure to retain key employees; and · potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory issues associated with the acquisition. For all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could distract our management or disrupt our ongoing business, which could in turn adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. We expect to incur integration expenses related to the UOS acquisition. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur certain expenses in connection with integrating many of UOS’s operations, policies and procedures with ours. These expenses include wage and benefit increases necessary to integrate UOS’s non-union personnel into our unions. While we have assumed that a certain amount of integration expenses will continue to be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these expenses. Any additional future acquisitions of vessels or businesses by us would subject us to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact our capital structure. From time to time in the future we may pursue other acquisition opportunities in an effort to implement our business strategies. Acquisitions may be of individual or groups of vessels or of businesses. To the extent we acquire a business that is financially unstable or is otherwise subject to a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular business or assets that we may acquire. In addition, the financing of any future acquisition completed by us could adversely impact our capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional securities or the borrowing of additional funds. Except as required by law or the rules of any securities exchange on which our securities might be listed at the time we seek to consummate an acquisition, we do not expect to ask our stockholders to vote on any proposed acquisition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 14 Table of Contents 