ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations are highly-regulated. Our business is materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations, and laws and regulations of the flag nations of our vessels, including laws relating to the discharge of materials into the environment. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we are unable to predict the ultimate costs of compliance. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain and maintain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. In certain instances, the failure to obtain or maintain such permits, licenses or certificates could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of war or national emergency, our U.S. flag vessels are subject to requisition by the United St ates without any guarantee of compensation for lost profits, although the United States government has traditionally paid fair compensation in such circumstances. If sufficient appropriations under the Maritime Security Act of 1996 are not made in any fiscal year, we may not continue to receive annual payments with respect to certain of our vessels. Under the MSP program discussed earlier in the Regulation section, each participating vessel is eligible to receive an annual payment of $2.6 million in years 2007 and 2008, $2.9 million in years 2009 to 2011, and $3.1 million in years 2012 to 2015. As of December 31, 2006, eight of our vessels operated under MSP contracts. Payments under this program are subject to annual appropriation by Congress and are not guaranteed. Congress may not make sufficient appropriations under the program in one or more fiscal years and, as a result, we can provide no assurance as to our continued receipt, in full or in part, of the annual payments. For the program’s fiscal year 2006, each participating vessel was eligible to receive annual payments of $2.6 million. Congress appropriated $2.575 million for fiscal year 2006, a decrease of approximately 1%. An increase in the supply of vessels without a corresponding increase in demand for vessels could cause our charter and cargo rates to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Historically, the shipping industry has been cyclical. The profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated in part because of changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. If the number of new vessels delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessels increases and the demand for vessels does not, the charter and cargo rates for our vessels could decline significantly. A decline in our charter and cargo rates could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earn ings. The revenues of our liner services segment are subject to seasonal and cyclical variations, which may cause material fluctuations in our reported earnings. The demand for certain cargoes carried in our Liner Services, such as agricultural products, steel and forest products, and the corresponding demand for Liner Services to ship these cargoes, has historically exhibited seasonal and cyclical variations. As a result, the revenues of our Liner Services segment are subject to seasonal and cyclical variations, which may cause material fluctuations in our revenues and earnings on a quarterly or annual basis, or both. Our Rail-Ferry Service has been unprofitable to date, and we can give no assurance as to its future profitability. Our Rail-Ferry Service began operating in February of 2001. The introduction of this service in a competitive market contributed $7.5 million to our net loss in 2001, and the service had losses totaling $10.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004. The service had losses of $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, although $2.5 million was directly related to losses from Hurricane Katrina. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the 10 service had losses of $14 million, which included an impairment loss of $8.9 million to write-down our investment in the service’s terminal in New Orleans, Louisiana. During the third quarter of 2006, we decided to relocate the U.S. operations of this service from New Orleans, Louisiana to Mobile, Alabama due to the closure to long-term deep draft shipping of the MR-GO resulting from the effects of Hurricane Katrina. Completion of the terminal in Mobile is targeted for the beginning of the second quarter of 2007. We are in the process of adding a second deck to each vessel in order to essentially double their capacity and we expect the installation of the decks on both ships to be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2007. We are also making improvements to the terminal in Mexico and we expect it to be completed by the beginning of the second quarter of 2007. We believe that this expansion will significantly reduce our cost per unit of cargo carried and increase our cash flow, but only if we are able to book substantially all of the additional capacity, and we can give no assurance at this time that we will be successful in doing so. We are subject to the risk of continuing high prices, and increasing prices, of the fuel we consume in our Liner and Rail-Ferry operations. We are exposed to commodity price risks with respect to fuel consumption in our Liner and Rail-Ferry operations, and we can give no assurance that we will be able to offset higher fuel costs due to the competitive nature of these operations. We currently have fuel surcharges in place, however, a material increase in current fuel prices that we cannot recover through these fuel cost surcharges could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For an analysis of the effect on our operating costs and earnings per share of an increase in fuel prices, see Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk on page 29. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The shipping industry is intensely competitive and can be influenced by economic and political events that are outside the control of shipping companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew expiring charters on economically attractive terms, maintain attractive freight rates, pass cost increases through to our customers or otherwise successfully compete against our competitors. We are subject to the control of our principal stockholders. Four of our directors, Niels W. Johnsen, Erik F. Johnsen, Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen, and their family members and affiliated entities, beneficially owned an aggregate of 36.23% (which includes currently exercisable options to acquire 400,000 shares) of the common stock of the Company as of December 31, 2006. As a result, the Johnsen family has the power to determine many of our policies, the election of our directors and officers, and the outcome of various corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Operating hazards may increase our operating costs; our insurance coverage is limited. Our vessels are subject to operating risks such as: (i) catastrophic marine disaster; (ii) adverse weather conditions; (iii) mechanical failure; (iv) collisions; (v) hazardous substance spills; (vi) war, terrorism and piracy; and (vii) navigation and other human errors. The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to or loss of our vessels and our vessels' cargo or other property, damage to other vessels and the environment, and injury to personnel. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in our operating costs or liability to third parties. In addition, such occurrences may result in our company being held strictly liable for pollution damages under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act or one of the international conventions to which our vessels operating in foreign waters may be subject. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of these risks, which our management considers to be customary in the industry. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Our international shipping operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States. These risks include, among others: (i) economic, political and social instability; (ii) potential vessel seizure, expropriation of assets and other governmental actions, which are not covered by our insurance; (iii) currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; (iv) potential submission to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel; and (v) import and export quotas, the imposition of increased environmental and safety regulations and other forms of public and governmental regulation. Many of these risks are beyond our control, and we cannot predict the nature or the likelihood of any such events. However, if such an event should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels could be seized by maritime claimants, which could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts or claims for damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called “sister ship” arrests, that allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any “associated” vessel. In nations with these laws, an “association” may be recognized when two vessels are owned by 11 companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us, any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels we own. While we have insurance coverage for these type of claims, we cannot guarantee it will cover all of our exposure. A substantial number of our employees are unionized; in the event of a strike or other work stoppage our business and operations may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2006, with only minor exceptions, all of our shipboard personnel and certain of our shoreside personnel were covered by collective bargaining agreements. While we have experienced no strikes, work stoppages or other significant labor problems during the last ten years, we cannot assure you that such events will not occur in the future. In the event we experience one or more strikes, work stoppages or other labor problems, our business and operations and, in turn, our results of operations, may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to renew our time charters and contracts when they expire. There can be no assurance that any of our existing time or bareboat charters or contract of affreightment will be renewed or, if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates. If upon expiration of our existing charters and contracts, we are unable to obtain new charters or contracts at rates comparable to those received under the expired charters or contracts, our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Older vessels have higher operating costs and are less desirable to charterers. The average age of the vessels in our fleet that we own or lease, excluding our LASH vessels and those under short-term leases, is approximately 12 years. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with classification society standards may require us to make expenditures for new equipment. In order to add such equipment, we may be required to take our vessels out of service, thereby reducing our revenues. Moreover, customers generally prefer modern vessels over older vessels, which places the older vessels at a competitive disadvantage, especiall y in weak markets. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify the expenditures necessary to maintain our older vessels in good operating condition or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their estimated useful lives. We face periodic drydocking costs for our vessels, which can be substantial. Vessels must be drydocked periodically. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial and our insurance does not cover these costs. We are highly leveraged. While we continue to reduce our leverage position, we are still highly leveraged, when consideration is given to our off-balance sheet operating leases. We devote a substantial portion of our operating income to service our debt and operating leases. A default under one of our debt agreements may result in a default under one or more of our other debt agreements. Our debt obligations are represented by separate agreements with different lenders. A default under any agreement can result in the acceleration of principal and interest, and in some cases penalties, under that agreement. In some cases, a default under one agreement may create an event of default under other agreements, resulting in the acceleration of principal, interest and penalties under such other agreements even though we are otherwise in compliance with all payment and other obligations under those agreements. Thus, an event of default under a single agreement, including one that is technical in nature or otherwise not material, may create an event of default under multiple lending agreements, which could result in the acceleration of significant indebtedness under multiple a greements that we may not be able to pay or refinance at that time. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments and our preferred stock impose restrictions on our business. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments and our convertible exchangeable preferred stock contain a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. The restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to: (i) purchase, redeem and pay dividends on our capital stock; (ii) make investments; (iii) engage in transactions with affiliates; and (iv) create or permit to exist liens on our assets. These agreements also require us to meet a number of financial ratios. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that otherwise might be considered beneficial to the Company and our common stockholders. In addition, the breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under several other of these agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under any such agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. If amounts outstanding under such agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the accelerated indebtedness. 12 ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 