ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are a list of factors that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or prospects. These risk factors discuss all known material risks. Our revenues decreased in 2011 and could decrease further in 2012. Beginning in 2008, our revenues and gross voyage profits benefited from significant increases in the volume of supplemental cargos carried by our vessels. These supplemental cargoes peaked during the fourth quarter of 2009, and have decreased every quarter since then to levels comparable to 2008. If our supplemental cargo volumes continue to decrease, our revenues and gross voyage profits will be negatively impacted. The MPS contracts, which constituted approximately 10% of our revenues in 2011, were not re-awarded to us in January 2012. If we are unable to conclude new business that generates revenue comparable to these contracts, our revenues will be impacted. We may not be able to renew our time charters and contracts when they expire at favorable rates or at all. During 2011, we received approximately 63% of our revenue from time charters (excluding supplemental cargoes), bareboat charters or contracts of affreightment. However, there can be no assurance that any of these charters or contracts, which are generally for periods of one year or more, will be renewed at favorable rates, or at all. Shipping rates are based on several factors that are unpredictable and beyond our control. If, upon expiration of our existing charters and contracts, we are unable to obtain new charters or contracts at rates comparable to those received under the expired charters or contracts, our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The shipping industry is intensely competitive and can be influenced by economic and political events that are largely outside the control of shipping companies. We compete with companies that have greater resources than we have, or who may be better positioned to adapt to changes in market or economic conditions. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to deploy our vessels on economically attractive terms, maintain attractive freight rates, pass cost increases through to our customers or otherwise successfully compete against our competitors. Any failure to remain competitive in the shipping industry could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the demand for our services or vessels could cause our charter and cargo rates to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Historically, the shipping industry has been cyclical. The nature, timing and degree of changes to industry conditions are generally unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of our assets or our financial performance. Various factors influence the demand for our transportation services, including worldwide demand for the products we carry and changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The worldwide supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new, refurbished or converted vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. If the available supply of vessels exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity and competition in the markets where we operate may increase. In the absence of a corresponding increase in the demand for these vessels, the charter hire and cargo rates for our vessels could fluctuate significantly and result in, among other things, lower operating revenues and reduced earnings. The demand for our transportation services may be adversely affected by a prolonged economic downturn or economic uncertainty. The demand for our transportation services has been and will continue to be affected by domestic and global economic conditions. Worldwide economic growth has been sluggish since 2008, and many experts believe that a confluence of factors in the United States, Europe and developing economies could result in a prolonged period of economic downturn, slow growth or economic uncertainty. If these conditions persist, our customers and potential customers may experience a deterioration in their business, which may result in a lower demand for our transportation services or impair the ability of our customers or other third parties to pay amounts owed to us. If Congress does not make sufficient appropriations under the Maritime Security Act of 1996, we may not continue to receive certain payments. If Congress does not make sufficient appropriations under the Maritime Security Act of 1996 in any fiscal year, we may not continue to receive annual payments with respect to certain of our U.S. Flag vessels that we have committed to the federal government under the U.S. Maritime Security Program. Under this program, each participating vessel received an annual payment of $2.9 million in 2011 and is scheduled to receive an annual payment of $3.1 million in 2012. As of December 31, 2011, eight of our vessels operated under contracts issued under this program. Since payments under this program are subject to annual appropriations by Congress and are not guaranteed, we cannot assure that we will continue to receive these annual payments, in full or in part. We cannot assure that we will be able to comply with all of our loan covenants. Substantially all of our credit agreements require us to comply with various loan covenants, including financial covenants that stipulate minimum levels of net worth and maximum levels of debt leverage. While we currently believe that we have available options to prevent or mitigate any covenant breaches, we cannot assure that we will be able to implement them timely or at all, or that they will enable us to meet all of our current covenants. In the unanticipated event that our cash flow and capital resources are not sufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, obtain additional capital, enter into financings of our unencumbered vessels or restructure debt. Based on current circumstances we believe we can continue to fund our working capital and routine capital investment liquidity needs through cash flow from operations and/or accessing available lines of credit. For further detailed information on our compliance with our financial covenants as of December 31, 2011, please see, “Liquidity and Capital Resources – 2011: Debt Covenants”. The market value of vessels fluctuates significantly, which could adversely affect our liquidity, result in breaches of our financing agreements or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. The market value of vessels fluctuates over time. The fluctuation in market value of vessels over time is based upon various factors, including: · age of the vessel, · general economic and market conditions affecting the transportation industry, including the demand for cargoes and the availability of vessel financing, · number of vessels in the world fleet, · types and sizes of vessels available, · changes in trading patterns affecting demand for particular sizes and types of vessels, · cost of newbuildings and scrap prices, · prevailing levels of charter rates, · competition from other shipping companies and other modes of transportation, and · technological advances in vessel design and propulsion. Declining values of our vessels could adversely affect us in several respects, including our liquidity by limiting our ability to raise cash by refinancing vessels. Declining vessel values could also result in a breach of loan covenants or trigger events of default under relevant financing agreements that require us to maintain certain loan-to-value ratios. In such instances, if we are unable or unwilling to pledge additional collateral to offset the decline in vessel values, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our vessels pledged as collateral for the loans. As a holding company with no operations of our own, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company without any material assets or operations, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to us. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us and them to make scheduled payments on our respective obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. Additionally, our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing purposes, to make any funds available to us to pay dividends or to repay our debt or other obligations. Our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will also be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments impose restrictions on our business. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments contain a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. The restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to: (i) consolidate or merge; (ii) incur new debt; (iii) engage in transactions with affiliates; (iv) create or permit to exist liens on our assets: and (v) in the case of a breach in certain financial covenants, pay cash dividends. These agreements also require us to attain a number of financial ratios that measure our financial position and performance. Our ability to satisfy these and other covenants depends on our results of operations and ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions. Several of these matters are beyond our control or may be significantly restricted, and, as a result, we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that otherwise might be considered beneficial to us and our common stockholders. In addition, as our debt obligations are represented by separate agreements with different lenders, in some cases the breach of any of these covenants or other default under one agreement may create an event of default under other agreements, resulting in the acceleration of our obligation to pay principal, interest and potential penalties under such other agreements (even though we may otherwise be in compliance with all of our obligations under those agreements). Thus, an event of default under a single agreement, including one that is technical in nature or otherwise not material, could result in the acceleration of significant indebtedness under multiple lending agreements. If amounts outstanding under such agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the accelerated indebtedness, or that our lenders would not proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. We are highly leveraged when considering commitments under operating leases. Our leverage could have material adverse consequences for us, including: · hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions, · limiting our ability to access the capital markets to refinance maturing debt or to fund acquisitions of vessels or businesses, · limiting the amount of free cash flow available for future operations, dividends, stock repurchases or other uses, · making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases, and · placing us at a competitive disadvantage to those of our competitors that have less indebtedness. In connection with executing our business strategies, from time to time we evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional vessels or businesses, and we may elect to finance such acquisitions by incurring additional indebtedness. Moreover, if we were to suffer uninsured material losses or liabilities, we could be required to raise substantial additional capital to fund liabilities that we could not pay with our operating cash flow. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are able to obtain additional financing, our credit may be adversely affected and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our current indebtedness could be adversely affected. If we plan to access the public debt markets, we cannot assure that these markets will remain free of disruptions. We have some amount of indebtedness that we intend to refinance a portion of which over the next couple of years. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. Prevailing market conditions could be adversely affected by the ongoing sovereign debt crises in Europe, the failure of the United States to reduce its deficit in amounts deemed to be sufficient additional, downgrades in the credit ratings of the U.S. debt, contractions or limited growth in the economy or other similar adverse economic developments in the U.S. or abroad. As a result, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Any such failure to obtain additional financing could jeopardize our ability to repay, refinance or reduce our debt obligations. 6 Table of Contents We are subject to certain risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or otherwise adversely affect our business. The ability of our counterparties to perform their obligations under their contracts with us will depend upon a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions and the overall financial condition of these counterparties, especially in light of the recent global financial crisis. If our counterparties fail to honor their obligations under their agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses or a reduction in our vessel usage, both of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Older vessels have higher operating costs and are potentially less desirable to charterers. The average age of the vessels in our fleet that we own or lease is approximately 13 years, including the average age of our Pure Car/Truck Carrier fleet, which is approximately 11 years. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase and become more difficult to estimate with accuracy as the age of the vessel increases. Moreover, customers generally prefer modern vessels over older vessels, which places the older vessels at a competitive disadvantage, especially in weak markets. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, compliance with classification society standards and customer requirements or competition may require us to make additional expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to make such alterations or add such equipment, we may be required to take our vessels out of service, thereby reducing our revenues. Expenditures such as these may also require us to incur additional debt or raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that market or general economic conditions will enable us to replace our existing vessels with new vessels, justify the expenditures necessary to maintain our older vessels in good operating condition or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their estimated useful lives. Our Rail-Ferry Service has a history of losses, and we can give no assurances as to its future profitability. This service began operating in February of 2001 and in the past has been unprofitable every year except 2008. In 2009, the worldwide economic downturn negatively impacted the volumes and cargo rates for this service, especially on its northbound route to the U.S. As a result of a reduction in future anticipated cash flows generated by this service, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $25.4 million in the third quarter of 2010 to reduce the carrying value of these assets to their estimated fair value. With the reduced capital cost and an increase in cargoes, this segment was profitable in 2011. We cannot assure that this service will be operated profitably in the future, however even at unprofitable levels, the service has been cash positive. We are subject to the risk of continuing high prices, and increasing prices, of the fuel we consume in our Rail-Ferry Service and Contract of Affreightment segments. We are exposed to commodity price risks with respect to fuel consumption in our Rail-Ferry Service and Contract of Affreightment segments and in our revenue sharing agreements based on the number of voyage contracts concluded by the participating vessels, and we can give no assurance that we will be able to offset higher fuel costs due to the competitive nature of these operations. Although we currently have fuel surcharges in place, a material increase in current fuel prices that we cannot recover through these fuel cost surcharges could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and operations are highly regulated, which can adversely affect our operations. Our business and the shipping industry in general are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations governing our vessels, including worker’s health and safety, and the staffing, construction, operation, insurance and transfer of our vessels. Compliance with or the enforcement of these laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. For example, in the event of war or national emergency, our U.S. Flag vessels are subject to requisition by the U.S. government. Although we would be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of our vessels, the amount and timing of such payments would be uncertain and there would be no guarantee that such amounts would be paid, or if paid, would fully satisfy lost profits associated with the requisition. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain and maintain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. In certain instances, the failure to obtain or maintain these authorizations could have an adverse effect on our business. We may also be required to periodically modify operating procedures or alter or introduce new equipment for our existing vessels to appropriately respond to changes in governmental regulation. Our operations are also subject to laws and regulations related to environmental water and air protection. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in penalties, sanctions or, in certain cases, the ultimate suspension or termination of our operations. Additionally, some environmental laws impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for remediation of spills and the release of hazardous materials. As a result, we could become subject to liability irrespective of fault or negligence. These laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by our charterers or other parties. Terrorist attacks, piracy and international hostilities can affect the transportation industry, which could adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks or piracy attacks against merchant ships, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the East Coast of Africa, the outbreak of war, or the existence of international hostilities could damage the world economy, adversely affect the availability of and demand for transportation services, and adversely affect our ability to profitably operate and deploy our vessels. We operate in a sector of the economy that we believe is particularly likely to be adversely impacted by the effects of political instability, terrorist attacks, war, international hostilities or piracy. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our assets or result from our operations. The operation of our vessels are subject to inherent risks, such as: (i) catastrophic marine disaster; (ii) adverse weather conditions; (iii) mechanical failure; (iv) collisions; (v) hazardous substance spills; (vi) seizure or expropriation of our vessels by governments, pirates, combatants or others; and (vii) navigation and other human errors. The occurrence of any of these events may result in, among other things, damage to or loss of our vessels and our vessels' cargo or other property, delays in delivery of cargo, damage to other vessels and the environment, loss of revenues, termination of vessel charters or other contracts, fines, penalties or other restrictions on conducting business, damage to our reputation and customer relationships, and injury to personnel. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in our operating costs or liability to third parties. Although we maintain insurance coverage against most of these risks at levels our management considers to be customary in the industry, risks may arise for which we are not adequately insured. Additionally, any particular claim may not be covered by our policies, or may be subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could have an adverse effect on our financial performance or condition. We also make no assurances that we will be able to renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. Additionally, certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual “protection and indemnity” associations. As a mutual club, a substantial portion of its continued viability to effectively manage liability risks is reliant upon the premiums paid by its members. As a member of such associations, we may incur the obligation to satisfy payments in addition to previously established or budgeted premiums to the extent member claims would surpass the reserves of the association. We may be subject to calls or premiums in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members over which we have no control. Our payment of these calls could result in significant additional expenses. We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Our non-domestic operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes or interpretations may have a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver services in foreign jurisdictions. In addition to these international regulatory risks, some of the other risks inherent in conducting business internationally include, among others: (i) economic, political and social instability; (ii) potential vessel seizure, terrorist attacks, piracy, kidnapping, the expropriation of assets and other governmental actions, many of which are not covered by our insurance; (iii) currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; (iv) potential submission to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel; (v) pandemics or epidemics that disrupt worldwide trade or the movement of vessels; (vi) import and export quotas; (vii)longer payment cycles and problems collecting accounts receivable, (viii) additional U.S. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, as well as other anti-corruption laws; and (ix) the imposition of unanticipated or increased taxes, increased environmental and safety regulations or other forms of public and governmental regulation that increase our operating expenses. Many of these risks are beyond our control, and we cannot predict the nature or the likelihood of the occurrence or corresponding affect of any such events, each of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels could be seized by maritime claimants, which could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts or claims for damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow during the detainment period. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called “sister ship” arrests, that allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any “associated” vessel. In nations with these laws, an “association” may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us or any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels we own. While we have insurance coverage for these types of claims, we cannot guarantee it will cover all of our potential exposure. A substantial number of our shipboard employees are unionized. In the event of a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operations may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2011, all of our shipboard personnel were unionized employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Given the prevalence of maritime trade unions and their corresponding influence over its members, the shipping industry is vulnerable to work stoppages and other potentially disruptive actions by employees. We may also have difficulty successfully negotiating renewals to our collective bargaining agreements with these unions or face resistance to any future efforts to place restrains on wages, reduce labor costs or moderate work practices. Any of these events may result in strikes, work disruptions and have other potentially adverse consequences. While we have experienced no strikes, work stoppages or other significant labor problems during the last ten years, we cannot assure that such events will not occur in the future or be material in nature. In the event we experience one or more strikes, work stoppages or other labor problems, our business and, in turn, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Delays or cost overruns in building new vessels (including the failure to deliver new vessels) could harm us. Building new vessels is subject to risks of delay (including the failure to timely deliver new vessels to customers) or cost overruns caused by one or more of the following: · financial difficulties of the shipyard building a vessel, including bankruptcy, · unforeseen quality or engineering problems, · work stoppages, · weather interference, · unanticipated cost increases, · delays in receipt of necessary materials or equipment, · changes to design specifications, and · inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from governmental authorities and the applicable classification society upon completion of work. Significant delays, cost overruns and failure to timely deliver new vessels to customers could adversely affect us in several ways, including delaying the implementation of our business strategies or materially increasing our expected contract commitments to customers. 7 Table of Contents We face periodic drydocking costs for our vessels, which can be substantial. Vessels must be drydocked periodically for regulatory compliance and for maintenance and repair. Our drydocking requirements are subject to associated risks, including delay and cost overruns, lack of necessary equipment, unforeseen engineering problems, employee strikes or other work stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, inability to obtain necessary certifications and approvals and shortages of materials or skilled labor. A significant delay in drydockings could have an adverse effect on our contract commitments. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. Our insurance does not cover these costs. Some of our employees are covered by laws limiting our protection from exposure to certain claims. Some of our employees are covered by several maritime laws, statutes and regulations which circumvent and nullify certain liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, and the Seamen’s Wage Act. We are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these particular employees, and as a result, our exposure for claims asserted by these employees may be greater than would otherwise be the case. We are subject to the control of our principal stockholders. As of March 2, 2012, three of our current directors, Erik F. Johnsen, Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen, and their respective family members and affiliated entities, beneficially owned an aggregate of 23.27% of our common stock. Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen are also executive officers of the Company, and their respective fathers are former executive officers. Erik F. Johnsen continued to provide consulting services to us through December 31, 2011. As a result, the Johnsen family may have the ability to exert significant influence over our affairs and management, including the election of directors, delaying or preventing a change of control transaction, and effecting other corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. We have a Yen-denominated loan and volatility in the USD/Yen exchange rate could cause material adjustments to the earnings we report each quarter. We have a Yen-denominated loan of Yen 5,102,500,000 which at December 31, 2011, the remaining outstanding balance of which equated to a USD $60.8 million liability at a USD/Yen exchange rate of 76.92. As described further in this annual report and our other periodic SEC reports, current accounting guidelines require us to record adjustments to our earnings each quarter based on the impact that changes in exchange rates have on our liability under this loan. Volatility in the USD/Yen exchange ratios could cause material adjustments to the earnings we report each quarter. Repeal, amendment, suspension or failure to enforce the Jones Act could have an adverse affect on our business and results of operations. A portion of our shipping operations are conducted in the U.S. coastwise trade. Under the Jones Act, this trade is restricted to vessels built in the United States, owned and manned by U.S. citizens and registered under U.S. Flag. Our failure to comply with these restrictions could subject us to severe penalties, including the permanent loss of the right to engage in U.S. coastwise trade. If the Jones Act were repealed, substantially amended or waived, it could potentially result in additional competition from vessels built in generally lower-cost foreign shipyards and owned and manned by foreign nationals, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that the Jones Act will not be repealed or modified. Loss of our senior management or other key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of our senior management team and other key personnel, especially those of our Chief Executive Officer, President, and Chief Financial Officer, who have substantial experience in the shipping industry and over 108 years of collective experience with us. We believe that the experience of our senior management team is a vital component to maintain long-term relationships with our customers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our future operating results, and we may have to incur significant costs to find sufficient replacements for them, if available. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters. Given the nature and scope of our operations, we are constantly vulnerable to disruption as a result of adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, typhoons, earthquakes and other natural disasters. These type of events may, among other things, (i) hinder our ability to effectively and timely provide scheduled service to our customers whether due to damage to our properties, to our customers’ operations, or to dock or other transportation facilities; (ii) interfere with our terminal operations; (iii) damage our vessels and equipment; or (iv) result in injury or death to our employees. Any of these factors, especially to the extent not fully covered by insurance, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. We cannot assure that we will have the necessary funds to pay dividends on our common stock or we may elect not to pay dividends on our common stock in the future. While our Board currently plans to continue our dividend program, our stockholders may not receive additional dividends in the future for reasons that may include, without limitation, any of the following factors: · we may not have enough cash to pay such dividends due to changes in our cash requirements, capital or vessel spending plans, strategic objectives, cash flow or financial position, · debt covenants and corporate law limitations could restrict our ability to pay dividends, or the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, and · the actual amount of dividends distributed and the decision to make any distribution remains at all times entirely at the discretion of our Board of Directors, who are free to change or suspend our dividend program at any time. Our common stockholders should be aware that they have no contractual or other legal right to dividends. We may be required to contribute cash to meet our obligations under certain multi-employer pension plans. Domestically, we participate in and make periodic contributions to various multi-employer pension plans under union and industry-wide agreements that generally provide defined benefits to employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Absent an applicable exemption, a contributor to a multi-employer plan is liable, upon termination or withdrawal from the plan, for its proportionate share of the plan’s underfunded vested liability. Funding requirements for benefit obligations of multi-employer pension plans are subject to certain regulatory requirements and we may be required to make cash contributions which may be material to one or more of these plans to satisfy certain underfunded benefit obligations. The Company may have exposure under its multi-employer plans in which it participates that extends beyond its funding obligation with respect to the Company’s employees. The Company contributes to various multi-employer pension plans. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by the Company from any plan that is underfunded, the Company may be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which the Company cannot independently validate, the Company believes that its portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination may be material to its financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan that is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then the Company, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for its proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. In addition, if a multi-employer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service may impose certain penalties and taxes. We are exposed to risks arising out of tax audits. As a significant taxpayer, we are subject to frequent and regular audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as state and local tax authorities. These tax audits and examinations may result in tax liabilities that differ materially from those that we have recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Because the ultimate outcomes of these matters are uncertain, we can give no assurance as to whether an adverse result from one or more of them will have a material effect on our financial results We are exposed to risks arising out of recent legislation affecting U.S. public companies, including risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and related regulations implemented by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, are increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. Any future failure to successfully or timely complete annual assessments of our internal controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence in us, and could cause our stock price to fall. If we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner, which could in certain instances limit our ability to borrow or raise capital. If conditions or assumptions differ from the judgments, assumptions or estimates used in our critical accounting policies, the accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures could be affected. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. For a discussion of our critical accounting policies, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 of our annual report. If future events or assumptions differ significantly from the judgments, assumptions and estimates in our critical accounting policies, these events or assumptions could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 