ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations are highly-regulated. Our business is materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations, and laws and regulations of the flag nations of our vessels, including laws relating to the discharge of materials into the environment. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we are unable to predict the ultimate costs of compliance. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain and maintain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. In certain instances, the failure to obtain or maintain such permits, licenses or certificates could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of war or national emergency, our U.S. flag vessels are subject to requisition by the United States without any guarantee of compensation for lost profits, although the United States government has traditionally paid fair compensation in such circumstances. If sufficient appropriations under the Maritime Security Act of 1996 are not made in any fiscal year, we may not continue to receive annual payments with respect to certain of our vessels. Under the MSP program discussed earlier in the Regulation section, each participating vessel is eligible to receive an annual payment of $2.6 million in years 2007 and 2008, $2.9 million in years 2009 to 2011, and $3.1 million in years 2012 to 2015. As of December 31, 2007, eight of our vessels operated under MSP contracts. Payments under this program are subject to annual appropriations by Congress and are not guaranteed. Congress may not make sufficient appropriations under the program in one or more fiscal years and, as a result, we can provide no assurance as to our continued receipt, in full or in part, of the annual payments. For the program’s fiscal year 2007, each participating vessel was eligible to receive annual payments of $2.6 million. An increase in the supply of vessels without a corresponding increase in demand for vessels could cause our charter and cargo rates to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Historically, the shipping industry has been cyclical. The profitability and asset values of companies in the industry have fluctuated in part because of changes in the supply and demand of vessels. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. If the number of new vessels delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessels increases and the demand for vessels does not, the charter and cargo rates for our vessels could decline significantly. A decline in our charter and cargo rates could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and earnings. Our Rail-Ferry Service has been unprofitable, and we can give no assurance as to its future profitability. Our Rail-Ferry Service began operating in February of 2001. The introduction of this service in a competitive market contributed $7.5 million to our net loss in 2001, and the service had losses totaling $10.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004. The service had losses of $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, although $2.5 million was directly related to losses from Hurricane Katrina. In 2006, the service had losses of $5.1 million, net of a $8.9 million impairment loss related to the Service’s terminal. Although, as discussed further in Item 7 below, our losses from this service have narrowed in recent periods as a result of capital improvements, we cannot give assurances that this service will become or remain profitable in the future. We are subject to the risk of continuing high prices, and increasing prices, of the fuel we consume in our Rail-Ferry operations. We are exposed to commodity price risks with respect to fuel consumption in our Rail-Ferry operations, and we can give no assurance that we will be able to offset higher fuel costs due to the competitive nature of these operations. Although we currently have fuel surcharges in place, a material increase in current fuel prices that we cannot recover through these fuel cost surcharges could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For an analysis of the effect on our operating costs and earnings per share of an increase in fuel prices, see Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk on page 19. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The shipping industry is intensely competitive and can be influenced by economic and political events that are outside the control of shipping companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew expiring charters on economically attractive terms, maintain attractive freight rates, pass cost increases through to our customers or otherwise successfully compete against our competitors. We are subject to the control of our principal stockholders. Four of our directors, Niels W. Johnsen, Erik F. Johnsen, Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen, and their family members and affiliated entities, beneficially owned an aggregate of 25.2% of our common stock as of February 29, 2008. Niels M. Johnsen and Erik L. Johnsen are also executive officers of the Company, and their respective fathers are former executive officers who continue to provide consulting services to us. As a result, the Johnsen family may have significant influence over the election of directors and other corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. Operating hazards may increase our operating costs; our insurance coverage is limited. Our vessels are subject to operating risks such as: (i) catastrophic marine disaster; (ii) adverse weather conditions; (iii) mechanical failure; (iv) collisions; (v) hazardous substance spills; (vi) war, terrorism and piracy; and (vii) navigation and other human errors. The occurrence of any of these events may result in damage to or loss of our vessels and our vessels' cargo or other property, damage to other vessels and the environment, and injury to personnel. Such occurrences may also result in a significant increase in our operating costs or liability to third parties. In addition, such occurrences may result in our company being held strictly liable for pollution damages under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act or one of the international conventions to which our vessels operating in foreign waters may be subject. We maintain insurance coverage against certain of these risks, which our management considers to be customary in the industry. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to renew our existing insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or that such coverage will be adequate to cover future claims that may arise. We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Our international shipping operations are subject to risks inherent in doing business in countries other than the United States. These risks include, among others: (i) economic, political and social instability; (ii) potential vessel seizure, expropriation of assets and other governmental actions, which are not covered by our insurance; (iii) currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; (iv) potential submission to the jurisdiction of a foreign court or arbitration panel; and (v) import and export quotas, the imposition of increased environmental and safety regulations and other forms of public and governmental regulation. Many of these risks are beyond our control, and we cannot predict the nature or the likelihood of any such events. However, if such an event should occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our vessels could be seized by maritime claimants, which could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts or claims for damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the related off-hire period. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called “sister ship” arrests, that allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any “associated” vessel. In nations with these laws, an “association” may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us, any of our subsidiaries or our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels we own. While we have insurance coverage for these type of claims, we cannot guarantee it will cover all of our exposure. 7 Table of Contents A substantial number of our employees are unionized; in the event of a strike or other work stoppage our business and operations may be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2007, with only minor exceptions, all of our shipboard personnel were covered by collective bargaining agreements. While we have experienced no strikes, work stoppages or other significant labor problems during the last ten years, we cannot assure you that such events will not occur in the future. In the event we experience one or more strikes, work stoppages or other labor problems, our business and operations and, in turn, our results of operations, may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to renew our time charters and contracts when they expire. There can be no assurance that any of our existing time or bareboat charters or contract of affreightment will be renewed or, if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates. If upon expiration of our existing charters and contracts, we are unable to obtain new charters or contracts at rates comparable to those received under the expired charters or contracts, our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. Older vessels have higher operating costs and are less desirable to charterers. The average age of the vessels in our fleet that we own or lease is approximately 16 years, including the average age of our owned and leased Pure Car/Truck Carrier Fleet, which is approximately 10 years and our International Flag Bulk Carrier Fleet, which is approximately 8 years. In general, capital expenditures and other costs necessary for maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increase as the age of the vessel increases. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations and compliance with classification society standards may require us to make expenditures for new equipment. In order to add such equipment, we may be required to take our vessels out of service, thereby reducing our revenues. Moreover, customers generally prefer modern vessels over older vessels, which places the older vessels at a competitive disadvantage, especially in weak markets. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify the expenditures necessary to maintain our older vessels in good operating condition or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their estimated useful lives. We face periodicdrydocking costs for our vessels, which can be substantial. Vessels must be drydocked periodically. The cost of repairs and renewals required at each drydock are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial and our insurance does not cover these costs. A default under one of our debt agreements may result in a default under one or more of our other debt agreements. Our debt obligations are represented by separate agreements with different lenders. A default under any agreement can result in the acceleration of principal and interest, and in some cases penalties, under that agreement. In some cases, a default under one agreement may create an event of default under other agreements, resulting in the acceleration of principal, interest and penalties under such other agreements even though we are otherwise in compliance with all payment and other obligations under those agreements. Thus, an event of default under a single agreement, including one that is technical in nature or otherwise not material, may create an event of default under multiple lending agreements, which could result in the acceleration of significant indebtedness under multiple agreements that we may not be able to pay or refinance at that time. As a holding company, we rely on payments from our operating companies to meet our obligations. As a holding company, substantially all of our income and operating cash flow is dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to, or upon loans or other payments of funds by those subsidiaries to us. As a result, we rely upon our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations, including the payment of amounts owed under our long-term debt. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts owed by us or, subject to limited exceptions for tax-sharing purposes, to make any funds available to us to repay our obligations, whether by dividends, loans or other payments. Moreover, our rights to receive assets of any subsidiary upon its liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of creditors of that subsidiary, including trade creditors. The footnotes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein describe these matters in additional detail. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments impose restrictions on our business. The agreements governing certain of our debt instruments contain a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. The restrictions these covenants place on us include limitations on our ability to: (i) consolidate or merge; (ii) incur new debt; (iii) engage in transactions with affiliates; and (iv) create or permit to exist liens on our assets. These agreements also require us to meet a number of financial ratios. As a result of these covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that otherwise might be considered beneficial to the Company and our common stockholders. In addition, the breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under several other of these agreements that could lead the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, such lenders could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. If amounts outstanding under such agreements were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to generate sufficient cash flow to repay the accelerated indebtedness. ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have one unresolved comment from the Staff of the SEC dated January 8, 2008, related to filing of an amended Form 10-K for 2006, to include financial statements for an entity in which we owned a minority interest. We accounted for this as an unconsolidated equity interest which we sold in November of 2006. The staff’s position is that based on Rule 3-09 of Regulation SX, we should amend our 2006 Form 10-K to include audited financial statements for the period ended December 2005, and unaudited financial statements for the periods ended December 2004 and September 2006. On December 11, 2007, we filed an amended Form 10-K for 2006, which included audited financial statements for 2005 and unaudited Income Statements and Balance Sheets for periods ended December 2004 and September 2006. Our position is that we filed all of the information that was available at the time and that the new owners have refused to provide us with additional information. We have requested a waiver from filing any additional information with the SEC’s Office of Chief Accountant and are waiting on a decision on this request. 