Item 1A. Risk Factors. Strategic Risks and Strategy Execution Risks The Company must be able to anticipate, identify and respond to changing trends and customer preferences for decorative home furnishings and gifts. The success of the Company’s specialty retail business depends largely upon its ability to predict trends in decorative home furnishings and gifts consistently and to provide merchandise that satisfies consumer demand in a timely manner. Consumer preferences often change and may not be reasonably predicted. A majority of the Company’s merchandise is manufactured, purchased and imported from countries around the world and may be ordered well in advance of the applicable selling season. Extended lead times may make it difficult to respond rapidly to changes in consumer demand, and as a result, the Company may be unable to react quickly and source needed merchandise. In addition, the Company’s vendors may not have the ability to handle its increased demand for product or speed of replenishment. The seasonal nature of the business leads the Company to purchase, and requires it to carry, a significant amount of inventory prior to its peak selling season. As a result, the Company may be vulnerable to evolving home furnishing trends, changes in customer preferences, and pricing shifts, and may misjudge the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. The Company’s failure to anticipate, predict and respond in a timely manner to changing decorative home furnishing and gift trends could lead to lower sales and additional discounts and markdowns in an effort to clear merchandise, which could have a negative impact on merchandise margins and, in turn, the results of operations. Failure by the Company to identify and successfully implement strategic initiatives could have a negative impact on the Company. The Company’s strategies for long-term growth, strategic plans and capital allocation are dependent on the Company’s ability to identify and successfully implement those initiatives. If they are not properly identified, developed and successfully executed, the implementation of such initiatives may negatively impact the Company’s business operations and financial results. While the Company believes these disruptions would be short-term, their adverse impact could be material. The success of the business is dependent on factors affecting consumer spending that are not controllable by the Company. Consumer spending, including spending for the home and home-related furnishings, are dependent upon many factors beyond general economic conditions (both domestic and international), and include, among others, levels of employment, disposable consumer income, prevailing interest rates, changes in the housing market, consumer debt, costs of fuel and other energy sources, inflation, fears of recession or actual recession periods, war and fears of war, pandemics, inclement weather, tax rates and rate increases, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and global, national, regional and local political conditions (including the possibility of a governmental shut down), and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and 6 PIER 1 IMPORTS, INC. ï 2014 Form 10-K Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. security. Unfavorable changes in factors affecting discretionary spending could reduce demand for the Company’s products and therefore lower sales and negatively impact the business and its financial results. The Company outsources certain business processes to third-party vendors and has certain business relationships that subject the Company to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs. The Company outsources numerous business processes to third parties including gift card tracking and authorization, credit card authorization and processing, store scheduling and time and attendance, store maintenance services, maintenance and support of the Company’s website and e-Commerce platform, certain marketing services, insurance claims processing, customs filings and reporting, domestic and ocean freight including certain processing functions, shipment and delivery of customer orders including in-home delivery, certain merchandise compliance functions including testing, certain payroll processing and various tax filings, record keeping for certain employment benefits including retirement plans and the stock purchase plan, and third party vendor auditing. In addition, the Company also has business relationships with third parties to provide essential services such as the extension of credit to its customers and maintenance of the Pier 1 rewards credit card program. The Company makes a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of these services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services or the Company’s inability to arrange for alternative providers on favorable terms in a timely manner could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial results. An overall decline in the health of the United States economy and its impact on consumer confidence and spending could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. The recessions experienced by the United States in various years adversely affected the discretionary spending, savings and investments of United States consumers. The resulting deterioration in consumer confidence and spending during those recessionary periods resulted in consumers sacrificing purchases of discretionary items, including the Company’s merchandise, which negatively impacted the Company’s financial results during those years. Such recessions could occur again and could have a significant impact on the Company’s financial results. Failure to control merchandise returns could negatively impact the business and financial results. The Company has established a provision for estimated merchandise returns based upon historical experience and other known factors. If actual returns are greater than those projected by management, additional reductions of revenue could be recorded in the future. Also, to the extent that returned merchandise is damaged, the Company may not receive full retail value from the resale of the returned merchandise. Introductions of new merchandise, changes in merchandise mix, associate selling behavior, merchandise quality issues, changes to the Company’s return policy, e-Commerce return behavior, changes in consumer confidence, new delivery channels/methods or other competitive and general economic conditions may cause actual returns to exceed the provision for estimated merchandise returns. An increase in merchandise returns that exceeds the Company’s current provisions could negatively impact the business and financial results. A disruption in the operation of the domestic portion of the Company’s supply chain, including the e-Commerce website, could impact its ability to deliver merchandise to its stores and customers, which could impact its sales and results of operations. The Company maintains regional distribution centers in Maryland, Ohio, Texas, California, Georgia and Washington. At these distribution centers, merchandise is received, allocated, and shipped to the Company’s stores, customers and e-Commerce orders are fulfilled. Major catastrophic events such as natural disasters, fire or flooding, malfunction or disruption of the information systems, a disruption in communication services or power outages, or shipping interruptions could delay distribution of merchandise to the Company’s stores and customers. Such disruptions could have a negative impact on the Company’s sales and results of operations. Factors that may or may not be controllable by the Company may negatively affect the Company’s financial results. Increases in the Company’s costs that are beyond the Company’s control, including items such as increases in fuel and transportation costs, higher interest rates, increases in losses from damaged merchandise, inflation, litigation, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, higher costs of labor, labor disputes around the world, increases in the costs of insurance and healthcare, increases in postage and media costs, higher tax rates and complying with changes in laws and regulations, including accounting standards, may negatively impact the Company’s financial results. PIER 1 IMPORTS, INC. ï 2014 Form 10-K 7 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Failure to successfully manage and execute the Company’s marketing initiatives could have a negative impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. The success and growth of the Company is partially dependent on generating customer traffic in order to produce sales in its stores and through the Company’s e-Commerce website. Successful marketing efforts require the ability to obtain customer information and to reach customers through their desired mode of communication utilizing various media outlets. Media placement decisions are generally made months in advance of the scheduled release date. While gathering information about customers, the Company must consider the customers’ desire for privacy and the need to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The Company’s inability to obtain customer information, accurately predict and respect its customers’ preferences, utilize the desired modes of communication, or ensure availability of advertised products may negatively impact the business and operating results. Changes to estimates related to the Company’s property and equipment, or financial results that are lower than its current estimates at certain store locations, may cause the Company to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets, negatively affecting its financial results. The Company makes certain accounting estimates and projections with regards to individual store operations as well as overall Company performance in connection with its impairment analyses for long-lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. The projection of future cash flows used in this analysis requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from the Company’s estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, the Company’s financial results could be negatively affected. Risks Related to Profitability The Company’s success depends, in part, on its ability to operate in desirable locations at reasonable rental rates and to close underperforming stores at or before the conclusion of their lease terms. The profitability of the business is dependent on operating the current store base at a reasonable profit, opening and operating new stores at a reasonable profit, and identifying and closing underperforming stores. For a majority of the Company’s current store base, a large portion of a store’s operating expense is the cost associated with leasing the location. Management actively monitors individual store performance and attempts to negotiate favorable lease expenses to ensure stores can remain profitable or have the ability to rebound to a profitable state. Current locations may not continue to be desirable as demographics change, and the Company may choose to close an underperforming store before its lease expires and incur lease termination costs associated with that closing. The Company cannot give assurance that opening new stores or an increase in closing underperforming stores will result in greater profits. Failure to attract and retain an effective management team or changes in the cost or availability of a suitable workforce to manage and support the Company’s stores, distribution facilities and e-Commerce website could negatively affect the Company’s business. The Company’s success is dependent, in a large part, on being able to successfully attract, motivate and retain a qualified management team and associates. Sourcing qualified candidates to fill important positions within the Company, especially management, in the highly competitive retail environment may prove to be a challenge. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals could result in turnover in the home office, stores and distribution facilities, which could have a negative effect on the business. Management will continue to assess the Company’s compensation and benefit program in an effort to attract future qualified candidates and retain current experienced management team members. The Company does not believe that its compensation policies, principles, objectives and practices are structured to promote inappropriate risk taking by its executives nor inappropriate risk-taking by its employees whose behavior would be most affected by performance-based incentives. The Company believes that the focus of its overall compensation program encourages its employees to take a balanced approach that focuses on increasing and sustaining Pier 1 Imports’ profitability. 8 PIER 1 IMPORTS, INC. ï 2014 Form 10-K Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Occasionally the Company experiences union organizing activities in non-unionized distribution facilities. Similar activities could also occur in the stores. These types of activities may result in work slowdowns or stoppages and higher labor costs. Any increase in costs associated with labor organization at distribution facilities could result in higher costs to distribute inventory and could negatively impact merchandise margins. Failure to successfully manage the Company’s omni-channel operations could negatively affect the Company’s business. The Company successfully executed the launch of its e-Commerce website in the United States during fiscal 2013 and in fiscal 2014 the Company continued to implement its omni-channel strategy, ‘1 Pier 1’. Successful execution of the omni-channel initiatives depends on the Company’s ability to maintain uninterrupted availability of the Company’s website and supporting applications, adequate and accurate inventory levels, timely fulfillment of customer orders, accurate shipping of undamaged product and coordination of certain of those activities within the Company’s retail stores. In addition, the Company’s call center must maintain a high standard of customer care. Failure to successfully manage these processes may negatively impact sales, result in the loss of customers, and damage the Company’s reputation. The Company operates in a highly competitive retail environment with companies offering similar merchandise. If customers are lost to the Company’s competitors, sales could decline. The Company operates in the highly competitive specialty retail business competing with specialty sections of large department stores, home furnishing retailers, small specialty stores and mass merchandising discounters. Management believes that the Company is competing for sales on the basis of pricing and quality of products, constantly changing merchandise assortment, visual presentation of its merchandise and customer service. The Company experiences added short-term competition when other retailers liquidate merchandise for various reasons. If the Company is unable to maintain a competitive position, it could experience negative pressure on retail prices and loss of customers, which in turn could result in reduced merchandise margins and operating results. The Company’s business is subject to seasonal variations, with a significant portion of its sales and earnings occurring during two months of the year. Approximately 25% of the Company’s sales generally occur during the November-December holiday selling season. Severe weather or failure to predict consumer demand correctly during these months could result in lost sales or gross margin erosion if merchandise must be marked down significantly to clear inventory. The Company’s business may be harmed by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. Extreme or undesirable weather can negatively affect customer traffic in retail stores as well as customer shopping behavior. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, weather phenomena, and events causing infrastructure failures could negatively affect any of the Company’s 1 Pier 1 operations, distribution centers, administrative facilities, logistical infrastructures, or operations of its suppliers domestically and in foreign countries. Risks Associated with Dependence on Technology The Company is heavily dependent on various kinds of technology in the operation of its business. Failure of any critical software applications including software-as-a-service and “cloud” operations, technology infrastructure, telecommunications, data communications, data storage equipment, or networks could have a negative effect, including additional expense, on the Company’s ability to manage the merchandise supply chain, sell merchandise, accomplish payment functions, report financial data or manage labor and staffing. Although the Company maintains off-site data backups, a concentration of technology-related risk exists in the Company’s headquarters located in Fort Worth, Texas. PIER 1 IMPORTS, INC. ï 2014 Form 10-K 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of the Company’s customers and employees could expose the Company to litigation and/or regulatory action and damage the Company’s reputation. The Company receives and maintains certain personal information of its customers, vendors and employees. The collection and use of this information by the Company is regulated at the international, national, federal and other political subdivision levels, and is subject to certain contractual restrictions in third party contracts. Although the Company has implemented processes to collect and protect the integrity and security of personal information, there can be no assurance that this information will not be obtained by unauthorized persons, or collected or used inappropriately. If the security and information systems of the Company or of its internal or external business partners are compromised or its internal or external business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons, or collected or used inappropriately, it could negatively affect the Company’s reputation, as well as operations and financial results, and could result in litigation and/or regulatory action against the Company including the imposition of penalties and fines. In addition, a compromise of the Company’s systems could result in a disruption to management and require expanded resources to remediate, investigate, correct and upgrade systems. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, the Company will incur additional costs to remain in compliance. Failure to successfully implement new information technology systems and enhance existing systems could negatively impact the business and its financial results. As part of the Company’s growth plan, the Company is investing in new information technology systems and implementing modifications and upgrades to existing systems. These investments include replacing legacy systems, making changes to existing systems, building redundancies, acquiring new systems and hardware with updated functionality and “cloud”-based solutions such as software-as-a-service solutions and data storage. The Company is taking appropriate actions to ensure the successful implementation of these initiatives, including the testing of new systems and the transfer of existing data, with minimal disruptions to the business. However, there can be no assurance the Company has anticipated all potential risks. Failure to successfully implement these initiatives could negatively impact the business and its financial results. The Company’s business operations including the expansion of the Company’s e-Commerce website has inherent cybersecurity risks that may disrupt its business and negatively impact the Company’s financial results and reputation. The Company’s e-Commerce functionality has increased the Company’s exposure to cybersecurity risks. A compromise of its security systems could result in a service disruption, or customers’, employees’ or vendors’ personal information or the Company’s proprietary information being obtained by unauthorized users. Although the Company has implemented processes to mitigate the risks of security breaches and cyber incidents, there can be no assurance that such an attack will not occur. Any breach of the Company’s security could result in violation of privacy laws, potential litigation or regulatory action, and a loss of confidence in its security measures, all of which could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results and its reputation. Failure to maintain positive brand perception and recognition could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results and reputation. Maintaining a good reputation is critical to the Company’s business. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has increased the risk that the Company’s reputation could be negatively impacted in a short amount of time. If the Company is unable to quickly and effectively respond to such incidents, it may suffer declines in customer loyalty and traffic, vendor relationship issues, diversion of management’s time to respond and other adverse effects, all of which could negatively impact the Company’s financial results and its reputation. Regulatory Risks The Company is subject to laws and regulatory requirements in many jurisdictions. Changes in these laws and requirements, or interpretations of them, may result in additional costs to the Company, including the costs of compliance as well as potential penalties and fines for non-compliance. Legislation on a local, regional, state, national or global level has the potential to have a negative effect on the Company’s profitability or ability to operate its business. Compliance with certain legislation carries with it significant costs. The Company is subject to oversight by many governmental and quasi-governmental agencies in the course of operating its business because of 10 PIER 1 IMPORTS, INC. ï 2014 Form 10-K Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. its numerous locations, large number of employees, contact with consumers and importation and exportation of product. In addition, the Company is subject to regulations regarding consumer product quality and safety standards. Complying with regulations may cause the Company to incur significant expenses, including the costs associated with periodic audits. Failure to comply may also result in additional costs in the form of penalties and fines. The Company operates in many taxing jurisdictions, including foreign countries. In most of these jurisdictions, the Company is required to collect state and local sales taxes at the point of sale and remit them to the appropriate taxing authority. The Company is also subject to income taxes, excise taxes, franchise taxes, payroll taxes and other special taxes. The Company is also required to maintain various kinds of business and commercial licenses to operate its stores and other facilities. Rates of taxation are beyond the Company’s control, and increases in such rates or taxation methods and rules could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial results. Failure to comply with laws concerning the collection and remittance of taxes and with licensing requirements could also subject the Company to financial penalties and fines or business interruptions. Risks Associated with International Trade As an importer and retailer of imported merchandise, the Company is subject to certain risks that typically do not affect retailers of domestically produced merchandise. The Company must order merchandise well in advance of delivery and generally takes title to the merchandise at the time it is loaded for transport to designated U.S. destinations. Global political unrest, war, threats of war, terrorist acts or threats, especially threats to foreign and U.S. ports and piracy, disruption in the operation of the international portion of the Company’s supply chain, labor unrest or natural disasters could adversely affect the Company’s ability to import merchandise from certain countries. Although the Company pays for the vast majority of its merchandise in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the relative value of the U.S. dollar, restrictions on the convertibility of the dollar and other currencies, duties, preferential trade agreements including general system of preferences, taxes and other charges on imports, rising labor costs and cost of living in foreign countries, dock strikes, worker strikes, import quota systems and other restrictions sometimes placed on foreign trade can affect the price, delivery and availability of imported merchandise as well as exports to the Company’s stores in other countries. The inability to import merchandise from China and other countries, unavailability of adequate shipping capacity at reasonable rates, or the imposition of significant tariffs could have a negative effect on the financial results of the Company. Ocean carriage and freight costs contribute a substantial amount to the cost of imported merchandise. Monitoring of foreign vendors’ compliance with applicable laws and Company standards, including quality and safety standards and social compliance issues, is more difficult than monitoring of domestic vendors. Governmental agencies have the authority to enforce trade agreements, resolve trade disputes and control market access to goods and services. Governments may also impose trade sanctions on foreign countries that are found to violate trade agreements or maintain laws or practices that are unjustifiable and restrict commerce. In these situations, governments may increase duties on imports from one or more foreign countries. The Company could be negatively affected by the imposition of trade sanctions. The governments of the countries in which the Company does business maintain a variety of additional trade laws under which the Company’s ability to import may be affected from time to time, including antidumping laws, countervailing duty laws, safeguards laws, and laws designed to protect intellectual property rights. Although the Company may not be directly involved in a particular trade dispute under any of these laws, its ability to import, or the terms and conditions under which it can continue to import, may be affected by the outcome of such disputes. The Company imports merchandise from countries around the world and as a result may be affected from time to time by antidumping petitions alleging that foreign manufacturers are selling their own products at prices that are less than the prices that they charge in their home country market or in third country markets or at less than their cost of production. Such petitions, if successful, could significantly increase import duties on those products. In that event, the Company might decide to pay the increased duties, thereby reducing gross profits or increasing the price to consumers of the affected products. Alternatively, the Company might decide to source the product or a similar product from a different country not subject to increased duties or else discontinue the importation and sale of the product. Dispute resolution processes in recent years have been utilized to resolve disputes regarding market access between the European Union, China, the United States and other countries. In some instances, these trade disputes can lead to threats by countries of sanctions against each other, which can include import prohibitions and increased duty rates on imported items. The Company considers any agreement that reduces tariff and non-tariff barriers in international trade to be beneficial to its business. Any type of sanction on imports is likely to increase the Company’s import costs or limit the availability of merchandise purchased from sanctioned countries. In that case, the Company may be required to seek similar merchandise from other countries on terms that could be materially less favorable. PIER 1 IMPORTS, INC. ï 2014 Form 10-K 11 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Relating to Liquidity A disruption in the global credit and equity markets could negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In the future, the Company could become dependent on the availability of adequate capital to fund its operations. Disruption in the global credit and equity markets and future disruptions in the financial markets could negatively affect the Company’s ability to enter into new financing agreements or obtain funding through the sale of Company securities. A decline in economic conditions could also result in difficulties for financial institutions and other parties that the Company does business with, which could potentially affect the Company’s ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under the Company’s contractual agreements. The inability of the Company to obtain financing as needed on acceptable terms to fund its operations may have a negative impact on the Company’s business and financial results. Insufficient cash flows from operations could result in the substantial utilization of the Company’s secured revolving credit facility or similar financing, which may limit the Company’s ability to conduct certain activities. The Company maintains a secured revolving credit facility to enable it to issue merchandise and special purpose standby letters of credit as well as to fund working capital requirements. Borrowings under the secured revolving credit facility are subject to a borrowing base calculation consisting of a percentage of certain eligible assets of the Company and are subject to advance rates and commercially reasonable reserves. Substantial utilization of the available borrowing base will result in various restrictions on the Company, including restrictions on the ability of the Company to repurchase its common stock or pay dividends and an increase in the lender’s control over the Company’s cash accounts. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s secured revolving credit facility. The Company expects to close a new $200 million senior secured term loan facility on or about April 30, 2014. Proceeds from the transaction will be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital needs, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends permitted under the agreement. The senior secured term loan facility will increase the Company’s interest expense and financial leverage. The senior secured term loan facility is expected to contain a number of affirmative and restrictive covenants that may also limit the Company’s actions. Significant decreases in cash flows from operations could result in the Company borrowing increased amounts under its credit facilities to fund operational needs and increased utilization of letters of credit. These could result in the Company being subject to the above restrictions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 12 PIER 1 IMPORTS, INC. ï 2014 Form 10-K Table of Contents ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. 