Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following information describes certain significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company's business that should be carefully considered, along with other information contained elsewhere in this report and in other filings, when making an investment decision with respect to the Company. If one or more of these risks actually occurs, the impact on the Company's operations, financial position, or liquidity could be material and the business could be harmed substantially. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes are immaterial may also adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, future results of operations and cash flow. In addition to the risks discussed below, the Company is also subject to certain market risks as described in Item 7A to this report. Strategic Risks and Strategy Execution Risks The deterioration of the United States economy and its impact on consumer confidence and spending could continue for an unspecified period of time, and could further adversely impact the Company's results of operations. The United States economy remains in a deep recession and is suffering from a near collapse of the credit and financial markets. The market value of domestic and foreign companies has declined significantly since August 2008, which has adversely affected the savings and investments of United States consumers. Consumer confidence and spending have deteriorated significantly as a result of this current market turmoil. The difficult economic situation faced in the United States and other countries may not end in the near future and consumer confidence and spending could remain depressed and possibly deteriorate even further. During times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to sacrifice purchases of discretionary items, including the Company's merchandise, which could continue to adversely impact the Company's financial results and turnaround plan. The success of the business is dependent on factors affecting consumer spending that are not controllable by the Company. Consumer spending, including spending for the home and home-related furnishings, are further dependent upon factors besides general economic conditions and include, but are not limited to, levels of employment, disposable consumer income, prevailing interest rates, consumer debt, costs of fuel, inflation, recession and fears of recession, war and fears of war, inclement weather, tax rates and rate increases, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security. Unfavorable changes in factors affecting discretionary 7 Table of Contents spending could reduce demand for the Company's products and therefore lower sales and negatively impact the business and its operating results. The Company's turnaround strategy may cause a disruption in operations and may not be successful. The Company began implementing a strategy during fiscal 2008 for returning the Company to profitability. The turnaround strategy may negatively impact the Company's operations, which could include disruptions from the realignment of operational functions within the home office and distribution centers, changes in the store administration reporting structure, and changes in the Company's product assortments or marketing strategies. These changes could adversely affect the Company's business operations and financial results. While the Company believes any disruptions would be short-term, it is unknown whether the impact would be material. In addition, if the Company's turnaround strategy is not successful, takes longer than initially projected, or is not executed effectively, the Company's business operations and financial results could be adversely affected. The Company must be able to anticipate, identify and respond to changing trends and customer preferences for home furnishings. The success of the Company's specialty retail business depends largely upon its ability to predict trends in home furnishings consistently and to provide merchandise that satisfies consumer demand in a timely manner. Consumer preferences often change and may not be reasonably predicted. A majority of the Company's merchandise is manufactured, purchased and imported from countries around the world and may be ordered well in advance of the applicable selling season. Extended lead times may make it difficult to respond rapidly to changes in consumer demand and as a result, the Company may be unable to react quickly and source needed merchandise. In addition, the Company's vendors may not have the ability to handle its increased demand for product. The seasonal nature of the business leads the Company to purchase and requires it to carry a significant amount of inventory prior to its peak selling season. As a result, the Company may be vulnerable to evolving home furnishing trends, changes in customer preferences, and pricing shifts, and may misjudge the timing and selection of merchandise purchases. The Company's failure to anticipate, predict and respond in a timely manner to changing home furnishing trends could lead to lower sales and additional discounts and markdowns in an effort to clear merchandise, which could have a negative impact on merchandise margins and in turn the results of operations. Failure to control merchandise returns could negatively impact the business. The Company has established a provision for estimated merchandise returns based upon historical experience and other known factors. If actual returns are greater than those projected by management, additional reductions of revenue could be recorded in the future. Also, to the extent that returned merchandise is damaged, the Company may not receive full retail value from the resale of the returned merchandise. Introductions of new merchandise, changes in merchandise mix, merchandise quality issues, changes in consumer confidence, or other competitive and general economic conditions may cause actual returns to exceed the provision for estimated merchandise returns. An increase in merchandise returns that exceeds the Company's current provisions could negatively impact the business and operating results. A disruption in the operation of the domestic portion of the Company's supply chain could impact its ability to deliver merchandise to its stores and customers, which could impact its sales and results of operations. The Company maintains regional distribution centers in Maryland, Illinois, Ohio, Texas, California, Georgia and Washington. At these distribution centers, merchandise is received, allocated, and shipped to the Company's stores. Major catastrophic events such as fire or flooding, malfunction or disruption 8 Table of Contents of the information systems, or shipping problems could result in distribution delays of merchandise to the Company's stores and customers. Such disruptions could have a negative impact on the Company's sales and results of operations. Factors that may or may not be controllable by the Company may adversely affect the Company's financial performance. Increases in the Company's expenses that are beyond the Company's control including items such as increases in fuel and transportation costs, higher interest rates, increases in losses from damaged merchandise, inflation, fluctuations in foreign currency rates, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, increases in postage and media costs, higher tax rates and changes in laws and regulations, including accounting standards, may negatively impact the Company's operating results. Failure to successfully manage and execute the Company's marketing initiatives could have a negative impact on the business. The success and growth of the Company is partially dependent on generating customer traffic in order to gain sales momentum in its stores. Successful marketing efforts require the ability to reach customers through their desired mode of communication utilizing various media outlets. Media placement decisions are generally made months in advance of the scheduled release date. The Company's inability to accurately predict its consumers' preferences or to utilize the desired mode of communication may negatively impact the business and operating results. Changes to estimates related to the Company's property and equipment, or operating results that are lower than its current estimates at certain store locations, may cause the Company to incur impairment charges on certain long-lived assets. The Company makes certain estimates and projections with regards to individual store operations as well as overall Company performance in connection with its impairment analyses for long-lived assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." An impairment charge is required when the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value or undiscounted future cash flows of the asset. The projection of future cash flows used in this analysis requires the use of judgment and a number of estimates and projections of future operating results. If actual results differ from the Company's estimates, additional charges for asset impairments may be required in the future. If impairment charges are significant, the Company's results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Store Profitability The Company's success depends, in part, on its ability to operate in desirable locations at reasonable rental rates and to close underperforming stores at or before the conclusion of their lease terms. The profitability of the business is dependent on operating the current store base at a reasonable profit, opening and operating new stores at a reasonable profit, and identifying and closing underperforming stores. For a majority of the Company's current store base, a large portion of a stores' operating expense is the cost associated with leasing the location. Management actively monitors individual store performance and attempts to negotiate rent reductions to ensure stores can remain profitable or have the ability to rebound to a profitable state. Current locations may not continue to be desirable as demographics change, and the Company may choose to close an underperforming store before its lease expires and incur lease termination costs associated with that closing. The Company cannot give assurance that opening new stores or an increase in closings will result in greater profits. 9 Table of Contents Failure to attract and retain an effective management team or changes in the costs or availability of a suitable workforce to manage and support the Company's stores and distribution facilities could adversely affect the business. The Company's success is dependent, in a large part, on being able to successfully attract, motivate and retain a qualified management team and employees. Sourcing qualified candidates to fill important positions within the Company, especially management, in the highly competitive retail environment may prove to be a challenge. The inability to recruit and retain such individuals could result in turnover in the home office, stores and the distribution facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the business. Management will continue to assess the Company's compensation and benefit structure in an effort to attract future qualified candidates or retain current experienced management team members. Occasionally the Company experiences union organizing activities in its non-unionized distribution facilities. These types of activities may result in work slowdowns or stoppages and higher labor costs. Any increase in costs associated with labor organization at the distribution facilities could result in higher costs to distribute inventory and could negatively impact merchandise margins. The Company operates in a highly competitive retail environment with companies offering similar merchandise, and if customers are lost to the Company's competitors, sales could decline. The Company's retail locations operate in the highly competitive specialty retail business competing with specialty sections of large department stores, home furnishing stores, small specialty stores and mass merchandising discounters. Management believes that as it is competing for sales, it does so on the basis of pricing and quality of products, constantly changing merchandise assortment, visual presentation of its merchandise and customer service. The Company could also experience added short-term competition when other retailers are liquidating merchandise for various reasons. If the Company is unable to maintain a competitive position, it could experience negative pressure on retail prices and loss of customers, which in turn could result in reduced merchandise margins and operating results. The Company's business is subject to seasonal variations, with a significant portion of its sales and earnings occurring during two months of the year. Approximately 25% of the Company's sales generally occur during the November-December holiday selling season. Failure to predict consumer demand correctly during these months could result in lost sales or gross margin erosion if merchandise must be marked down significantly to clear inventory. The Company's business may be harmed by adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. Extreme or undesirable weather can affect customer traffic in retail stores as well as customer shopping behavior. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, weather phenomena, and events causing infrastructure failures could adversely affect any of the Company's retail locations, distribution centers, administrative facilities, ports, or locations of its suppliers domestically and in foreign countries. Risks Associated with Dependence on Technology The Company is heavily dependent on various kinds of technology in the operation of its business. Failure of any critical software applications, technology infrastructure, telecommunications, data communications, or networks could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to manage the merchandise supply chain, sell merchandise, accomplish payment functions or report financial data. Although the Company maintains off-site data backups, a concentration of technology related risk does exist in certain locations. 10 Table of Contents The Company outsources certain business processes to third-party vendors that subject the Company to risks, including disruptions in business and increased costs. Some business processes that are dependent on technology are outsourced to third parties. Such processes include gift card tracking and authorization, credit card authorization and processing, insurance claims processing, U.S. customs filings and reporting, certain payroll processing and tax filings, and record keeping for retirement plans. The Company makes a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services are observing proper internal control practices, such as redundant processing facilities; however, there are no guarantees that failures will not occur. Failure of third parties to provide adequate services could have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial condition, or ability to accomplish its financial and management reporting. Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of the Company's customers and employees could expose the Company to litigation and damage the Company's reputation. The Company receives and maintains certain personal information about its customers and employees. The use of this information by the Company is regulated at the international, federal and state levels, as well as by certain third party contracts. If the Company's security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect the Company's reputation, as well as operations, results of operations and financial condition, and could result in litigation against the Company or the imposition of penalties. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, the Company may incur additional costs to ensure it remains in compliance. Regulatory Risks The Company is subject to laws and regulatory requirements in many jurisdictions. Changes in these laws and requirements may result in additional costs to the Company, including the costs of compliance as well as potential penalties for non-compliance. The Company operates in many local, state, and federal taxing jurisdictions, including foreign countries. In most of these jurisdictions, the Company is required to collect state and local sales taxes at the point of sale and remit them to the appropriate taxing authority. The Company is also subject to income taxes, excise taxes, franchise taxes, payroll taxes and other special taxes. The Company is also required to maintain various kinds of business and commercial licenses to operate its stores and other facilities. Rates of taxation are beyond the Company's control, and increases in such rates or taxation methods and rules could have a material impact on the Company's profitability. Failure to comply with laws concerning the collection and remittance of taxes and with licensing requirements could also subject the Company to financial penalties or business interruptions. Local, state, and federal legislation also has a potential material effect on the Company's profitability or ability to operate its business. Compliance with certain legislation carries with it significant costs. The Company is subject to oversight by many governmental agencies in the course of operating its business because of its numerous locations, large number of employees, contact with consumers and importation and exportation of product. Complying with regulations may cause the Company to incur significant expenses, including the costs associated with periodic audits. Failure to comply may also cause additional costs in the form of penalties. 11 Table of Contents Risks Associated with International Trade As a retailer of imported merchandise, the Company is subject to certain risks that typically do not affect retailers of domestically produced merchandise. The Company may order merchandise well in advance of delivery and generally takes title to the merchandise at the time it is loaded for transport to designated U.S. destinations. Global political unrest, war, threats of war, terrorist acts or threats, especially threats to foreign and U.S. ports, could affect the Company's ability to import merchandise from certain countries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the relative value of the U.S. dollar, restrictions on the convertibility of the dollar and other currencies, duties, taxes and other charges on imports, dock strikes, import quota systems and other restrictions sometimes placed on foreign trade can affect the price, delivery and availability of imported merchandise as well as exports to the Company's stores in other countries. The inability to import merchandise from China and other countries, unavailability of adequate shipping capacity at reasonable rates, or the imposition of significant tariffs could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the Company. Freight costs contribute a substantial amount to the cost of imported merchandise. Monitoring of foreign vendors' compliance with U.S. laws and Company standards, including quality and safety standards, is more difficult than monitoring of domestic vendors. The United States government has the authority to enforce trade agreements, resolve trade disputes, and open foreign markets to U.S. goods and services. The United States government may also impose trade sanctions on foreign countries that are deemed to violate trade agreements or maintain laws or practices that are unjustifiable and restrict U.S. commerce. In these situations, the United States government may increase duties on imports into the United States from one or more foreign countries. In this event, the Company could be adversely affected by the imposition of trade sanctions. In addition, the United States maintains in effect a variety of additional international trade laws under which the Company's ability to import may be affected from time to time, including, but not limited to, the antidumping law, the countervailing duty law, the safeguards law, and laws designed to protect intellectual property rights. Although the Company may not be directly involved in a particular trade dispute under any of these laws, its ability to import, or the terms and conditions under which it can continue to import, may be affected by the outcome of such disputes. In particular, because the Company imports merchandise from countries around the world, the Company may be affected from time to time by antidumping petitions filed with the United States Commerce Department and International Trade Commission by U.S. producers of competing products alleging that foreign manufacturers are selling their own products at prices in the United States that are less than the prices that they charge in their home country market or in third country markets or at less than their cost of production. Such petitions, if successful, could significantly increase the United States import duties on those products. In that event, the Company might possibly decide to pay the increased duties, thereby possibly increasing the Company's price to consumers. Alternatively, the Company might decide to source the product or a similar product from a different country not subject to increased duties or else discontinue the importation and sale of the product. In recent years, dispute resolution processes have been utilized to resolve disputes regarding market access between the European Union, China, the United States and other countries. In some instances, these trade disputes can lead to threats by countries of sanctions against each other, which can include import prohibitions and increased duty rates on imported items. The Company considers any agreement that reduces tariff and non-tariff barriers in international trade to be beneficial to its business. Any type of sanction on imports is likely to increase the Company's import costs or limit the availability of merchandise purchased from sanctioned countries. In that case, the Company may be required to seek similar merchandise from other countries. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Liquidity The disruption in the global credit and equity markets could adversely impact the Company's ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or could increase the cost of obtaining credit. From fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2009, the Company has incurred net losses and had negative cash flows from operations. In the future, the Company may become dependent on the availability of adequate capital to fund its operations, carry out its turnaround strategy, or refinance existing indebtedness if necessary. Disruption in the global credit and equity markets and future disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect the Company's ability to enter into new financing agreements, refinance the Company's current indebtedness if necessary, or obtain funding through the issuance of the Company's securities. A continued decline in economic conditions could also result in continued difficulties for financial institutions and other parties that the Company does business with, which could potentially affect the Company's ability to access financing under existing arrangements or to otherwise recover amounts as they become due under the Company's contractual agreements. The inability of the Company to obtain financing as needed, on acceptable terms in order to finance its operations may have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Insufficient cash flows from operations could result in the substantial utilization of the Company's secured credit facility, which may impose certain financial covenants. The Company maintains a secured credit facility to enable it to issue merchandise and special purpose standby letters of credit as well as to occasionally fund working capital requirements. Borrowings under the credit facility are subject to a borrowing base calculation consisting of a percentage of certain eligible assets of the Company and is subject to advance rates and commercially reasonable reserves. Substantial utilization of the availability under the borrowing base will result in various restrictions on the Company including: restricted ability of the Company to repurchase its common stock or pay dividends, dominion over the Company's cash accounts, and compliance with a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. The minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, assuming availability below the required minimum, would not have been met during fiscal 2009. See Note 5 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's secured credit facility. Significant decreases in cash flow from operations and investing could result in the Company's borrowing increased amounts under the credit facility to fund operational needs. Increases in utilization of letters of credit and/or increased cash borrowings could result in the Company being subject to these limitations. Risks Relating to Common Stock The Company must remain in compliance with the New York Stock Exchange's requirements for the continued listing of its common stock on the exchange. The Company's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Continued listing on the NYSE is contingent upon the Company's ability to meet certain listing criteria including, among others, an average closing share price over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of at least $1.00. On May 4, 2009, the Company received notice from NYSE Regulation, Inc. ("NYSE Regulation") that the Company was in compliance with this requirement. Previously on December 15, 2008, the Company had received notice from NYSE Regulation that the Company was not in compliance with this requirement. The Company notified NYSE Regulation within the required ten business days that it intended to cure the deficiency and that its Board of Directors had met and was considering all strategic measures to cure the non-compliance with the listing standard. Another criteria for continued listing on the NYSE is an average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of at least $25 million. The NYSE will promptly initiate suspension 13 Table of Contents and delisting procedures with respect to a company if it is not in compliance with this standard. As of May 1, 2009, the Company's average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period was greater than $25 million. On February 26, 2009, the Company received notice from the NYSE that it had suspended its $1.00 minimum price requirement on a temporary basis, initially through June 30, 2009. On January 23, 2009, the NYSE temporarily changed to $15 million from $25 million the consecutive 30 trading-day average global market capitalization required of listed issues. On February 26, 2009, this temporary change was extended by the NYSE until June 30, 2009. Failure to maintain the NYSE listing could negatively impact the Company by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire the Company's stock, which could limit the ability to raise capital by issuing additional shares in the future. It could also negatively impact the perception of the Company's financial situation which may cause some vendors, creditors and other business partners to impose less favorable terms on the Company or cease to conduct business with the Company. In addition, the perceived value of equity incentive awards granted to employees could deteriorate significantly, thereby negating the goal of retaining key employees with equity incentive awards. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 14 Table of Contents 