ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report. The items described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We operate in an industry that is currently experiencing a prolonged and significant downturn Since mid-1999, the manufactured housing industry has experienced a prolonged and significant downturn. This downturn has resulted in part from the fact that, beginning in 1999, consumer lenders in the sector began to tighten underwriting standards and curtail credit availability in response to higher than anticipated rates of loan defaults and significant losses upon the repossession and resale of manufactured homes securing defaulted loans. In more recent years, the industry’s downturn was exacerbated by the aggressive financing methods utilized by developers and marketers of standard site-built homes which had the effect of diverting potential manufactured housing customers to more expensive site-built homes, the global credit crisis, and general deterioration of economic conditions. These factors have resulted in declining wholesale shipments and excess manufacturing and retail locations. 8 Table of Contents As a result of the foregoing factors, based on industry data as of the end of 2009, the number of active industry manufacturing facilities has dropped by 167 plants, representing a 52% reduction since the end of 1999. The availability of consumer financing for the purchase of manufactured homes continues to be constrained, as discussed below. Although it is difficult to predict future industry conditions, the current market environment tends to indicate that a sustained recovery in the manufactured housing industry is unlikely to occur in the near term. If current industry conditions continue or get materially worse, we may be required to take steps in an attempt to mitigate the effect of unfavorable industry conditions, such as the closure of facilities or consolidation of existing operations. These steps could impair our ability to conduct our business in a manner consistent with past practice and could make it more difficult for us to expand our operations if and when industry conditions improve. Furthermore, some of these steps could lead to fixed asset impairment charges and goodwill impairment charges. Tightened credit standards and curtailed lending activity by home-only lenders have contributed to a constrained consumer financing market Consumers who buy our manufactured homes have historically secured retail financing from third-party lenders. The availability, terms and costs of retail financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond our control. A consumer seeking to finance the purchase of a manufactured home without land will generally pay a higher interest rate and have a shorter loan maturity than a consumer seeking to finance the purchase of land and the home. In addition, home-only financing is at times more difficult to obtain than financing for site-built homes. Since 1999, home-only lenders have tightened the credit underwriting standards and increased interest rates for loans to purchase manufactured homes, which have reduced lending volumes which has negatively impacted our sales. In addition, most of the national lenders who have historically provided home-only loans have exited this sector of the industry. Conseco Finance Corp. (“Conseco Finance”) was historically one of the largest originators of home-only loans in the manufactured housing industry. In December 2002, Conseco Inc., the parent company of Conseco Finance, filed for bankruptcy protection and ceased its lending activities. In May 2004, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A., the lender with the largest loan origination volume in the home-only financing market at that time, announced it was ceasing its manufactured housing lending activities. In March 2008, Origen Financial, Inc. (“Origen”) announced that it was suspending originations of manufactured home loans as a result of unfavorable conditions in the secondary market for its loans. Another major lender, 21st Mortgage Corporation, citing unreliable and inadequate sources of funding, announced in January 2009 that it was significantly curtailing its retail lending program. Remaining retail lenders such as Triad Financial Services, Inc. (“Triad”), U.S. Bank, and CU Factory Built Lending have tightened their loan underwriting standards. If other lenders do not absorb the volume of loans previously made by these lenders, we could experience further retail and manufacturing sales declines. The availability of wholesale financing for industry retailers is limited due to a reduced number of floor plan lenders and reduced lending limits Manufactured housing retailers generally finance their inventory purchases with wholesale floor plan financing provided by lending institutions. The availability of wholesale financing is significantly affected by the number of floor plan lenders and their lending limits. During the past seven years, a substantial number of wholesale lenders have exited the industry or curtailed their floor plan operations. Conseco Finance was historically the largest floor plan lender, previously providing about 25% of the industry’s wholesale financing. Conseco Finance discontinued approving and funding new floor plan loan requests in April 2002 and filed for bankruptcy protection in December 2002. With Conseco Finance’s exit, Deutsche Financial Services was the largest remaining floor plan lender, providing approximately 20% of the industry’s wholesale financing. Deutsche Financial Services discontinued approving and funding new floor plan loan requests in November 2002 and proceeded to liquidate its existing floor plan receivables. In recent years, the Company’s independent retailers have relied primarily on GE Commercial Distribution Finance, Textron Financial Corporation and 21st Mortgage Corporation, national lending institutions that have specialized in providing wholesale floor plan financing to manufactured housing retailers. As a result of the current credit crisis, in the last half of 2008, each of these remaining national floor plan lenders substantially curtailed their lending activities, and Textron Financial Corporation announced its exit from the business. We are concerned that floor plan financing providers could further reduce their levels of floor plan lending. Reduced availability of floor plan lending negatively affects the inventory levels of our independent retailers, the number of retail sales center locations and related wholesale demand, and adversely affects the availability of and our access to capital on an ongoing basis. Our operating results could be affected by market forces and declining housing demand As a participant in the homebuilding industry, we are subject to market forces beyond our control. These market forces include employment and employment growth, interest rates, consumer confidence, land availability and development costs, apartment vacancy levels, and the health of the general economy. Unfavorable changes in any of the above factors or other issues could have an adverse effect on our sales and earnings. 9 Table of Contents We have incurred net losses in current and certain prior periods and there can be no assurance that we will generate income in the future Although we generated income from continuing operations during the previous eight fiscal years, we have incurred net losses in the current fiscal year and in certain other prior years. Net losses in these years were attributable in substantial part to the downturn affecting the manufactured housing industry, which is discussed in detail below. The likelihood that we will generate net income in the future must be considered in light of the difficulties facing the manufactured housing industry as a whole, economic conditions, the competitive environment in which we operate and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report. There can be no assurance that we will generate net income in the future. A write-off of all or part of our goodwill could adversely affect our operating results and net worth As of March 31, 2010, 29% of our total assets consisted of goodwill, all of which is attributable to our manufacturing operations. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (“FASB ASC”) 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (“ASC 350”), we review goodwill at least annually for impairment by reporting unit and record an impairment charge if the implied fair value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, is less than its carrying value. If goodwill has become impaired, we charge the impairment as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurred. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Our goodwill could be impaired if developments affecting our manufacturing operations or the markets in which we produce manufactured homes lead us to conclude that the cash flows we expect to derive from our manufacturing operations will be substantially reduced. A write off of all or part of our goodwill could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The cyclical and seasonal nature of the manufactured housing industry causes our revenues and operating results to fluctuate, and we expect this cyclicality and seasonality to continue in the future The manufactured housing industry is highly cyclical and seasonal and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors including the availability of consumer financing for homebuyers, the availability of wholesale financing for retailers, seasonality of demand, consumer confidence, interest rates, demographic and employment trends, income levels, housing demand, general economic conditions, including inflation and recessions, and the availability of suitable home sites. As a result of the foregoing economic, demographic and other factors, our revenues and operating results fluctuate, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. Moreover, we have and may continue to experience operating losses during cyclical downturns in the manufactured housing market. Our liquidity and ability to raise capital may be limited We may need to obtain debt or additional equity financing in the future. The type, timing and terms of the financing selected by us will depend on, among other things, our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and prevailing conditions in the financial markets. There can be no assurance that any of these sources will be available to us at any time or that they will be available on satisfactory terms. We have contingent repurchase obligations related to wholesale financing provided to industry retailers In accordance with customary business practice in the manufactured housing industry, we have entered into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions and other credit sources who provide floor plan financing to industry retailers, which provide that we will be obligated, under certain circumstances, to repurchase homes sold to retailers in the event of a default by a retailer in its obligation to such credit sources. Under these agreements, we have agreed to repurchase homes at declining prices over the term of the agreement (which in most cases is 18 to 36 months). The maximum amount of our contingent obligations under such repurchase agreements was approximately $12.7 million as of March 31, 2010, without reduction for the resale value of the homes. We may be required to honor contingent repurchase obligations in the future and may incur additional expense as a consequence of these repurchase agreements. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive, and competition may increase the adverse effects of industry conditions The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive. Competition at both the manufacturing and retail levels is based upon several factors, including price, product features, reputation for service and quality, merchandising, terms of retailer promotional programs and the terms of retail customer financing. Numerous companies produce manufactured homes in our markets. In addition, our homes compete with repossessed homes that are offered for sale in our markets. Certain of our manufacturing competitors also have their own retail distribution systems and consumer finance and insurance operations. The ability to offer consumer finance and insurance products may provide some competitors with an advantage. In addition, there are many independent manufactured housing retail locations in most areas where we have retail operations. We believe that where wholesale floor plan financing is available, it is relatively easy for new retailers to enter into our markets as competitors. In addition, our products compete with other forms of low to moderate-cost housing, including new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. If we are unable to compete effectively in this environment, our retail and wholesale sales could be reduced. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish or maintain relationships with independent retailers who sell our homes, our sales could decline During fiscal year 2010, approximately 97% of our wholesale sales of manufactured homes were to independent retail locations. As is common in the industry, independent retailers may also sell homes produced by competing manufacturers. We may not be able to establish relationships with new independent retailers or maintain good relationships with independent retailers that sell our homes. Even if we do establish and maintain relationships with independent retailers, these retailers are not obligated to sell our homes exclusively, and may choose to sell our competitors’ homes instead. The independent retailers with whom we have relationships can cancel these relationships on short notice. In addition, these retailers may not remain financially solvent, as they are subject to industry, economic, demographic and seasonal trends similar to those faced by us. If we do not establish and maintain relationships with solvent independent retailers in one or more of our markets, sales in those markets could decline. Our results of operations can be adversely affected by labor shortages and the pricing and availability of raw materials The homebuilding industry has from time to time experienced labor shortages and other labor related issues. A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available to us and our subcontractors in one or more of our markets including high employment levels, construction market conditions and government regulation which include laws and regulations related to workers’ health and safety, wage and hour practices and immigration. An overall labor shortage or a lack of skilled labor could cause significant increases in costs or delays in construction of homes which could have a material adverse effect upon our sales and results of operations. Our results of operations can be affected by the pricing and availability of raw materials. Although we attempt to increase the sales prices of our homes in response to higher materials costs, such increases typically lag behind the escalation of materials costs. Sudden increases in price and lack of availability of raw materials can be caused by natural disaster or other market forces, as has occurred in recent years. Although we have not experienced any production halts, severe or prolonged shortages of some of our most important building materials, which include wood and wood products, gypsum wallboard, steel, insulation, and other petroleum-based products, have occurred. There can be no assurance that sufficient supplies of these and other raw materials will continue to be available to us. If the manufactured housing industry is not able to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our business could be adversely affected Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, property owners often have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, which we believe has restricted the growth of the industry. Manufactured homes may not achieve widespread acceptance and localities may not adopt zoning ordinances permitting the development of manufactured home communities. If the manufactured housing industry is unable to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The loss of any of our executive officers could reduce our ability to execute our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our executive officers, particularly Joseph H. Stegmayer, our Chief Executive Officer, and Daniel L. Urness, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have no key man life insurance for our executive officers. Certain provisions of our organizational documents could delay or make more difficult a change in control of our Company Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change of control of our Company, and may have the effect of entrenching our current management or possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws authorize blank series preferred stock, establish a staggered board of directors and impose certain procedural and other requirements for stockholder proposals. Furthermore, the fact that income taxes could be imposed as a result of ownership changes occurring in conjunction with a distribution may have the effect of delaying or making more difficult certain transactions involving a change of control of our Company. 11 Table of Contents Volatility of Stock Price The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the perceived prospects of our business and the manufactured housing industry as a whole; differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; changes affecting the availability of financing in the wholesale and consumer lending markets; actions or announcements by competitors; changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; and changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition, stock markets generally experience significant price and volume volatility from time to time which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our performance. Deterioration in economic conditions in general and continued turmoil in the credit markets could reduce our earnings and financial condition Deterioration in global economic conditions and continued turmoil in the credit markets could have a negative impact on our business. Among other things, unfavorable changes in employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence and income, and interest rates may further reduce demand for our products, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Unprecedented contraction in the credit markets and the financial services industry have occurred recently, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or consolidation of various financial institutions and extraordinary intervention from the federal government. These factors could have an adverse affect on the availability of financing to our customers, causing our revenues to decline. We may not be able to successfully integrate Fleetwood Homes and any future acquisition or attain the anticipated benefits and the acquisition of Fleetwood Homes and other future acquisitions may adversely impact the Company’s liquidity We completed the acquisition of certain manufactured housing assets and liabilities of Fleetwood Homes in fiscal year 2010. We may also consider other strategic acquisitions if such opportunities arise. Any transactions that we consider may involve a number of risks including the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business for those transactions that we complete, or possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process and on our liquidity. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage the newly acquired operations or employees of Fleetwood Homes or potential future acquisitions. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, which may lead to operational inefficiencies. Our participation in certain wholesale financing programs for the purchase of our products by industry retailers may expose us to additional risk of credit loss, which could adversely impact the Company’s liquidity and results of operations We are exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of certain customers and business partners, including independent retailers and inventory financing partners, many of whom may be adversely affected by the volatile conditions in the financial markets. These conditions could result in financial instability or other adverse effects at any of our customers or business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include delinquencies by retailers who purchase our product under special inventory financing initiatives and deterioration of collateral values. In addition, we may incur losses if our collateral cannot be recovered or liquidated at prices sufficient to recover recorded notes receivable balances. The realization of any of these factors may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 