Risk Factors The ownership of our common stock involves a number of risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks that are currently unknown to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial may also impair our business or adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred net losses in prior periods and there can be no assurance that we will generate income in the future Although we generated income from continuing operations during the past four fiscal years, we have incurred net losses in prior years. Net losses in these years were attributable in substantial part to the recent downturn affecting the manufactured housing industry, which is discussed in detail below. The likelihood that we will generate net income in the future must be considered in light of the difficulties facing the manufactured housing industry as a whole, as well as the competitive environment in which we operate and the other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report. There can be no assurance that we will generate net income in the future. We operate in an industry that is currently experiencing a prolonged and significant downturn Since mid-1999, the manufactured housing industry has experienced a prolonged and significant downturn. This downturn has resulted in part from the fact that, beginning in 1999, consumer lenders in the sector began to tighten underwriting standards and curtail credit availability in response to higher than anticipated rates of loan defaults and significant losses upon the repossession and resale of homes securing defaulted loans. Other causes of the downturn include a reduced number of consumer lenders in the traditional chattel (home-only) lending sector, higher interest rates on home-only loans and generally unfavorable economic conditions. These factors have resulted in declining wholesale shipments, excess manufacturing and retail locations and surplus inventory. As a result of the foregoing factors, based on industry data, we estimate that approximately 54% of all industry retail locations have closed since 1999 and that industry manufacturers have closed 120 manufacturing facilities, representing 36% of the industry’s manufacturing facilities. We expect that the current industry downturn is likely to continue, at least in the near term. The availability of consumer financing for the purchase of manufactured homes continues to be constrained, as discussed below. In addition, the large number of repossessed homes being offered for sale continues to have an adverse impact on demand for new manufactured homes. Although it is difficult to predict future industry conditions, these factors tend to indicate that a sustained recovery in the manufactured housing industry is unlikely to occur in the near term. If the current industry downturn gets materially worse, we may incur operating and net losses, and may be required to take steps in an attempt to mitigate the effect of unfavorable industry conditions, such as the closure of facilities or consolidation of existing operations. These steps could impair our ability to conduct our business in a manner consistent with past practice and could make it more difficult for us to expand our operations if and when industry conditions improve. Furthermore, some of these steps could lead to fixed asset impairment charges and goodwill impairment charges. A write-off of all or part of our goodwill could adversely affect our operating results and net worth A substantial portion of our total assets at March 31, 2005 consisted of goodwill, all of which is attributable to our manufacturing operations. In particular, goodwill accounted for approximately 46% of our total assets at March 31, 2005. Effective in fiscal 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As a result, we no longer amortize goodwill. Instead, we review goodwill at least annually to determine whether it has become impaired. If goodwill has become impaired, we charge the impairment as an expense in the period in which the impairment occurred. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. Our goodwill could be impaired if developments affecting our manufacturing operations or the markets in which we produce manufactured homes lead us to conclude that the cash flows we expect to derive from our manufacturing operations will be substantially reduced. A write off of all or part of our goodwill could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The cyclical nature of the manufactured housing industry causes our revenues and operating results to fluctuate, and we expect this cyclicality to continue in the future The manufactured housing industry is highly cyclical and is influenced by many national and regional economic and demographic factors, including: • the availability of consumer financing for homebuyers; • the availability of wholesale financing for retailers; 9 Table of Contents • consumer confidence; • interest rates; • demographic and employment trends; • income levels; • housing demand; • general economic conditions, including inflation and recessions; and • the availability of suitable homesites. As a result of the foregoing economic, demographic and other factors, our revenues and operating results fluctuate, and we expect them to continue to fluctuate in the future. Moreover, we may experience operating losses during cyclical downturns in the manufactured housing market. Our liquidity and ability to raise capital may be limited From 1998 through June of 2003, our operations were funded principally through intercompany borrowings from Centex. Centex is a company with investment grade credit ratings that has access to a wide variety of credit sources. We no longer have access to funding provided by Centex. We may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future. The type, timing and terms of the financing selected by us will depend on, among other things, our cash needs, the availability of other financing sources and prevailing conditions in the financial markets. There can be no assurance that any of these sources will be available to us at any time or that they will be available on satisfactory terms. Tightened credit standards and curtailed lending activity by home-only lenders have contributed to a constrained consumer financing market Consumers who buy our manufactured homes have historically secured retail financing from third-party lenders. The availability, terms and costs of retail financing depend on the lending practices of financial institutions, governmental policies and economic and other conditions, all of which are beyond our control. A consumer seeking to finance the purchase of a manufactured home without land will generally pay a higher interest rate and have a shorter loan maturity than a consumer seeking to finance the purchase of land and the home. In addition, home-only financing is at times more difficult to obtain than financing for site-built homes. Since 1999, home-only lenders have tightened the credit underwriting standards and increased interest rates for loans to purchase manufactured homes, which has reduced lending volumes and caused our sales to decline. In addition, most of the national lenders who have historically provided home-only loans have exited this sector of the industry. Conseco Finance was historically one of the largest originators of home-only loans in the manufactured housing industry. In December 2002, Conseco Inc., the parent company of Conseco Finance Corp., filed for bankruptcy protection and ceased its lending activities. In May 2004, JP Morgan Chase Bank, the lender with the largest loan origination volume in the home-only financing market, announced it was ceasing its manufactured housing lending activities. If home-only financing were to become further curtailed or unavailable, we would expect to experience further retail and manufacturing sales declines. The availability of wholesale financing for industry retailers is limited due to a reduced number of floor plan lenders and reduced lending limits Manufactured housing retailers generally finance their inventory purchases with wholesale floor plan financing provided by lending institutions. The availability of wholesale financing is significantly affected by the number of floor plan lenders and their lending limits. During the past five years, a substantial number of wholesale lenders have exited the industry or curtailed their floor plan operations. Conseco Finance was historically the largest floor plan lender, previously providing about 25% of the industry’s wholesale financing. Conseco Finance discontinued approving and funding new floor plan loan requests in April 2002 and filed for bankruptcy protection in December 2002. With Conseco’s exit, Deutsche Financial Services was the largest remaining floor plan lender, providing approximately 20% of the industry’s wholesale financing. Deutsche Financial Services discontinued approving and funding new floor plan loan requests in November 2002 and proceeded to liquidate its existing floor plan receivables. There are currently three national lending institutions that specialize in providing wholesale floor plan financing to manufactured housing retailers. Reduced availability of floor plan lending may affect the inventory levels of our independent retailers, their number of retail sales centers and related wholesale demand, and may also have an adverse effect on our access to capital on an ongoing basis. 10 Table of Contents We have contingent repurchase obligations related to wholesale financing provided to industry retailers In accordance with customary business practice in the manufactured housing industry, we have entered into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions and other credit sources who provide floor plan financing to industry retailers, which provide that we will be obligated, under certain circumstances, to repurchase homes sold to retailers in the event of a default by a retailer in its obligation to such credit sources. Under these agreements, we have agreed to repurchase homes at declining prices over the term of the agreement (which in most cases is 18 months). We estimate that our potential obligations under such repurchase agreements were approximately $25.3 million as of March 31, 2005. We may be required to honor contingent repurchase obligations in the future and may incur additional expense as a consequence of these repurchase agreements. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive, and competition may increase the adverse effects of industry conditions The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive. Competition at both the manufacturing and retail levels is based upon several factors, including price, product features, reputation for service and quality, merchandising, terms of retailer promotional programs and the terms of retail customer financing. Numerous companies produce manufactured homes in our markets. In addition, our homes compete with repossessed homes that are offered for sale in our markets. A number of our manufacturing competitors also have their own retail distribution systems and consumer finance and insurance operations. The ability to offer consumer finance and insurance products may provide some competitors with an advantage. In addition, there are many independent manufactured housing retail locations in most areas where we have retail operations. We believe that where wholesale floor plan financing is available, it is relatively easy for new retailers to enter into our markets as competitors. In addition, our products compete with other forms of low to moderate-cost housing, including new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. If we are unable to compete effectively in this environment, our retail sales and wholesale shipments could be reduced. As a result, our growth could be limited. If we are unable to establish or maintain relationships with independent retailers who sell our homes, our sales could decline During fiscal 2005, approximately 95% of our wholesale shipments of manufactured homes were made to independent retail locations in the United States. As is common in the industry, independent retailers may sell manufactured homes produced by competing manufacturers. We may not be able to establish relationships with new independent retailers or maintain good relationships with independent retailers that sell our homes. Even if we do establish and maintain relationships with independent retailers, these retailers are not obligated to sell our manufactured homes exclusively, and may choose to sell our competitors’ homes instead. The independent retailers with whom we have relationships can cancel these relationships on short notice. In addition, these retailers may not remain financially solvent, as they are subject to industry, economic, demographic and seasonal trends similar to the ones we face. If we do not establish and maintain relationships with solvent independent retailers in one or more of our markets, sales in those markets could decline. The manufactured housing industry is seasonal, and this causes our results of operations to fluctuate The manufactured housing industry is generally seasonal. In states other than Arizona, sales during the period from March to November are higher than in other months. As a result, our operating results tend to fluctuate on a seasonal basis, with less favorable conditions prevailing in the winter months. Our results of operations can be adversely affected by the pricing and availability of raw materials Our results of operations can be affected by the pricing and availability of raw materials. Although we attempt to increase the sales prices of our homes in response to higher materials costs, such increases typically lag behind the escalation of materials costs. Four of the most important raw materials used in our operations, wood and wood products, gypsum wallboard, steel and insulation, have experienced significant price increases in recent periods. Although we have not experienced any severe or prolonged shortage of such building materials to date, there can be no assurance that sufficient supplies of wood and wood products, gypsum wallboard, steel and insulation, as well as other raw materials, will continue to be available to us on satisfactory terms. If the manufactured housing industry is not able to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our business could be adversely affected Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, property owners often have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, which we believe has restricted the growth of the industry. Manufactured homes may not achieve widespread acceptance and localities may not adopt zoning ordinances permitting the development of manufactured home communities. If the manufactured housing industry is unable to secure favorable local zoning ordinances, our sales could decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents The loss of any of our executive officers could reduce our ability to execute our business strategy and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations We are dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts of our executive officers, particularly Joseph H. Stegmayer, our Chief Executive Officer, David L. Blank, our Vice President of Operations, and Sean K. Nolen, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers could impair our ability to execute our business strategy and have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have no key man life insurance for any of our executive officers. We have a limited operating history as an independent company Prior to June 30, 2003, we operated as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Centex. Accordingly, our management team has limited experience in operating our company as an independent public company. We no longer have any affiliation with Centex, and our ability to satisfy our obligations and achieve or maintain profitability is solely dependent upon the future performance of our business. In addition, our management team will need to comply with the numerous regulatory and other requirements applicable to independent public companies, including requirements relating to corporate governance, listing standards and securities and investor relations issues. You may have difficulty evaluating our business, as our historical financial information may not be representative of what our results of operations would have been if we had been an independent company Our historical financial statements included in this Annual Report may not reflect the results of operations, financial condition and cash flows that would have been achieved by our company had we been operated independently prior to June 30, 2003. We have not made adjustments to this information to reflect changes that may have occurred in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of being an independent public company. Among other things, our historical financial statements may not reflect the costs to us of borrowing funds as a stand-alone entity, additional compensation costs or the costs of complying with laws and regulations applicable to public companies. We could be responsible for certain tax liabilities if the Internal Revenue Service challenges the tax-free nature of the distribution Centex received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the distribution of shares of Cavco common stock to stockholders of Centex will be tax-free to its stockholders, except to the extent that cash is received in lieu of fractional shares, and that Centex will generally not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the distribution. The ruling was based on then current law and was subject to the accuracy of certain representations made by Centex in its request for the private letter ruling and certain assumptions regarding Centex and us that are described in the ruling. Although Centex and we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause the representations made by Centex in its request for the private letter ruling or the assumptions on which the ruling was based to be materially incorrect, no assurance can be given in this regard. If any of these representations or assumptions were to prove to be materially incorrect, and the Internal Revenue Service were to challenge the tax-free nature of the distribution, it is possible that the distribution could be held to be a distribution taxable as a dividend by Centex of our common stock to the stockholders of Centex for federal income tax purposes. If the distribution were held to be a taxable distribution, Centex would be subject to tax to the extent that the fair market value of our common stock exceeded the adjusted tax basis of Centex in our common stock at the time of the distribution. In addition, each holder of Centex common stock who received shares of our common stock in the distribution would generally be treated as having received a taxable dividend in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received at the time of the distribution (assuming that Centex had current or accumulated earnings and profits equal to the total value of the distribution). Pursuant to the tax sharing agreement entered into between us and Centex, we have agreed, in certain circumstances, to indemnify Centex against any tax liability that is incurred as a result of the failure of the distribution to qualify as a tax-free transaction. If we are required to make this payment and the amount is significant, the payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Events could result in significant tax liability Under United States federal income tax laws, even if the distribution qualifies for tax-free treatment, Centex may nevertheless be subject to tax if acquisitions or issuances of either our common stock or Centex stock following the distribution cause the stockholders of Centex (determined as of the effective time of the distribution) to subsequently own less than a majority of outstanding shares of either Centex or us. In particular, this tax will apply if such issuances or acquisitions occur as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuance of Centex stock or our stock within two years before or after the distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although this presumption may be rebutted. If the subsequent acquisitions or issuance of either the stock of Centex or our stock triggers this tax, Centex will be subject to tax on the gain that would have resulted from a sale of our stock distributed in the distribution. Because of this, pursuant to a tax sharing agreement between us and Centex, we have agreed that we will not liquidate, merge or consolidate with any other entity within two years of the distribution, dispose of a substantial portion of our assets within two years of the distribution, or take any other action which would cause the distribution to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction. In addition, we are obligated in certain circumstances to indemnify Centex against any losses or expenses incurred by Centex in the event any such tax is imposed by the Internal Revenue Service. We may be required to satisfy certain indemnification obligations to Centex, or may not be able to collect on indemnification rights from Centex We entered into a distribution agreement with Centex in connection with the distribution, which agreement allocates responsibility between Centex and us for various liabilities and obligations. For example, the distribution agreement provides that we and Centex will agree to indemnify one another against claims arising with respect to the indebtedness, liabilities and obligations that will be retained by our respective companies. The principal purpose for our indemnification obligations is to provide assurance to Centex that we will bear all liabilities arising from the Cavco business and associated assets. Our ability to satisfy any such indemnification obligations will depend upon the future financial strength of our company. At the present time, although we cannot determine the amount for which we may be obligated to indemnify Centex, we do not believe that the amount of our potential indemnification obligations is likely to be material. We also cannot assure you that we will be successful in collecting on any indemnification obligations that may be owing to us by Centex. If we or Centex were unable to fund or collect on these indemnification obligations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain provisions of our organizational documents could delay or make more difficult a change in control of our company Certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change of control of our company, and may have the effect of entrenching our current management or possibly depressing the market price of our common stock. For example, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws authorize blank series preferred stock, establish a staggered board of directors and impose certain procedural and other requirements for stockholder proposals. Furthermore, the fact that income taxes could be imposed as a result of ownership changes occurring in conjunction with the distribution may have the effect of delaying or making more difficult certain transactions involving a change of control of our company. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock We do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and various factors may prevent us from paying dividends. Such factors include our cash requirements and liquidity and the requirements of state corporate and other laws. In addition, the terms of our credit facility with Bank One limit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. Volatility of Stock Price The price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include the perceived prospects of our business and the manufactured housing industry as a whole; differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; changes affecting the availability of financing in the wholesale and consumer lending markets; actions or announcements by competitors; changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate; and changes in general economic or market conditions. In addition, stock markets generally experience significant price and volume volatility from time to time which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our performance. 13 Table of Contents 