Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are important risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on Symbol’s business, results of operations and financial condition and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by Symbol or our management. Risks relating to SEC and United States Attorney’s Office investigations We recently settled separate investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District (the “Eastern District”) relating to the accounting misconduct of our prior management. A violation of these settlement agreements could result in further prosecution by the SEC and the Eastern District. On June 3, 2004, we announced that the SEC and the Eastern District concluded separate investigations relating to certain of our prior accounting practices and the prior administration of certain of our stock option plans. These investigations arose in response to an inquiry from the SEC in 2001. As a result of the SEC inquiry, we conducted an initial internal investigation in May 2001, with the assistance of a law firm. We subsequently discovered that this investigation was hindered by certain of our former employees. As a result of the actions by these former employees, the SEC expressed dissatisfaction with the investigation. In March 2002, we undertook a second internal investigation that lasted approximately 18 months, with the assistance of a different law firm and an independent forensic accounting team. The results of that internal investigation gave rise to the restatement of our financial statements that affected our selected data for 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001, our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 and our unaudited selected quarterly information for each of the four quarters in 2001 and the first three quarters of 2002. We have resolved the investigations by the SEC and the Eastern District and have entered into a settlement agreement with the SEC, in connection with which we were issued an injunction, and a non-prosecution agreement with the Eastern District. As previously disclosed in our filings with the SEC, we have engaged outside counsel to assist with the investigation of the events leading to the discrepancies discovered at our company-owned distribution facility in November 2004 and in responding to requests made by the Eastern District and the SEC regarding this matter, including whether we have complied with the injunction issued in connection with the June 2004 settlement with the SEC and non-prosecution agreement with the Eastern District. In addition, we and two of our former officers have recently been named as defendants in the class action lawsuits alleging that we violated the federal securities laws by issuing statements concerning our prospects, financial results and financial controls that were allegedly false and misleading. There can be no assurance that these events will not give rise to an enforcement action or other proceeding brought by the Eastern District or the SEC. If we are found to have violated the injunction issued in connection with the June 2004 settlement with the SEC or the non-prosecution agreement with the Eastern District or if we commit other violations, such as accounting offenses that were not the subject of the investigations, we have waived defenses that may have otherwise been available to us, including the statute of limitations, and will be subject to prosecution for any offense, including any offense that was the subject of the non-prosecution agreement. This could have a material adverse effect on us. Pending litigation relating to the accounting misconduct of our prior management could generate negative publicity for us. This could result in a decline in our stock price and cause you to lose part of your investment. In March and June 2003 and February 2005, Robert Asti, our former Vice President — North America Sales and Service — Finance, Robert Korkuc, our former Chief Accounting Officer, and Brian Burke, our former Senior Vice President of Worldwide Operations and Chief Accounting Officer, respectively, pled guilty to two counts of securities fraud in connection with the government investigations described above. The SEC has filed civil complaints against Messrs. Asti, Korkuc and Burke based upon similar facts. Since June 2004, the Eastern District has announced that five additional former employees, including Leonard Goldner, our former Executive Vice President and General Counsel, have pled guilty to various conspiracy charges. The guilty pleas of the eight individuals mentioned above; the resolution of these civil complaints with the SEC; the continued prosecution by the Eastern District of Tomo Razmilovic and three other members of our former 17 management team; or the SEC’s filing of complaints against eleven members of our former management team for securities fraud and other violations of the federal securities laws could generate negative publicity for us and result in a decline in our stock price. In addition, we and a number of our former officers have recently been named as defendants in class action lawsuits alleging we violated the federal securities laws by issuing statements concerning our prospects, financial results and financial controls that were allegedly false and misleading. More recently, we and eleven of our current and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in a derivative lawsuit alleging that we breached our fiduciary duties by failing to implement initiatives to improve our internal controls. We intend to vigorously defend each of these lawsuits. These matters are in their early procedural stages, and thus we are unable to predict the likelihood or range of potential liability or the potential financial impact of our future operations if we are not able to successfully defend or settle these cases. As a result of these lawsuits, we may be subject to additional securities class action litigation. Also, we are unable to predict the effect that these pending lawsuits, or similar lawsuits filed against us in the future, may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Our indemnification of our former management obligates us to indemnify and advance legal expenses to them, including with respect to the pending criminal and civil litigation for accounting misconduct, in accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other applicable agreements and Delaware law. Our insurance coverage is not sufficient to cover our liabilities related to such litigation and the settlement of the securities fraud class action lawsuits. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, material expense to satisfy such obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We are obligated to indemnify and advance legal expenses to our former directors, officers or employees in accordance with the terms of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, other applicable agreements and Delaware law. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for the indemnification of our directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, we may generally indemnify directors, officers and other employees against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement in connection with specified actions, suits and proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than in derivative actions), if they acted in good faith and in a manner they reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe their conduct was unlawful. We have settled all claims relating to the indemnification and payment of legal expenses for our former directors, officers and employees with our insurance carriers for $10.2 million. Since the final settlement of all claims against our former directors, officers and employees will exceed $10.2 million, we are be obligated to pay such excess amount, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We do not expect our insurance coverage to cover our total liabilities and related litigation costs in the actions discussed above, and in the litigations discussed in our periodic filings with the SEC, and the total liabilities and costs are still uncertain. On August 3, 2005, we tendered 7.7 million shares related to the class action settlement. The plaintiffs have yet to specify the amount of damages being sought in the civil actions against our former management and our former board of directors, and, therefore, we are unable to estimate what our ultimate liability under our indemnification obligations in such lawsuits may be. Our indemnification obligations discussed above may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A failure to implement effectively and efficiently our plan to remediate deficiencies in our internal controls and procedures could result in accounting errors and in violations of our settlement agreement with the SEC and our non-prosecution agreement with the Eastern District. As previously reported in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, we reported that a material weakness existed related to the manner in which we processed transactions to record revenue. Additionally, we reported that deficiencies existed relating to the adequacy and timeliness of account reconciliations, formalized worldwide policies and procedures, the amount of manual journal entries required to record transactions and the 18 updating of documents with customers. We also reported that for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, we had other material weaknesses that have since been remediated. In addition, in November 2004, during our inventory testing (including a planned physical inventory at a company-owned distribution center), two unrelated errors were discovered. These errors were the result of two discrete events. One event involved inaccurate inventory levels reported to us by a large distribution partner. The under-reported inventory levels resulted in us inaccurately reporting $3.3 million in revenues in our earnings release on October 26, 2004 for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2004. This was an oversight on the part of the distribution partner, which made us aware of the reporting error as soon as it was discovered. The second discrepancy was the result of errors that occurred at a company-owned distribution facility that serves one of our large retail customers. The distribution center relies on its own internal reporting system and misreported inventory. As a result of this second discrepancy, we over-reported revenue by $10.3 million for the three-and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2004 in our earnings release on October 26, 2004. Based on these findings, management believed there were significant deficiencies relating to the controls for receiving, shipping and ultimately reporting the amount of inventory. We have investigated the events leading to the discrepancies discovered at our company-owned distribution facility and have taken appropriate remedial actions. Additionally, we engaged outside counsel to assist with the investigation and in responding to requests made by the Eastern District and the SEC regarding this matter, including whether Symbol has complied with the injunction issued in connection with the June 2004 settlement with the SEC and non-prosecution agreements with the Eastern District. There can be no assurance that these events will not give rise to an enforcement action or other proceeding, or to the imposition of fines or other penalties, by the Eastern District or the SEC. We have experienced material weaknesses in our internal controls in the past. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to provide timely and accurate financial statements. This could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial results and have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. As noted, in 2002 and 2003, we have identified a number of “material weaknesses” and “reportable conditions” in our internal financial controls. Some of these weaknesses resulted in errors in our historical financial statements, which in turn resulted in a restatement of our financial statements that affected our selected data for 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001, our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 2001 and our unaudited selected quarterly information for each of the four quarters in 2001 and the first three quarters of 2002. In order to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we instituted a substantial remediation process during 2003 and 2004. This process has enabled our management to conclude that our system of internal accounting control was effective as of December 31, 2004 and 2005. However, these remediation efforts are not automated and required a number of back-end reconciliation and detect controls. These processes are manually intensive and require skilled accounting resources in order to be effective. Until we are able to develop an automated process for internal accounting controls, our continued compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require maintenance of skilled accounting resources. In general, the recruitment and retention of skilled accounting resources is particularly difficult in today’s environment. Additionally, we are required to file with the SEC an attestation report of our auditors on our management’s assessment of and operating effectiveness of internal controls. If a material weakness were identified with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, we would not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, which could result in the inability of our external auditors to deliver an unqualified report, or any report, on our internal controls. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effective on the trading price of our securities. 19 Risks related to our business We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to our existing products. If we fail to predict and respond to emerging technological trends and our customers’ changing needs or if we are unable to reduce our manufacturing costs over time as anticipated, we may not be able to remain competitive. We are active in the research and development of new products and technologies and enhancing our current products. However, research and development in the enterprise mobility industry is complex and filled with uncertainty. If we expend a significant amount of resources and our efforts do not lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share. In addition, it is common for research and development projects to encounter delays due to unforeseen problems, resulting in low initial volume production, fewer product features than originally considered desirable and higher production costs than initially budgeted, which may result in lost market opportunities. In addition, new products may not be commercially well received. There could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and market share due to such delays or deficiencies in the development, manufacturing and delivery of new products. We have made significant investments to develop enterprise mobility products because we believe enterprise mobility is a new and developing market in the information technology industry. One example of our investments was our acquisition in 2004 of Matrics, Inc. (“Matrics”), a leader in developing EPC-compliant RFID systems. If the RFID market or other markets in which we are investing do not grow, retailers and consumers do not react enthusiastically to enterprise mobility, we are unable to sell our enterprise mobility products and services at projected rates or the market adopts a standard for RFID technology that is different than that offered by Matrics, then there could be a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our efforts in enterprise mobility are also dependent, in part, on applications developed and infrastructure deployed by third parties. If third parties do not develop robust, new or innovative applications or create the appropriate infrastructure for enterprise mobility products and offer them to us or our customers on commercially reasonable terms, then there could be a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Once a product is in the marketplace, its selling price usually decreases over the life of the product, especially after a new competitive product is publicly announced, because customers often delay purchases of existing products until the new or improved versions of those products are available. To lessen the effect of price decreases, our research and development teams attempt to reduce manufacturing costs of existing products in order to maintain or improve our margins on such products. However, if cost reductions do not occur in a timely manner, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results and market share. Our business, operating results and growth rates may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions, as well as the volatile geopolitical environment. Our current business and operating plan assumes that economic activity in general, and information technology (“IT”) spending in particular, will at least remain at current levels; however, we cannot be assured of the level of IT spending, the deterioration of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and growth rates. Our business is especially affected by the economic success of the retail sector, which accounts for a significant portion of our business, and our results of operations may be adversely affected if the global economic and market conditions in the retail sector do not improve. For the year ended December 31, 2005, direct sales to the retail sector accounted for approximately 15% of our total revenue and approximately 58% of our direct sales. In addition, our reseller customers sell our products to the retail sector, which may represent a substantial portion of our reseller customers’ sales. If interest rates rise, consumer demand could be further dampened and related retail IT spending may be reduced. 20 We have made strategic acquisitions and entered into alliances and joint ventures in the past and intend to do so in the future. If we are unable to find suitable acquisitions or partners or to achieve expected benefits from such acquisitions or partnerships, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates and results of operations. As part of our ongoing business strategy to expand product offerings and acquire new technology, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, strategic alliances and joint ventures. If we are unable to identify future acquisition opportunities or reach agreement with such third parties, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, growth rates and results of operations. Even if we are able to complete acquisitions or enter into alliances and joint ventures that we believe will be successful, such transactions, especially those involving technology companies like Matrics, are inherently risky. Significant risks to these transactions, including the acquisition of Matrics, include the following: • integration and restructuring costs, both one-time and ongoing; • maintaining sufficient controls, policies and procedures; • diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business operations; • establishing new informational, operational and financial systems to meet the needs of our business; • losing key employees; • failing to achieve anticipated synergies, including with respect to complementary products; and • unanticipated and unknown liabilities. The acquisition of Matrics may not produce the revenue, earnings, business synergies or technological advances that we anticipate. This could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. The RFID market may not perform as expected for a variety of reasons, including the failure in the development and acceptance of EPC-compliant RFID systems, higher than expected implementation costs associated with RFID and the unreliability of unproven technology. In addition, a competitor of Symbol commenced a patent infringement lawsuit against Matrics, which has since been merged with and into Symbol. Any one or a combination of these factors may cause our revenue or earnings to be further negatively impacted. Although the RFID market is at the early stages of development, we paid a significant premium for Matrics because we believe that EPC-based technology will be a material area of investment for our customers in our retail, manufacturing, transportation and logistics, wholesale distribution, healthcare and government vertical markets. We believe that Matrics is an early market leader with its commercial tag and reader products based on its trial deployments and full implementations with its customers in retail, transportation, healthcare, and government vertical markets. Our goal is to obtain a significant share of the market by combining our expertise in sales and support for enterprise mobility solutions along with our engineering resources and the Matrics expertise in this emerging market, which is a market that is projected to grow rapidly in the next three to five years. We currently believe that the costs we will incur during the product life cycle for both existing technology and future, replacement RFID technology will be consistent with the expenditures we have incurred in developing and maintaining our existing enterprise mobility solutions. If we are unable to develop or enhance the Matrics technology within the timeframe expected, we may not meet our revenue and profitability projections. Furthermore, we believe that a number of our existing customers intend to deploy RFID systems utilizing technology such as that provided by Matrics and if we fail to deliver those products, those customers may be less willing to purchase our other existing products, further negatively impacting revenue and profitability. If we do not develop or enhance the Matrics technology in line with our projections, we may be required to incur higher operating and capital expenses than expected in order to address these issues and meet projections. 21 The enterprise mobility industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures from existing and new companies may have a materially adverse effect on our business, revenues, growth rates and market share. The enterprise mobility industry is a highly competitive industry that is influenced by the following: • advances in technology; • new product introductions; • evolving industry standards; • product improvements; • rapidly changing customer needs; • intellectual property invention and protection; • marketing and distribution capabilities; • competition from highly capitalized companies; • entrance of new competitors; • ability of customers to invest in information technology; and • price competition. If we do not keep pace with product and technology advances, there could be a material adverse effect on our competitive position, revenues and prospects for growth. There is also likely to be continued pricing pressure as competitors attempt to maintain or increase market share. The products manufactured and marketed by us and our competitors in the enterprise mobility industry are becoming more complex. As the technological and functional capabilities of future products increase, these products may begin to compete with products being offered by traditional computer, network and communications industry participants that have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and manufacturing resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully against these new competitors, and competitive pressures may result in a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. We are subject to risks related to our operations outside the United States. Unpredictable foreign sales and manufacturing environments may have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and revenues. A substantial portion of our revenue has been generated from sales outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2005, non-U.S. sales accounted for 42% of our revenue. We also manufacture most of our products outside the United States, and we anticipate that an increasing percentage of new products and subassemblies will be manufactured outside the United States. These sales and manufacturing activities are subject to the risks of foreign operations, including the following: • increased security requirements; • political uncertainties; • transportation delays and interruptions; • the impact of recessionary or inflationary foreign economies; • adapting to different regulatory requirements; and • different technology standards or customer expectations. Many of these risks have affected our business in the past and may in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and revenues. We cannot predict whether the United States or any other country 22 will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation of our products or supplies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales and manufacturing activities in foreign countries may be subject to lengthy receivables collection periods. A significant increase in our uncollected receivables may have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Economic conditions in foreign countries where obligors under our receivables reside may affect our ability to collect our receivables. Such economic conditions include, but are not limited to: • unemployment; • interest rates; • exchange rates; • inflation rates; and • consumer perceptions of the economy. If a large number of our obligors located in a foreign country experience any of the above-mentioned conditions, or other conditions, or if we otherwise experience a significant increase in the length of our receivables collection periods or the amount of our uncollected receivables, we may experience a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. At December 31, 2005, our percentage of non-U.S. receivables was approximately 43%. In addition, at December 31, 2005, our percentage of doubtful accounts for customers outside the United States was approximately 42% of our total allowance for doubtful accounts. We may face trade barriers that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and result in a loss of customers or suppliers. Trade barriers erected by the United States or other countries may interfere with our ability to offer our products and services in those markets. We cannot predict whether the United States or any other country will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation or exportation of our products or supplies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition and trade barriers in those countries could require us to reduce prices, increase spending on marketing or product development, withdraw from or not enter certain markets or otherwise take actions adverse to us. In all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to the laws and regulations that govern foreign investment and foreign trade, which may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the United States. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including our sales and margins. Most of our equipment sales in Western Europe and Asia are billed in foreign currencies and are subject to currency exchange fluctuations. In prior years, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to foreign currencies have had an impact on our sales and margins. We have a formal policy that permits the use of financial instruments to manage and reduce the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates that may arise in the normal course of our business. This policy prohibits the use of currency derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. However, we cannot predict the direction or magnitude of future currency fluctuations. A weakening of the currencies in which we generate sales relative to the currencies in which our costs are denominated may lower our results of operations and impair our financial condition. For example, we purchase a large number of parts, components and third-party products from Japan. The value of the yen in relation to the U.S. dollar strengthened during 2003, 2004 and 2005. If the value of the yen continues to strengthen relative to the dollar, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We enter into forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency loans principally to hedge the currency fluctuations in transactions denominated in foreign currencies, thereby limiting our risk that would otherwise result 23 from changes in exchange rates. During 2003, 2004 and 2005, the principal transactions hedged were short-term intercompany sales. The periods of the forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency loans correspond to the periods of the hedged transactions. In all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to the laws and regulations that govern currency exchange transactions, which may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into U.S. dollars. We rely on our manufacturing facility in Reynosa, Mexico to manufacture a significant portion of our products. Any problems at the Reynosa facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, costs of revenue and financial condition. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 62% of our product cost of revenue can be attributed to our facility in Reynosa. Approximately 60% of the products manufactured in this facility represent mobile computer products and approximately 40% represent scanners and RFID products. In the past, we have experienced manufacturing problems in the ordinary course of business, such as equipment breakdowns and short-term employee shortages, that have caused delivery delays. While these past delays have not been material, we may experience material production difficulties and product delivery delays in the future as a result of the following: • changing process technologies; • ramping production; • installing new equipment at our manufacturing facilities; • ability to hire and retain skilled employees; and • shortage of key components. If manufacturing problems in our Reynosa facility were to arise or if use of our manufacturing facility in Reynosa were to be interrupted by natural disaster or any other event, and we are unable to develop alternative sources for our production needs, we may not be able to meet customer demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, costs of operations and financial condition. Some components, subassemblies and products are purchased from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. The loss of any of these suppliers may cause us to incur additional set-up costs, result in delays in manufacturing and delivering our products or cause us to carry excess or obsolete inventory. While components and supplies are generally available from a variety of sources, we currently depend on a limited number of suppliers for several components for our equipment, and certain subassemblies and products. Some components, subassemblies and products are purchased from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. For example, we have a long-term strategic relationship with Olympus Optical, Inc. of Japan pursuant to which Olympus and Symbol jointly develop selected products that are manufactured by Olympus exclusively for sale by us in the field of our business and prospective businesses. The percentage of our product sales that include products or contain components manufactured by Olympus historically has ranged from approximately 10% to 20% in any given quarterly period. We have estimated that the temporary adverse impact if we lost Olympus as a manufacturer would be approximately 40% of the product sales that include products or contain components manufactured by Olympus or a temporary adverse impact of approximately 4% to 8% of total product sales. In addition, for certain components, subassemblies and products for which we may have multiple sources, we are still subject to significant price increases and limited availability due to market demand for such components, subassemblies and products. In the past, unexpected demand for communication products caused worldwide shortages of certain electronic parts, which had an adverse impact on our business. While we have entered into contracts with suppliers of parts that we anticipate may be in short supply, there can be no assurance that additional parts will not become the subject of such shortages or that such suppliers will be able to deliver the parts in fulfillment of their contracts. In addition, on occasion, we increase our component inventory in anticipation of supply shortages, which may result in our carrying excess or obsolete components if we do not properly anticipate customer demand and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 24 If shortages or delays exist, we may not be able to secure an adequate number of components at reasonable prices and acceptable quality and, therefore, may not be able to meet customer demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although the availability of components did not materially impact our business in 2003, 2004 or 2005, we cannot predict when and if component shortages will occur. We outsource the manufacturing of many of our components and products, and if third-party manufacturers lack sufficient quality control or if there are significant changes in the financial or business condition of such third-party manufacturers, our ability to supply quality products to our customers may be disrupted. We increasingly depend on outsourced manufacturing, primarily by manufacturers located outside the United States. Our increasing dependence on third-party manufacturers for outsourced components subjects us to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality or performance of our products containing such purchased components. Quality or performance failures by our third-party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to our customers and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues and financial condition. In addition, third-party manufacturers for outsourced components are consolidating in the electronic component industry. The consolidation of our third-party manufacturers for outsourced components may give the remaining and larger third-party manufacturers greater leverage to increase the prices that they charge and thereby increase our cost of component parts. Management of our inventory will be complex as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. Fluctuations in distributor demand may cause us to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which could result in lower gross margins. We must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors. Our gross inventory at the end of 2003 was $322.2 million with an estimated valuation allowance of $109.3 million or 33.9%. As of December 31, 2005, gross inventory has been reduced to $231.3 million with an estimated valuation allowance of $49.1 million or 21.2%. Management, during this time period, has improved its management of inventory, particularly its management of its supply chain as well as through its distribution channel. However, distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. If we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, which in turn could result in a lower gross margin. We sell a majority of our products through resellers, distributors and original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”). If the third-party distribution sources on which we rely do not perform their services adequately or efficiently or if they exit the industry, and we are not able to quickly find adequate replacements, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenue. We sell a majority of our products through resellers, distributors and OEMs. Some of our third-party distribution sources may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in worldwide business conditions, including economic downturn, or abide by our inventory and credit requirements. If the third-party distribution sources on which we rely do not perform their services adequately or efficiently or exit the industry, and we are not able to quickly find adequate replacements, there could be a material adverse effect on our revenue and market share. In addition, we do not have third-party distribution sources in certain parts of the world. If we are unable to effectively and efficiently supply and service customers outside our current geographic scope, there may be a material adverse effect on our growth rates and result of operations. In 2003, we implemented a new distribution system called the Symbol PartnerSelecttm Program that is designed to increase our business and the business of our resellers, distributors and OEMs and improve the quality of service and products offered to end users of our products and services. For example, under the Symbol PartnerSelecttm Program, resellers are selected for a program track and level based on a number of different criteria 25 such as hardware, software, and service offerings, number and level of Symbol certifications, level of partnership commitment and level of customer support. If the new program does not continue to be well received by our resellers, distributors and OEMs, or end users of our products and services, there could be a material adverse effect on our operating results. For example, one of our former resellers was not selected to participate in the Symbol PartnerSelecttm Program and has sued us for unfair competition in Europe. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights or if third parties assert we are in violation of their intellectual property rights, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to attract new customers and retain current customers. We protect our proprietary information and technology through licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries. There can be no assurance that these protections will be available in all cases or will be adequate to prevent our competitors from copying, reverse engineering or otherwise obtaining and using our technology, proprietary rights or products. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technology or design around our proprietary rights. In addition, an important scanner-integrated computer patent expired in July 2005. In each case, our ability to compete and to receive licensing revenues could be significantly impaired. To prevent substantial unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights, it may be necessary to prosecute actions for infringement and/or misappropriation of our proprietary rights against third parties. Any such action could result in significant costs and diversion of our resources and management’s attention, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in such action. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, or applications for any of the foregoing. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries in which our products are or may be licensed do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Third parties have, and may in the future, assert claims of infringement of intellectual property rights against us or against our partners for which we may be liable under certain terms of indemnification. Due to the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on proprietary technologies of third parties, and we may not be able to obtain, or continue to obtain, licenses from such third parties on reasonable terms. We have received, and have currently pending, third-party claims and may receive additional notices of such claims of infringement in the future. To date, such activities have not had a material adverse effect on our business and we have either prevailed in all litigation, obtained a license on commercially acceptable terms or otherwise been able to modify any affected products or technology. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to prevail in any such actions or that any license required under any such patent or other intellectual property would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, any such claim of infringement could result in an injunction that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services. The failure to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or the entry of an injunction that impairs our ability to market certain products or services could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Since we and third parties hold a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications related to our business, we believe that there is likely to continue to be significant litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. New safety regulations or changes in existing safety regulations related to our products may result in unanticipated costs or liabilities, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future sales and could place additional burdens on the operations of our business. Radio emissions and the use of lasers are subject to regulation in the United States and in other countries in which we do business. In the United States, various federal agencies including the Center for Devices and Radiological Health of the Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Communications Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and various state agencies have promulgated regulation that concern the use of lasers and/or radio/electromagnetic emissions standards. Member countries of the European 26 community have enacted standards concerning electrical and laser safety and electromagnetic compatibility and emissions standards. If any of our products becomes subject to new regulations or if any of our products becomes specifically regulated by additional government entities, compliance with such regulations could become more burdensome and there could be a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. In addition, our wireless communication products operate through the transmission of radio signals. Currently, operation of these products in specified frequency bands does not require licensing by regulatory authorities. Regulatory changes restricting the use of frequency bands or allocating available frequencies could become more burdensome and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and future sales. Compliance with environmental matters and worker health and safety laws could be costly and noncompliance with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, expenses and financial condition. Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain of our products are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. We could be subject to increased costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims if we violate or become liable under environmental and/or worker health and safety laws. In January 2003, the European Union (“EU”) issued two directives relating to chemical substances in electronic products. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive requires producers of electrical goods to pay for specified collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered products. EU governments were required to enact and implement legislation that complies with this directive by August 13, 2004 (such legislation together with the directive, the “WEEE Legislation”), and certain producers are to be financially responsible under the WEEE Legislation beginning in August 2005. The EU has issued another directive that requires electrical and electronic equipment placed on the EU market after July 1, 2006 to be free of lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium (above a threshold limit) and brominated flame retardants. EU governments were required to enact and implement legislation that complies with this directive by August 13, 2004 (such legislation together with this directive, the “RoHS Legislation”). If we do not comply with these directives, we may suffer a loss of revenue, be unable to sell in certain markets and/or countries, be subject to penalties and enforced fees and/or suffer a competitive disadvantage. Similar legislation could be enacted in other jurisdictions, including in the United States. Costs to comply with the WEEE Legislation, RoHS Legislation and/or similar future legislation, if applicable, could include costs associated with modifying our products, recycling and other waste processing costs, legal and regulatory costs and insurance costs. We have taken and will also be required to take additional reserves for costs associated with compliance with these regulations. We cannot assure you that the costs to comply with these new laws, or with current and future environmental and worker health and safety laws will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, expenses and financial condition. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, this could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate our executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and information technology support positions. In particular, our product generation efforts rely on hiring and retaining qualified engineers. Attracting and retaining skilled solutions providers in the IT support business and qualified sales representatives are also critical to our success. As previously disclosed, three of our senior executives recently resigned. Experienced management and technical, marketing and support personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. The loss of, or the inability to recruit, key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 Covenants in our credit facility may limit our ability to operate our business, which in turn could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Our credit facility contains covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions or other payments to our investors and creditors unless we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria. We must also comply with certain specified financial ratios and tests. Our material U.S. subsidiaries are subject to similar restrictions which may restrict their ability to make certain distributions to us. Our credit facility contains additional affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, limitations to entering into certain acquisitions, limitations on making capital expenditures, limitations on payment of dividends and limitations on repurchases of common stock under the employee stock purchase program. All of these restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business, which in turn could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition, and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. If we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we would be in default under our credit facility, and the debt incurred thereunder, together with accrued interest, could then be declared immediately due and payable. If we default under our credit facility, the lenders could cause all of our outstanding debt obligations under our credit facility to become due and payable, require us to apply all of our cash to repay the indebtedness under our credit facility or prevent us from making debt service payments on our other indebtedness. If we are unable to repay any borrowings when due, the lenders under our credit facility could proceed against their collateral, which includes most of the assets we own. In addition, any default under our credit facility could lead to an acceleration of debt under other debt instruments that contain cross acceleration or cross-default provisions. If the indebtedness under our credit facility and our other debt instruments is accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay amounts due under our credit facility or indebtedness under our other debt instruments. Our ability to comply with these provisions of our credit facility may be affected by changes in the economic or business conditions or other events beyond our control. As of June 30, 2005, we were not compliant with all financial covenants due to the corporate restructuring and settlement of the SAILS transaction. On June 30, 2005, we received a waiver and amendment from our lenders due to our settlement of the SAILS transaction, which was prohibited under the original credit agreement. This waiver and amendment also permitted us to exclude the termination payments related to the SAILS settlement from interest expense when calculating covenants. On August 2, 2005, we received an additional waiver and amendment from our lenders due to our failure to comply with the fixed charge covenant caused by the restructuring charges booked in the second quarter, and to be recorded in the third and fourth quarter of 2005, allowing us to exclude the 2005 restructuring charges from the fixed charge covenant calculation. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Existing indebtedness” included elsewhere herein. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 28 