Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition with respect to routes, services and fares. Our domestic routes are subject to competition from both new and established carriers, some of which have substantially lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. Our revenues continue to be materially adversely impacted by the growth of low-cost carriers, with which we compete in most of our markets. Significant expansion by low-cost carriers to our hub airports could have an adverse impact on our business. We also face increasing competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from rapidly expanding regional jet operators. In addition, we compete with foreign carriers, both on interior U.S. routes, due to marketing and codesharing arrangements, and in international markets. The continuing growth of low-cost carriers, including Southwest, AirTran and JetBlue, in the United States has placed significant competitive pressure on us and other network carriers. In addition, other hub-and-spoke carriers such as US Airways and United Airlines have reduced their costs through Chapter 11 reorganization. Our ability to compete effectively with low-cost carriers, restructured carriers and other airlines depends, in part, on our ability to achieve a cost structure that is competitive with those carriers. If we cannot lower our costs and subsequently maintain our costs at a competitive level, then our business, financial condition and operating results will continue to be materially adversely affected. The airline industry has changed fundamentally since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, and our business, financial condition and operating results have been materially adversely affected. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the airline industry has experienced fundamental and permanent changes, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which have resulted in industry-wide liquidity issues. The terrorist attacks significantly reduced the demand for air travel, and additional terrorist activity involving the airline industry could have an equal or greater impact. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, negatively affect us and the airline industry. Although global economic conditions have improved from their depressed levels after September 11, 2001, the airline industry in the United States has continued to experience a reduction in 16 Table of Contents high-yield business travel and increased price sensitivity in customers’ purchasing behavior. In addition, aircraft fuel prices have increased significantly during the last several years, were at historically high levels for an extended period during 2005 and remained at or near those levels during the early part of 2006. The airline industry has continued to add or restore capacity despite these conditions. We expect all of these conditions will persist and will continue to adversely impact our operations and our efforts to return to profitability. The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations may increase our operating costs. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. For instance, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that necessitate significant expenditures. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations. Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed from time to time that significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in November 2001, mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. The federal government has recently proposed a significant increase in the per ticket tax. Due to the weak revenue environment, the existing tax has negatively impacted our revenues because we generally have not been able to increase our fares to pass these fees on to our customers. Similarly, the proposed ticket tax increase, if implemented, could negatively impact our revenues. Furthermore, we and other U.S. carriers are subject to domestic and foreign laws regarding privacy of passenger and employee data that are not consistent in all countries in which we operate. In addition to the heightened level of concern regarding privacy of passenger data in the United States, certain European government agencies are initiating inquiries into airline privacy practices. Compliance with these regulatory regimes is expected to result in additional operating costs and could impact our operations and any future expansion. Our insurance costs have increased substantially as a result of the September 11 terrorist attacks, and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. As a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons (other than employees or passengers) for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, aviation insurers significantly increased the premiums for such coverage and for aviation insurance in general. Since September 24, 2001, the U.S. government has been providing U.S. airlines with war-risk insurance to cover losses, including those resulting from terrorism, to passengers, third parties (ground damage) and the aircraft hull. The coverage currently extends through August 31, 2006 (with a possible extension to December 31, 2006 at the discretion of the Secretary of Transportation). The withdrawal of government support of airline war-risk insurance would require us to obtain war-risk insurance coverage commercially, if available. Such commercial insurance could have substantially less desirable coverage than currently provided by the U.S. government, may not be adequate to protect our risk of loss from future acts of terrorism, may result in a material increase to our operating expenses or may not be obtainable at all, resulting in an interruption to our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 