Risk Factors Relating to the Airline Industry The airline industry is highly competitive and, if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected. We face significant competition with respect to routes, services and fares. Our domestic routes are subject to competition from both new and established carriers, some of which have lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by us. In particular, we face significant competition at our hub airports in Atlanta, Cincinnati, Detroit, Memphis, Minneapolis/St. Paul, New York-JFK, Salt Lake City, Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Amsterdam and Tokyo-Narita either directly at those airports or at the hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operators. Low-cost carriers, including Southwest, AirTran and JetBlue, have placed significant competitive pressure on us in the United States and on other network carriers in the domestic market. In addition, other network carriers have also significantly reduced their costs over the last several years. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure. If we cannot maintain our costs at a competitive level, then our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In light of increased jet fuel costs and other issues in recent years, we expect consolidation to occur in the airline industry. As a result of consolidation, we may face significant competition from larger carriers that may be able to generate higher amounts of revenue and compete more efficiently. In addition, we compete with foreign carriers, both on interior U.S. routes, due to marketing and codesharing arrangements, and in international markets. Through marketing and codesharing arrangements with U.S. carriers, foreign carriers have obtained access to interior U.S. passenger traffic. Similarly, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as transatlantic services to and beyond European cities, through alliances with international carriers. International marketing alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including the Star Alliance (among United Airlines, Continental, Lufthansa German Airlines and others) and the oneworld Alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways and others) have also significantly increased competition in international markets. The adoption of liberalized Open Skies Aviation Agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world, including in particular the Open Skies agreement between the United States and the Member States of the European Union, has accelerated this trend. Similarly, the recent Open Skies agreement between the United States and Japan could significantly increase competition among carriers serving those markets. The rapid spread of contagious illnesses can have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The rapid spread of a contagious illness, such as the H1N1 flu virus, can have a material adverse effect on the demand for worldwide air travel and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acceleration of the spread of H1N1 during the flu season in the Northern Hemisphere could have a significant adverse impact on the demand for air travel and as a result our financial results in addition to the impact that we experienced during the spring of 2009. Moreover, our operations could be negatively affected if employees are quarantined as the result of exposure to a contagious illness. Similarly, travel restrictions or operational problems resulting from the rapid spread of contagious illnesses in any part of the world in which we operate may have a materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Terrorist attacks or international hostilities may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 caused fundamental and permanent changes in the airline industry, including substantial revenue declines and cost increases, which resulted in industry-wide liquidity issues. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect us and the airline industry. The potential negative effects include increased security, insurance and other costs and lost revenue from increased ticket refunds and decreased ticket sales. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or other international hostilities involving the United States. 18 Table of Contents The airline industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and new regulations may increase our operating costs. Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. For instance, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that necessitate significant expenditures. We expect to continue incurring expenses to comply with the FAA’s regulations. Other laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have also been imposed from time to time that significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce revenues. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in November 2001, mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines. The federal government has on several occasions proposed a significant increase in the per ticket tax. The proposed ticket tax increase, if implemented, could negatively impact our results of operations. Proposals to address congestion issues at certain airports or in certain airspace, particularly in the Northeast United States, have included concepts such as “congestion-based” landing fees, “slot auctions” or other alternatives that could impose a significant cost on the airlines operating in those airports or airspace and impact the ability of those airlines to respond to competitive actions by other airlines. Furthermore, events related to extreme weather delays have caused Congress and the DOT to consider proposals related to airlines’ handling of lengthy flight delays during extreme weather conditions. The recent enactment of such a regulation by the DOT could have a negative impact on our operations in certain circumstances. Future regulatory action concerning climate change and aircraft emissions could have a significant effect on the airline industry. For example, the European Commission has adopted an emissions trading scheme applicable to all flights operating in the European Union, including flights to and from the United States. We expect that such a system will impose significant costs on our operations in the European Union. Other laws or regulations such as this emissions trading scheme or other U.S. or foreign governmental actions may adversely affect our operations and financial results, either through direct costs in our operations or through increases in costs for jet fuel that could result from jet fuel suppliers passing on increased costs that they incur under such a system. We and other U.S. carriers are subject to domestic and foreign laws regarding privacy of passenger and employee data that are not consistent in all countries in which we operate. In addition to the heightened level of concern regarding privacy of passenger data in the United States, certain European government agencies are initiating inquiries into airline privacy practices. Compliance with these regulatory regimes is expected to result in additional operating costs and could impact our operations and any future expansion. Our insurance costs have increased substantially as a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. As a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, aviation insurers significantly reduced the maximum amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons (other than employees or passengers) for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events. At the same time, aviation insurers significantly increased the premiums for such coverage and for aviation insurance in general. Since September 24, 2001, the U.S. government has been providing U.S. airlines with war-risk insurance to cover losses, including those resulting from terrorism, to passengers, third parties (ground damage) and the aircraft hull. The coverage currently extends through August 31, 2010. The withdrawal of government support of airline war-risk insurance would require us to obtain war-risk insurance coverage commercially, if available. Such commercial insurance could have substantially less desirable coverage than that currently provided by the U.S. government, may not be adequate to protect our risk of loss from future acts of terrorism, may result in a material increase to our operating expenses or may not be obtainable at all, resulting in an interruption to our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 