Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by various risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. You should carefully consider all of these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. The following important factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from the statements we make from time to time regarding our future results, including, but not limited to, forecasts regarding estimated revenue, earnings per share or cash provided by operating activities. Any forecast regarding our future performance reflects various assumptions which are subject to significant uncertainties and, as a matter of course, may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous factors which are beyond our control. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and the variation from such statements may be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated statements, and are encouraged to use the entire mix of historical and forward-looking information made available by us, and other information affecting us and our products and services, including the following factors. Weak economic conditions and turmoil in the financial services industry could continue to have an adverse effect on our operating results. Beginning in 2008, global financial markets experienced disruption, including, among other issues, volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of other investments. Governments took unprecedented actions intended to address the extreme market conditions. These economic developments adversely affected businesses like ours in a number of ways during 2009. The rate of small business formations, small business confidence, consumer spending and employment levels all have an impact on our businesses. Below average small business optimism and a decline in small business formations negatively impacted our results of operations in Small Business Services in 2009. Small businesses typically have more limited budgets and are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established companies. During economic downturns, small businesses may choose to spend their limited funds on items other than our products and services. Consumer spending and employment levels also trended negatively during 2009, resulting in some negative impact in our personal check businesses. We cannot predict whether these negative economic trends will improve or worsen in the near future. A continued downturn in general economic conditions could result in additional declines in our revenue and profitability. In addition, our committed line of credit is scheduled to expire in July 2010. As we negotiate a replacement line of credit, the current unfavorable credit environment and our current credit profile will result in higher interest rates and/or terms which are not as favorable to us as our existing line of credit agreement. As a result of global economic conditions, a number of financial institutions sought additional capital, merged with other financial institutions and, in some cases, failed. This turmoil in the financial services industry affected and may continue to affect our results of operations in a number of ways. Our experience indicates that financial institution failures and consolidation of companies within the financial services industry have caused some larger financial institutions to lose customers. This reduces our order volume when those customers move their accounts to financial institutions that are not our clients or they reduce or 13 Table of Contents delay their check purchases. The failure of one or more of our larger financial institution clients, or large portions of our customer base, could adversely affect our operating results. In addition to the possibility of losing a significant client, the inability to recover contract acquisition costs paid to one or more of our larger financial institution clients, or the inability to collect accounts receivable or contractually required contract termination payments from these financial institution clients, could have a significant negative impact on our results of operations. Also, there may be an increase in financial institution mergers and acquisitions during this period of economic uncertainty. Such an increase could adversely affect our operating results. Often the newly combined entity seeks to reduce costs by leveraging economies of scale in purchasing, including its check supply contracts. This results in check providers competing intensely on price in order to retain not only their previous business with one of the financial institutions, but also to gain the business of the other party in the merger/acquisition. Financial institution mergers and acquisitions can also impact the duration of our contracts. Normally, the length of our contracts with financial institutions ranges from four to six years. However, contracts may be renegotiated or bought out mid-term due to a consolidation of financial institutions. Although we devote considerable effort toward the development of a competitively-priced, high-quality suite of products and services for the financial services industry, there can be no assurance that significant financial institution clients will be retained or that the impact of the loss of a significant client can be offset through the addition of new clients or by expanded sales to our remaining clients. The severity and length of the present disruptions in the financial markets and the financial services industry, as well as the length of the recession in the global economy, are unknown. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and in general business conditions, which could continue to negatively affect our operating results. We may not be successful at implementing our growth strategies within Small Business Services. We continue to execute strategies intended to drive sustained revenue and earnings growth within Small Business Services. We are continuing to invest in several key enablers to achieve our strategies, including continuing to improve our e-commerce capabilities, implementing an integrated platform for our various brands, improving our customer analytics, focusing on key customer segments and improving our merchandising. We expect to drive growth as we gain new customers, grow our distributor channel and obtain a greater portion of our revenue from business services, including web design, hosting and other web services, payroll, logo design, search engine marketing and business networking. All of these initiatives have required and will continue to require investment. Business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, may impact the success of our growth strategies. We can provide no assurance that our growth strategies will be successful either in the short-term or the long-term and result in a positive return on our investment. We face intense competition in all areas of our business. Although we are one of the leading check printers in the United States, we face considerable competition. In addition to competition from alternative payment methods, we also face intense competition from another check printer in our traditional financial institution sales channel, from direct mail sellers of personal checks, from sellers of business checks and forms, from check printing software vendors and from internet-based sellers of checks to individuals and small businesses. Additionally, low price, high volume office supply chain stores offer standardized business forms, checks and related products to small businesses. Our business services offerings also face intense competition. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. Continued competition could result in additional price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of customers and an increase in up-front cash payments to financial institutions upon contract execution or renewal, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Small Business Services’ standardized business forms and related products face technological obsolescence and changing customer preferences. Continual technological improvements provide small business customers with alternative means to enact and record business transactions. For example, because of the lower price and higher performance capabilities of personal computers and related printers, small businesses now have an alternate means to print many business forms. Additionally, electronic transaction systems and off-the-shelf business software applications have been designed to replace pre-printed business forms products. If small business preferences change rapidly and we are unable to develop new products and services with comparable profit margins, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The check printing portion of the payments industry is mature and, if check usage declines faster than expected, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Check printing is, and is expected to continue to be, an essential part of our business. We sell checks for personal and small business use and believe that there will continue to be a substantial demand for these checks for the foreseeable future. However, the total number of checks written in the United States has been in decline since the mid-1990’s. According to our estimates, the total number of checks written by individuals and small businesses has been declining approximately four to six percent each year. The declines were greater in 2009 and 2008, we believe, due to the economic recession and instability in the financial services industry. We believe that the number of checks written will continue to decline due to the increasing use of alternative payment methods, including credit cards, debit cards, automated teller machines, direct deposit, and electronic and other bill paying services. However, the rate and the extent to which alternative payment methods will achieve acceptance and replace checks, whether as a result of legislative developments, personal preference or otherwise, cannot be predicted with certainty. A surge in the popularity of any of these alternative payment methods, or our inability to successfully offset the decline in check usage with other sources of revenue, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. The failure to reduce costs could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Intense competition compels us to continually improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve profitability. We intend to continue to reduce expenses, primarily within sales, marketing and our shared services functions, including fulfillment, information technology, real estate, finance and human resources. We also expect to continue to simplify our business processes and reduce our cost and expense structure. These initiatives have required and will continue to require up-front expenditures related to items such as redesigning and streamlining processes, consolidating information technology platforms, standardizing technology applications, improving real estate utilization and funding employee severance benefits. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve our anticipated cost reductions or that we will do so without incurring unexpected or greater than anticipated expenditures. Moreover, we may find that we are unable to achieve our business simplification and cost reduction goals without disruption to our business and, as a result, may choose to delay or forego certain cost reductions as business conditions require. Failure to meet our planned cost reduction targets would adversely affect our results of operations and could adversely affect our prospects if we are unable to remain competitive. Continued weak economic conditions could result in additional asset impairment charges. Declines in our stock price, as well as the impact of the economic downturn on our expected operating results, led to asset impairment charges in 2009 related to goodwill and an indefinite-lived trade name in our Small Business Services segment. If our stock price declines in the future for a sustained period or if a continued downturn in economic conditions continues to negatively affect our actual and forecasted operating results, it may be indicative of a further decline in our fair value and may require us to record an impairment charge for a portion of goodwill and/or our indefinite-lived trade name. The credit agreement governing our committed line of credit requires us to maintain a ratio of earnings before interest and taxes to interest expense of 3.0 times, as measured quarterly on an aggregate basis for the preceding four quarters. Significant impairment charges in the future could impact our ability to comply with this debt covenant, in which case, our lenders could demand immediate repayment of amounts outstanding under our line of credit. Although we remained in compliance with this debt covenant throughout 2009, despite asset impairment charges of $24.9 million, we cannot provide definitive assurance regarding our continued compliance with this debt covenant. Our committed line of credit expires in July 2010. We expect that we will replace this line of credit well in advance of its expiration date. Any new line of credit agreement will likely contain revised debt covenants. Continued softness in direct mail response rates could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our Direct Checks segment and portions of our Small Business Services segment have, at times, experienced declines in response rates related to direct mail promotional materials. While we believe that media response rates have declined across a wide variety of products and services, we believe that declines we have experienced in the past are also attributable to the decline in check usage, the gradual obsolescence of standardized forms products and increasing utilization of e-commerce by both consumers and small businesses. In an attempt to offset these impacts, we continually modify our marketing and sales efforts and have recently shifted a greater portion of our advertising investment to the internet. Competitive pressure may inhibit our ability to reflect increased costs in the prices of our products and new marketing strategies may not be 15 Table of Contents successful. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to offset the decline in response rates, even with additional marketing and sales efforts. The inability to secure adequate advertising placements could have an adverse impact on our operating results. The profitability of our Direct Checks segment depends in large part on our ability to secure adequate advertising media placements at acceptable rates. We can provide no assurance regarding the future cost, effectiveness and/or availability of suitable advertising media. In addition, future legislation could affect our ability to advertise via direct mail or e-mail. Congress enacted a federal “Do Not Call” registry in response to consumer backlash against telemarketers and is contemplating enacting “anti-spam” legislation in response to consumer complaints about unsolicited e-mail advertisements. If anti-spam legislation is enacted and/or if similar legislation is enacted for direct mail advertisers, we may be unable to sustain our current levels of profitability. In addition to print advertising, many customers access our websites through internet search engines. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, but are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Purchased listings can be bought to attract users to our websites. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased listings to attract customers to our websites. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search results. If search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms, this could result in fewer customers going to our websites. Additionally, one or more search engine on which we rely for purchased listings could modify their policies in a manner which negatively impacts the effectiveness of our internet advertising. As we analyze our overall advertising strategy, we may have to resort to more costly resources to replace lost internet traffic, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the cost of purchased search engine listings could increase as demand for them continues to grow, and further cost increases could negatively affect our profitability. We face uncertainty regarding the success of recent and future acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results. During 2009, we acquired Abacus America, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aplus Holdings, Inc., as well as MerchEngines.com. During 2008, we acquired Hostopia.com Inc., PartnerUp, Inc., and Logo Design Mojo, Inc. These acquisitions were completed with the intention of increasing sales of higher growth business services. The integration of any acquisition involves numerous risks, including: difficulties in assimilating operations and products; failure to realize expected synergies; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; potential loss of key employees; potential exposure to unknown liabilities; and possible loss of our clients and customers or the clients and customers of the acquired businesses. One or more of these factors could impact our ability to successfully integrate an acquisition and could negatively affect our results of operations. In regard to future acquisitions, we cannot predict whether suitable acquisition candidates can be acquired on acceptable terms or whether any acquired products, technologies or businesses will contribute to our revenue or earnings to any material extent. Significant acquisitions typically result in additional contingent liabilities or debt and/or additional amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets, and thus, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The cost and availability of materials, delivery services and energy could adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to risks associated with the cost and availability of paper, plastics, ink, other raw materials, delivery services and energy. Postal rates increased in each of the last three years and fuel costs have fluctuated over the past several years. Additionally, there are relatively few paper suppliers. As such, when our suppliers increase paper prices, as they did in 2009, we may not be able to obtain better pricing from alternative suppliers. Competitive pressures and/or contractual arrangements may inhibit our ability to reflect increased costs in the price of our products. Paper costs represent a significant portion of our materials cost. Historically, we have not been negatively impacted by paper shortages because of our relationships with paper suppliers. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to purchase sufficient quantities of paper if such a shortage were to occur. Additionally, we depend upon third party providers for delivery services. Events resulting in the inability of these service providers to perform their obligations, such as extended labor strikes, could adversely impact our results of operations by requiring us to secure alternate providers at higher costs. 16 Table of Contents Security breaches involving customer data, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could adversely affect our reputation and business. We rely on various security procedures and systems to ensure the secure storage and transmission of data. Computer networks and the internet are, by nature, vulnerable to unauthorized access. An accidental or willful security breach could result in unauthorized access and/or use of customer data, including consumers’ nonpublic personal information. Our security measures could be breached by a third-party action, employee error or malfeasance, or design flaws in our systems could be exposed and exploited. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers’ data, our reputation could be damaged, clients and consumers could be deterred from ordering our products and services, and client contracts could be terminated. We could also be exposed to time-consuming and expensive litigation. If we are unsuccessful in defending a lawsuit regarding security breaches, we may be forced to pay damages which could have an adverse affect on our operating results. In addition, some states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity. If we were required to make such a disclosure, it may cause our clients and customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Likewise, general publicity regarding security breaches at other companies could lead to the perception among the general public that e-commerce is not secure. This could decrease traffic to our websites and foreclose future business opportunities. Interruptions to our website operations or information technology systems could damage our reputation and harm our business. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our information technology systems is critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. We could experience temporary interruptions in our websites, transaction processing systems, network infrastructure, printing production facilities or customer service operations for a variety of reasons, including human error, software errors, power loss, telecommunications failures, fire, flood, extreme weather and other events beyond our control. In addition, our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults which may cause our websites or operating systems to fail. The failure of our systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Declines in the equity markets could affect the value of our postretirement benefit plan assets, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. The fair value of the assets of our postretirement benefit plan is subject to various risks, including credit, interest and overall market volatility risks. During 2008, the equity markets experienced a significant decline in value, resulting in a significant decrease in the fair value of our plan assets. This materially affected the funded status of the plan and resulted in higher postretirement benefit expense in 2009. Although our obligation is limited to funding benefits as they become payable, declines in the fair value of these assets would result in further expense increases, as well as the need to contribute increased amounts of cash to fund benefits payable under the plan. We may be unable to maintain our licenses to use third party intellectual property on favorable terms, which would affect our ability to offer licensed products to our customers, and thus, adversely affect our operating results. Check designs licensed from third parties account for a portion of our revenue. These license agreements generally average three years in duration. There can be no guarantee that such licenses will be available to us indefinitely or under terms that would allow us to continue to sell the licensed products profitably, which would adversely impact our results of operations. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel and other qualified employees, our business could suffer. Our success at efforts to grow our business depends on the contributions and abilities of key employees, especially in the areas of sales, marketing and product management. If we are unable to retain our existing employees and attract qualified personnel, we may not be able to manage our business effectively. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our rights in intellectual property, which could harm our business and ability to compete. We rely on a combination of trademark and copyright laws, trade secret and patent protection, and confidentiality and license agreements to protect our trademarks, software and other intellectual property. These measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or otherwise independently develop substantially equivalent products and services which do not infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may be required to spend significant resources to protect our trade secrets and to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. If third party providers of certain significant information technology needs are unable to provide services, our business could be disrupted and the cost of such services could increase. We have entered into agreements with third party providers for information technology services, including telecommunications and network server and transaction processing services. In the event that one or more of these providers is not able to provide adequate or timely information technology services, we could be adversely affected. Although we believe that information technology services are available from numerous sources, a failure to perform by one or more of our service providers could cause a disruption in our business while we obtain an alternative source of supply. In addition, the use of substitute third party providers could result in increased expense. Legislation relating to consumer privacy protection could limit or harm our business. We are subject to regulations implementing the privacy and information security requirements of the federal financial modernization law known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other federal regulation and state law on the same subject. These laws and regulations require us to develop, implement and maintain policies and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of consumers’ nonpublic personal information. We are also subject to additional requirements in certain of our contracts with financial institution clients, which are often more restrictive than the regulations. These regulations and agreements limit our ability to use or disclose nonpublic personal information for other than the purposes originally intended, which could limit business opportunities. The complexity of compliance with these regulations may also increase the cost of doing business. We are unable to predict whether more restrictive legislation or regulation will be adopted in the future. Any future legislation or regulation, or the interpretation of existing legislation or regulation, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and prospects. Laws and regulations relating to consumer privacy may be adopted in the future with respect to the internet, e-commerce or marketing practices. Such laws or regulations may impede the growth of the internet and/or the use of other sales or marketing vehicles. For example, new privacy laws could decrease traffic to our websites, decrease telemarketing opportunities and increase the cost of obtaining new customers. A third party could assert that we are infringing its intellectual property, which could result in costly litigation or require us to obtain licenses. The e-commerce industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights, and by increasing litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert patent and other intellectual property infringement claims against us. These claims, whether successful or not, could divert management’s attention, result in costly and time-consuming litigation, require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, or require us to redesign our software or services to avoid infringement. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a third party’s patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain business activities. Consequently, third party intellectual property claims could result in increased expense or could limit our ability to generate revenue. We may be subject to sales and other taxes which could have an adverse effect on our business. In accordance with existing state and local tax laws, we currently collect sales, use or other similar taxes in state and local jurisdictions where we have a physical presence. One or more state or local jurisdiction may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies which engage in remote or online commerce. Further, tax law and the interpretation of constitutional limitations thereon is subject to change. In addition, any new operations in states where we do not currently have a physical presence could subject shipments of goods by our direct-to-consumer businesses into such states to sales tax under 18 Table of Contents current or future laws. If one or more state or local jurisdiction successfully asserts that we should have collected sales or other taxes in the past but did not, or that we must collect sales or other taxes in the future beyond our current practices, either determination could have a material, adverse affect on our business. We are subject to environmental risks which, if realized, could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Our printing facilities are subject to many federal and state regulations designed to protect the environment. We have sold former printing facilities to third parties, and in some instances, have agreed to indemnify the buyer of the facility for certain environmental liabilities. Unforeseen conditions at current or former facilities could result in additional liability and expense beyond our insurance coverage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 