Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by various risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. You should carefully consider all of these risks before making an investment in our common stock. 12 Weak economic conditions within the United States and globally could continue to have an adverse effect on our operating results and could result in additional impairment charges. For most of 2008, financial markets globally have experienced disruption, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that, among other concerns, include severely restricted credit. Largely as a result of these disruptions in financial markets, most analysts believe the global economy has entered a potentially prolonged recession. These economic developments may adversely affect businesses like ours in a number of ways, such as: • The rate of small business formations, small business confidence, consumer spending and employment levels, as well as energy costs, all have an impact on our businesses. Below average small business optimism and a decline in small business formations negatively impacted our results of operations in Small Business Services in 2008, and we expect this trend to continue, and possibly worsen, through 2009. Consumer spending and employment levels also trended negatively during 2008, resulting in some negative impact in our personal check businesses. A prolonged downturn in general economic conditions could result in additional declines in our revenue and profitability. • The failure of one or more of our larger financial institution clients, or large portions of our customer base, could adversely affect our operating results. In addition to the possibility of losing a significant contract, the inability to recover contract acquisition costs paid to one or more of our larger financial institution clients, or the inability to collect accounts receivable or contractually required contract termination payments from these financial institution clients, could have a significant negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. • There may be an increase in financial institution mergers and acquisitions during this period of economic uncertainty. Such an increase could adversely affect our operating results. Often the newly combined entity seeks to reduce costs by leveraging economies of scale in purchasing, including its check supply contracts. This results in check providers competing intensely on price in order to retain not only their previous business with one of the financial institutions, but also to gain the business of the other party in the merger/acquisition. Financial institution mergers and acquisitions can also impact the duration of our contracts. Normally, the length of our contracts with financial institutions ranges from three to five years. However, contracts are sometimes renegotiated or bought out mid-term due to a consolidation of financial institutions. • The effects of the recent economic downturn on our expected operating results and the broader U.S. market resulted in a significant reduction in our share price and led to asset impairment charges in 2008 related to trade names in our Small Business Services segment. Both before and after December 31, 2008, our common stock traded at prices lower than the December 31, 2008 closing stock price of $14.96. If such a decline in our stock price occurs in the future for a sustained period, it may be indicative of a further decline in our fair value and would likely require us to record an impairment charge for a portion of the $40.2 million of goodwill allocated to one of our reporting units. Accordingly, we believe that a non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to this reporting unit and/or further impairment charges related to our indefinite-lived trade name are reasonably possible in the future. This reporting unit had a calculated fair value which exceeded its carrying value by $2.7 million as of December 31, 2008 and our indefinite-lived trade name had a carrying value of $24.0 million as of December 31, 2008. The credit agreement governing our committed line of credit requires us to maintain a ratio of earnings before interest and taxes to interest expense of 3.0 times, as measured quarterly on an aggregate basis for the preceding four quarters. Significant impairment charges in the future could impact our ability to comply with this debt covenant, in which case, our lenders could demand immediate repayment of amounts outstanding under our line of credit. Although we would have remained in compliance with this debt covenant even if our reported pre-tax earnings for 2008 had been $52 million lower than we reported, we cannot provide definitive assurance regarding our continued compliance with this debt covenant. The severity and length of the present disruptions in the financial markets and recession in the global economy are unknown. There can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and in general business conditions. Our ability to reduce costs is critical to our success. The intense competition we face compels us to continually improve our operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve profitability. We intend to continue to reduce expenses, primarily within our shared services functions of fulfillment, information technology, real estate, finance, human resources and legal. We also expect to continue to simplify our business processes and reduce our cost and expense structure. These initiatives have required and will 13 continue to require up-front expenditures related to items such as redesigning and streamlining processes, consolidating information technology platforms, standardizing technology applications and improving real estate utilization. We can provide no assurance that we will achieve our anticipated cost reductions or that we will do so without incurring unexpected or greater than anticipated expenditures. Moreover, we may find that we are unable to achieve our business simplification and cost reduction goals without disruption to our business and, as a result, may choose to delay or forego certain cost reductions as business conditions require. Failure to meet our planned cost reduction targets would adversely affect our results of operations and could adversely affect our prospects if we are unable to remain competitive. We may not be successful at implementing our growth strategies within Small Business Services. We continue to execute strategies intended to drive sustained growth within Small Business Services. We are continuing to invest in several key enablers to achieve our strategies, including continuing to improve our e-commerce capabilities, implementing an integrated platform for our various brands, improving our customer analytics, focusing on key customer segments and improving our merchandising. We expect to drive growth as we obtain a greater portion of our revenue from higher growth annuity-based business services, including web hosting and other web services, business networking and payroll. All of these initiatives have required and will continue to require investment. Small Business Services revenue decreased in 2008, as compared to 2007, as the impact of economic conditions more than offset any favorability resulting from our growth strategies. We can provide no assurance that our growth strategies will be successful in the long-term and result in a positive return on our investment. Also, negative impacts resulting from the other risk factors described herein may offset or more than offset the benefit realized from our growth strategies. We face intense competition in all areas of our business. Although we are one of the leading check printers in the United States, we face considerable competition. In addition to competition from alternative payment methods, we also face intense competition from another check printer in our traditional financial institution sales channel, from direct mail sellers of personal checks, from sellers of business checks and forms, from check printing software vendors and from internet-based sellers of checks to individuals and small businesses. Additionally, low price, high volume office supply chain stores offer standardized business forms, checks and related products to small businesses. We also face intense competition with our business services offerings. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. Continued competition could result in additional price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of customers and an increase in up-front cash payments to financial institutions upon contract execution or renewal, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Small Business Services’ standardized business forms and related products face technological obsolescence and changing customer preferences. Continual technological improvements have provided small business customers with alternative means to enact and record business transactions. For example, because of the lower price and higher performance capabilities of personal computers and related printers, small businesses now have an alternate means to print many business forms. Additionally, electronic transaction systems and off-the-shelf business software applications have been designed to replace pre-printed business forms products. If small business preferences change rapidly and we are unable to develop new products and services with comparable profit margins, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The check printing portion of the payments industry is mature and, if check usage declines faster than expected, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Check printing is, and is expected to continue to be, an essential part of our business, representing 65.4% of our consolidated revenue in 2008. We sell checks for personal and small business use and believe that there will continue to be a substantial demand for these checks for the foreseeable future. However, the total number of checks written in the United States has been in decline since the mid-1990s. According to our estimates, the total number of checks written by individuals and small businesses is declining approximately four to six percent each year, although the declines were greater in 2008, we believe, due to the economic recession and instability in the financial services industry. We believe that the number of checks written will continue to decline due to the increasing use of alternative payment methods, including credit cards, debit cards, automated teller machines, direct deposit and electronic and other bill paying services. However, the rate and the extent to which alternative payment methods will achieve acceptance and replace checks, whether as a result of legislative developments, personal preference or otherwise, cannot be predicted with certainty. A surge in the popularity of any of these alternative payment 14 methods, or our inability to successfully offset the decline in check usage with other sources of revenue, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. Consolidation among financial institutions has, and may continue to, adversely affect the pricing of our products and may result in the loss of clients. The number of financial institutions has declined due to consolidation in the financial services industry. Margin pressures arise from such consolidation as merged entities seek to reduce costs by leveraging economies of scale, including their check supply contracts. The increase in general negotiating leverage possessed by such consolidated entities has resulted in contracts which are not as favorable to us as those historically negotiated with these clients, and in some cases, has resulted in the loss of clients to competitors. Although we devote considerable effort toward the development of a competitively-priced, high-quality suite of products and services for the financial services industry, there can be no assurance that significant financial institution clients will be retained or that the loss of a significant client can be offset through the addition of new clients or by expanded sales to our remaining clients. Continuing softness in direct mail response rates could have a further adverse impact on our operating results. Our Direct Checks segment and portions of our Small Business Services segment have experienced declines in response rates related to direct mail promotional materials. We believe that media response rates are declining across a wide variety of products and services. Additionally, we believe that our declines are attributable to the general decline in check usage and the gradual obsolescence of standardized forms products. In an attempt to offset these impacts, we continue to modify our marketing and sales efforts and have recently shifted a greater portion of our advertising investment to the internet. Competitive pressure may inhibit our ability to reflect increased costs in the prices of our products and new marketing strategies may not be successful. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to offset the decline in response rates, even with additional marketing and sales efforts. The inability to secure adequate advertising placements could have an adverse impact on our operating results. The profitability of our Direct Checks segment depends in large part on our ability to secure adequate advertising media placements at acceptable rates. We can provide no assurance regarding the future cost, effectiveness and/or availability of suitable advertising media. In addition, future legislation could affect our ability to advertise via direct mail. Congress enacted a federal “Do Not Call” registry in response to consumer backlash against telemarketers and is contemplating enacting “anti-spam” legislation in response to consumer complaints about unsolicited e-mail advertisements. If anti-spam legislation is enacted and/or if similar legislation is enacted for direct mail advertisers, we may be unable to sustain our current levels of profitability. In addition, many Direct Checks customers access our websites through internet search engines. During 2008, our results of operations were adversely affected by a dominant search engine’s decision to limit our internet advertising based upon its revised advertising policies. As we analyze our overall advertising strategy, we may have to resort to more costly resources to replace this internet traffic, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We face uncertainty with respect to recent and future acquisitions. During 2008, we acquired Hostopia.com Inc., PartnerUp, Inc., and Logo Design Mojo, Inc. with the intention of increasing sales of higher-growth annuity-based business services. The integration of any acquisition involves numerous risks, including: difficulties in assimilating operations and products; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; potential loss of key employees; potential exposure to unknown liabilities; and possible loss of our clients and customers or the clients and customers of the acquired businesses. One or more of these factors could impact our ability to successfully integrate an acquisition and could negatively affect our results of operations. In regard to future acquisitions, we cannot predict whether suitable acquisition candidates can be acquired on acceptable terms or whether any acquired products, technologies or businesses will contribute to our revenue or earnings to any material extent. Significant acquisitions typically result in additional contingent liabilities or debt and/or additional amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets, and thus, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Declines in the equity markets could affect the value of our postretirement benefit and pension plan assets, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. The assets of our postretirement benefit and pension plans are valued at fair value using quoted market prices. Investments, in general, are subject to various risks, including credit, interest and overall market volatility risks. During 2008, the equity markets saw a significant decline in value. As such, the fair values of our plan assets decreased significantly from December 31, 2007. This materially affected the funded status of the plans and will result in higher postretirement benefit expense in 2009. Although our obligation is limited to funding benefits as they become payable, continued declines in the fair value of these assets would result in further expense increases, as well as the need to contribute increased amounts of cash to fund benefits payable under the plans. The cost and availability of materials, delivery services and energy could adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to risks associated with the cost and availability of paper, plastics, ink, other raw materials, delivery services and energy. Postal rates increased in 2007 and 2008 and fuel costs have fluctuated over the past several years. Additionally, there are relatively few paper suppliers. As such, when our suppliers increase paper prices, as they have indicated will be the case in 2009, we may not be able to obtain better pricing from alternative suppliers. Competitive pressures and/or contractual arrangements may inhibit our ability to reflect increased costs in the price of our products. Paper costs represent a significant portion of our materials cost. Historically, we have not been negatively impacted by paper shortages because of our relationships with various paper suppliers. However, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to purchase sufficient quantities of paper if such a shortage were to occur. Additionally, we depend upon third party providers for delivery services. Events resulting in the inability of these service providers to perform their obligations, such as extended labor strikes, could adversely impact our results of operations by requiring us to secure alternate providers at higher costs. Forecasts involving future results reflect various assumptions that may prove to be incorrect. From time to time, we make predictions or forecasts regarding our future results, including, but not limited to, forecasts regarding estimated revenue, earnings per share or cash provided by operating activities. Any forecast regarding our future performance reflects various assumptions which are subject to significant uncertainties and, as a matter of course, may prove to be incorrect. Further, the achievement of any forecast depends on numerous factors which are beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that our performance will be consistent with any management forecasts or that the variation from such forecasts will not be material and adverse. You are cautioned not to base your entire analysis of our business and prospects upon isolated predictions, and are encouraged to use the entire mix of historical and forward-looking information made available by us, and other information affecting us and our products and services, including the factors discussed here. In addition, independent analysts periodically publish reports regarding our projected future performance. The methodologies we employ in arriving at our own internal projections and the approaches taken by independent analysts in making their estimates are likely different in many significant respects. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to advise analysts or the public markets of our views regarding the accuracy of the published estimates of independent analysts. If you are relying on these estimates, you should pursue your own investigation and analysis of their accuracy and the reasonableness of the assumptions on which they are based. Security breaches involving customer data, or the perception that e-commerce is not secure, could adversely affect our reputation and business. We rely on various security procedures and systems to ensure the secure storage and transmission of data. Computer networks and the internet are, by nature, vulnerable to unauthorized access. We cannot provide assurance that misuse of new technologies or advances in criminal capabilities will not compromise or breach our security procedures and systems resulting in unauthorized access and/or use of customer data, including consumers’ nonpublic personal information. A security breach could damage our reputation, deter clients and consumers from ordering our products and services, lead to the termination of client contracts and result in claims against us. If we are unsuccessful in defending a lawsuit regarding security breaches, we may be forced to pay damages which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, general publicity regarding security breaches at other companies could lead to the perception among the general public that e-commerce is not secure. This could decrease traffic to our websites and foreclose future business opportunities. 16 We may be unable to maintain our licenses to use third party intellectual property on favorable terms. Check designs exclusively licensed from third parties account for a portion of our revenue. These license agreements generally average three years in duration. There can be no guarantee that such licenses will be available to us indefinitely or under terms that would allow us to continue to sell the licensed products profitably, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Interruptions to our website operations or information technology systems could damage our reputation and harm our business. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our information technology systems are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. We could experience temporary interruptions in our websites, transaction processing systems, network infrastructure, printing production facilities or customer service operations for a variety of reasons, including human error, software errors, power loss, telecommunications failures, fire, flood, extreme weather and other events beyond our control. In addition, our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults which may cause our websites or operating systems to fail. The failure of our systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We may be unable to protect our rights in intellectual property. We rely on a combination of trademark and copyright laws, trade secret and patent protection, and confidentiality and license agreements to protect our trademarks, software and other intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or otherwise independently develop substantially equivalent products and services which do not infringe on our intellectual property rights. We may be required to spend significant resources to protect our trade secrets and to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. We are dependent upon third party providers for certain significant information technology needs. We have entered into agreements with third party providers for information technology services, including telecommunications and network server services. In the event that one or more of these providers is not able to provide adequate or timely information technology services, we could be adversely affected. Although we believe that information technology services are available from numerous sources, a failure to perform by one or more of our service providers could cause a disruption in our business while we obtain an alternative source of supply. In addition, the use of substitute third party providers could result in increased expense. Legislation relating to consumer privacy protection could limit or harm our business. We are subject to regulations implementing the privacy and information security requirements of the federal financial modernization law known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other federal regulation and state law on the same subject. These laws and regulations require us to develop, implement and maintain policies and procedures to protect the security and confidentiality of consumers’ nonpublic personal information. We are also subject to additional requirements in certain of our contracts with financial institution clients, which are often more restrictive than the regulations. These regulations and agreements limit our ability to use or disclose nonpublic personal information for other than the purposes originally intended. This could have the effect of limiting business opportunities. We are unable to predict whether more restrictive legislation or regulation will be adopted in the future. Any future legislation or regulation, or the interpretation of existing legislation or regulation, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and prospects. Laws and regulations may be adopted in the future with respect to the internet, e-commerce or marketing practices generally relating to consumer privacy. Such laws or regulations may impede the growth of the internet and/or use of other sales or marketing vehicles. For example, new privacy laws could decrease traffic to our websites, decrease telemarketing opportunities and increase the cost of obtaining new customers. 17 We may be subject to sales and other taxes which could have an adverse effect on our business. In accordance with existing state and local tax laws, we currently collect sales, use or other similar taxes in state and local jurisdictions where we have a physical presence. One or more state or local jurisdiction may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies which engage in remote or online commerce. Further, tax law and the interpretation of constitutional limitations thereon is subject to change. In addition, any new operations in states where we do not currently have a physical presence could subject shipments of goods by our direct-to-consumer businesses into such states to sales tax under current or future laws. If one or more state or local jurisdiction successfully asserts that we should have collected sales or other taxes in the past but did not, or that we must collect sales or other taxes in the future beyond our current practices, either determination could have a material, adverse affect on our business. We may be subject to environmental risks. Our printing facilities are subject to many federal and state regulations designed to protect the environment. We have sold former printing facilities to third parties, and in some instances, have agreed to indemnify the buyer of the facility for certain environmental liabilities. Unforeseen conditions at these facilities could result in additional liability and expense beyond our insurance coverage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 