Risk Factors The Company's financial performance and results may fluctuate widely due to volatile and unpredictable commodity prices. The Company's earnings are directly related to commodity prices, as revenues are derived from the sale of precious metals (gold and silver), zinc and copper. Gold prices, which have the greatest impact on the Company's financial performance, fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control, including central bank purchases and sales, producer hedging and de-hedging activities, expectations of inflation, investment demand, the relative exchange rate of the U.S. dollar with other major currencies, interest rates, global and regional demand, political and economic conditions, production costs in major gold-producing regions, speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold and changes in supply, including worldwide production levels. The aggregate effect of these factors is impossible to predict with accuracy. In addition, the price of gold has on occasion been subject to very rapid short-term changes because of speculative activities. Fluctuations in gold prices may materially adversely affect the Company's financial performance or results of operations. If the market price of gold falls below the Company's total cash costs per ounce of production at one or more of its projects at that time and remains so for any sustained period, the Company may experience losses and/or may curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration, development and mining activities at such projects or at other projects. In addition, such fluctuations may require changes to the mine plan. Also, the Company's decisions to proceed with the operations at its current mines were based on a market price of gold between $400 and $450 per ounce. If the market price of gold falls below these levels, the mines may be rendered uneconomic and production may be suspended. Also, the Company's evaluation of the Meliadine project acquisition was based on an assumption of a market price of gold of $950 per ounce and the evaluation of the La India project acquisition was based on an assumption of a market price of gold of $1,150 per ounce. If the market price of gold falls below these respective levels, future activity at the Meliadine project or the La India project may be rendered uneconomic and activities may be suspended. In addition, the Company's current mine plans are all based on a gold price of $1,500 per ounce and reserve and resource estimates are based on a gold price of $1,255 per ounce; if the price of gold falls below these levels the mine plans may have to be changed, which may result in reduced production, higher costs than anticipated or both and estimates of reserves and resources may have to be reduced. Further, the prices received from the sale of the Company's byproduct metals produced at its LaRonde mine (zinc, silver, lead and copper) and its Pinos Altos mine (silver) affect the Company's ability to meet its targets for total cash costs per ounce of gold produced. These byproduct metal prices fluctuate widely and are also affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control. The Company's policy and practice is not to sell forward its future gold production; however, under the Company's price risk management policy, approved by the Company's board of directors (the "Board"), the Company may review this practice on a project by project basis. See "Item 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Derivatives" for more details on the Company's use of derivative instruments. The Company occasionally uses derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of fluctuating byproduct metal prices; however, these measures may not be successful. The volatility of gold prices is illustrated in the following table which sets out, for the periods indicated, the high, low and average afternoon fixing prices for gold on the London Bullion Market (the "London P.M. Fix"). 2012 (to March 12 ) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 High price ($ per ounce) 1,781 1,895 1,421 1,212 1,011 841 Low price ($ per ounce) 1,598 1,319 1,058 810 712 608 Average price ($ per ounce) 1,698 1,572 1,125 972 872 695 On March 12, 2012, the London P.M. Fix was $1,698 per ounce of gold. The assumptions that underlie the estimate of future operating results and the strategies used to mitigate the effects of risks of metal prices are set out herein and in "Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Outlook – Gold Production Growth" of this Form 20-F. 6 AGNICO-EAGLE MINES LIMITED Table of Contents Based on 2012 production estimates, the approximate sensitivities of the Company's after-tax income to a 10% change in certain metal prices from 2011 market average prices are as follows: Income per share Gold $ 0.64 Silver $ 0.06 Zinc $ 0.02 Copper $ 0.01 Sensitivities of the Company's after-tax income to changes in metal prices will increase with increased production. The Company is largely dependent upon its mining and milling operations at its Meadowbank mine in Nunavut and at its LaRonde mine in Quebec, and any adverse condition affecting those operations may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company's operations at the Meadowbank mine accounted for approximately 27% of the Company's gold production and are expected to account for approximately 30% of the Company's gold production in 2012 (using 912,500 ounces, being the midpoint of the Company's production guidance range of 875,000-950,000 ounces). The LaRonde mine in the Abitibi region of northern Quebec accounted for approximately 12.6% of the Company's gold production in 2011 and is expected to account for approximately 17% of the Company's gold production in 2012. In 2011, gold production at the Meadowbank mine was approximately 90,000 ounces below the Company's expectation as a result of issues that included a fire that destroyed the minesite's kitchen facilities and above anticipated dilution. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company performed a full review of the Meadowbank mine's operation and updated the related life of mine plan. The review considered the exploration potential of the area, the current mineral reserves and resources, the projected operating costs in light of persistently high operating costs experienced since the commencement of commercial operations, metallurgical performance and gold price. The updated life of mine plan contemplates a shorter mine life and reduced reserves and resources and required the Company to incur a pre-tax asset impairment charge of $907.7 million. At the LaRonde mine, the Company is now extracting ore from below Level 245, which was previously referred to as the LaRonde mine extension. The depth of these operations, as well as the new infrastructure required to extract this deeper ore, could pose significant challenges to the Company such as geomechanical risks and ventilation and air conditioning requirements, which could result in difficulties and delays in achieving gold production objectives. Any adverse condition affecting mining or milling conditions at the Meadowbank or LaRonde mines could be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance and results of operations. The Company also anticipates using revenue generated by its operations at these mines to finance a substantial portion of its capital expenditures in 2012, including new projects at the Pinos Altos mine and the Meliadine and La India projects. The Kittila, Pinos Altos and Lapa mines commenced commercial production in 2009 and commercial production at the Creston Mascota deposit at Pinos Altos was achieved in the first quarter of 2011. However, unless the Company otherwise acquires significant gold-producing assets in other regions, the Company will continue to be dependent on its operations at the Meadowbank and LaRonde mines for a substantial portion of its gold production. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company's current exploration and development programs at the LaRonde or Meadowbank mines will result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves to replace and expand current mineral reserves. The Company may experience difficulties operating its Meadowbank mine and developing the Meliadine project as a result of their remote location. The Company's Meadowbank mine is located in the Kivalliq District of Nunavut in northern Canada, approximately 70 kilometres north of Baker Lake. The closest major city is Winnipeg, Manitoba, approximately 1,500 kilometres to the south. Though the Company constructed a 110-kilometre all-weather road from Baker Lake, which provides summer shipping access via Hudson Bay to the Meadowbank mine, the Company's operations will be constrained by the remoteness of the mine, particularly as the port of Baker Lake is only accessible approximately 2.5 months per year. Most of the materials that the Company requires for the operation of the Meadowbank mine must be transported through the 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 7 Table of Contents port of Baker Lake during this shipping season, which may be further truncated due to weather conditions. If the Company is unable to acquire and transport necessary supplies during this time, this may result in a slowdown or stoppage of operations at the Meadowbank mine. Furthermore, if major equipment fails, items necessary to replace or repair such equipment may have to be shipped through Baker Lake during this window. Failure to have available the necessary materials required for operations or to repair or replace malfunctioning equipment at the Meadowbank mine may require the slowdown or stoppage of operations. For example, the February 2011 fire at the Meadowbank Mine's kitchen facilities required the mine to be on reduced operations which resulted in reduced gold production at the mine. The Company's Meliadine project, 290 kilometres southeast of the Meadowbank mine, is also located in the Kivalliq District of Nunavut, approximately 25 kilometres northwest of the hamlet of Rankin Inlet on the west coast of Hudson Bay. Access to the property is by helicopter from Rankin Inlet year-round and by tracked vehicles overland on a winter road from approximately late December to mid-May. An all-weather access road between the project and Rankin Inlet is at the permitting stage. The Company's operations at the Meliadine project may be constrained by its remoteness and, prior to the completion of the all weather access road, lack of access if the winter road season is shortened by permit delays or unusually warm weather, or if construction of the all-weather road is delayed. Most of the materials that the Company requires to operate the advanced exploration program, and may require if it determines to build a mine in the future, must be transported through the port of Rankin Inlet during its six-week shipping season. If the Company cannot identify and procure suitable equipment and materials within a timeframe that permits transporting them to the project within this shipping season, this could result in delays and/or cost increases in the exploration program and, if the Company determines to build a mine, any construction or development on the property. The remoteness of the Meadowbank mine and Meliadine project also necessitates the use of fly-in/fly-out camps for the accommodation of site employees and contractors, which may have an impact on the Company's ability to attract and retain qualified mining, exploration and construction personnel. If the Company is unable to attract and retain sufficient personnel or sub-contractors on a timely basis, the Company's operations at the Meadowbank mine and future development plans at the Meliadine project may be adversely affected. The Company's recently opened mines, mine construction projects and expansion projects are subject to risks associated with new mine development, which may result in delays in the start-up of mining operations, delays in existing operations and unanticipated costs. The Company's production forecasts are based on full production being achieved at all of its mines, and the Company's ability to achieve and maintain full production rates at these mines is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Production from these mines in 2012 may be lower than anticipated if the anticipated full production rate cannot be achieved. The LaRonde mine extension, which commenced operation in late 2011, will be one of the deepest operations in the Western Hemisphere with an expected maximum depth of 3,110 metres. The operations of the LaRonde mine extension will rely on new infrastructure for hauling ore and materials to the surface, including a winze (or internal shaft) and a series of ramps linking mining deposits to the Penna Shaft that services current operations at the LaRonde mine. The depth of the operations could pose significant challenges to the Company such as geomechanical risks and ventilation and air conditioning requirements, which may result in difficulties and delays in achieving gold production objectives. The development of the Kittila and Pinos Altos mines requires the construction and operation of significant new underground mining operations. The construction and operation of underground mining facilities is subject to a number of risks, including unforeseen geological formations, implementation of new mining processes, delays in obtaining required construction, environmental or operating permits and engineering and mine design adjustments. 8 AGNICO-EAGLE MINES LIMITED Table of Contents If the Company experiences mining accidents or other adverse conditions, the Company's mining operations may yield less gold than indicated by its estimated gold production. The Company's gold production may fall below estimated levels as a result of mining accidents such as cave-ins, rock falls, rock bursts, pit wall failures, fires or flooding or as a result of other operational problems such as a failure of a production hoist, autoclave, filter press or semi-autogenous grinding ("SAG") mill. In addition, production may be reduced if, during the course of mining or processing, unfavourable weather conditions, ground conditions or seismic activity are encountered, ore grades are lower than expected, the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable than expected to mining or treatment, dilution increases, electrical power is interrupted or heap leach processing results in containment discharge. In seven of the last nine years, as a result of such adverse conditions, the Company has failed to meet production forecasts due to: a rock fall, production drilling challenges and lower than planned mill recoveries in 2003; higher than expected dilution in 2004; increased stress levels in a sill pillar requiring the temporary closure of production sublevels in 2005; and delays in the commissioning of the Goldex production hoist and the Kittila autoclave in 2008. In 2009, gold production was 492,972 ounces, down from the Company's initial estimate of 590,000 ounces, primarily as a result of delays in the commencement of production at the Kittila mine due to issues with the autoclave, at the Pinos Altos mine resulting from problems in commissioning the dry tailings filter presses and at the Lapa mine resulting from dilution issues. In 2010, gold production of 987,607 ounces was below the initial anticipated range of 1 million to 1.1 million ounces primarily as a result of lower throughput at the Meadowbank mine mill due to a bottleneck in the crushing circuit and because there were autoclave issues at the Kittila mine in the first half of the year. In 2011, gold production of 985,460 ounces was below the initial anticipated range of 1.13 to 1.23 million ounces primarily as a result of suspension of mining operations at the Goldex mine due to suspected rock subsidence in the hanging wall above the main orebody, a fire in the Meadowbank mine kitchen complex which negatively impacted production and lower than expected grades at the Meadowbank and LaRonde mines. Occurrences of this nature and other accidents, adverse conditions or operational problems in future years may result in the Company's failure to achieve current or future production estimates. The Company's total cash costs per ounce of gold production depend, in part, on external factors that are subject to fluctuation and, if such costs increase, some or all of the Company's activities may become unprofitable. The Company's total cash costs per ounce of gold are dependent on a number of factors, including the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar, Euro or Mexican peso, smelting and refining charges, production royalties, the price of gold and byproduct metals and the cost of inputs used in mining operations. At the LaRonde mine, the Company's total cash costs per ounce of production are primarily affected by the prices and production levels of byproduct zinc, silver and copper, the revenue from which is offset against the cost of gold production. Total cash costs per ounce from the Company's operations at the Pinos Altos mine are affected by the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Mexican peso and the price and production level of byproduct silver, the revenue from which is offset against the cost of gold production. Total cash costs per ounce from the Company's operations at its mines in Canada and the Kittila mine are affected by changes in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar and the Euro, respectively. Total cash costs per ounce at all of the Company's mines are also affected by the costs of inputs used in mining operations, including labour (including contractors), steel, chemical reagents and energy. All of these factors are beyond the Company's control. If the Company's total cash costs per ounce of gold rise above the market price of gold and remain so for any sustained period, the Company may experience losses and may curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration, development and mining activities. Total cash costs per ounce is not a recognized measure under US GAAP, and this data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. Management uses this generally accepted industry measure in evaluating operating performance and believes it to be a realistic indicator of such performance and useful in allowing year over year comparisons. The data also reflects the Company's ability to generate cash flow and operating income at various gold prices. This additional information should be considered together with other data prepared in accordance with US GAAP and is not necessarily indicative of operating costs or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with US GAAP. See "Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Results of Operations – Production Costs" for reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce and minesite costs per tonne to their closest US GAAP measure and "Note to Investors Concerning Certain Measures of Performance" for a discussion of these non-US GAAP measures. The Company may experience operational difficulties at its mines in Finland and Mexico. The Company's operations include a mine in Finland and a mine in northern Mexico. These operations are subject to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties that are different from those encountered at the Company's Canadian properties. These risks and uncertainties vary from country to country and may include: extreme 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 9 Table of Contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates; high rates of inflation; labour unrest; risks of war or civil unrest; expropriation and nationalization; renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licences, permits and contracts; illegal mining; corruption; restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation; hostage taking; and changing political conditions and currency controls. In addition, the Company must comply with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in Canada, the United States, Europe and Mexico, including export requirements, taxes, tariffs, import duties and other trade barriers, as well as health, safety and environmental requirements. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Finland or Mexico may adversely affect the Company's operations or profitability. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to matters including restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency controls or restrictions, currency remittance, income and other taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral rights applications and tenure could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. In addition, Finland and Mexico have significantly different laws and regulations than Canada and there exist cultural and language differences between these countries and Canada. Also, the Company faces challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographical distances, including the challenges of staffing and managing operations in several international locations and implementing appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. These challenges may divert management's attention to the detriment of the Company's operations in Canada. There can be no assurance that difficulties associated with the Company's foreign operations can be successfully managed. Mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates are only estimates and such estimates may not accurately reflect future mineral recovery. The figures for mineral reserves and mineral resources published by the Company are estimates and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery of gold will be realized. Mineral reserve and resource estimates are based on gold recoveries in small scale laboratory tests and may not be indicative of the mineralization in the entire orebody and the Company may not be able to achieve similar results in larger scale tests under on-site conditions or during production. The ore grade actually recovered by the Company may differ from the estimated grades of the mineral reserves and mineral resources. The estimates of mineral reserves and mineral resources have been determined based on assumed metal prices, foreign exchange rates and operating costs. For example, the Company has estimated proven and probable mineral reserves on all of its properties based on, among other things, a $1,255 per ounce gold price. Monthly average gold prices have been above $1,255 per ounce since September 2010; however, prior to that time, monthly average gold prices were below $1,255 per ounce. Prolonged declines in the market price of gold (or applicable byproduct metal prices) may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomical to recover and could materially reduce the Company's mineral reserves. Should such reductions occur, the Company may be required to take a material write-down of its investment in mining properties or delay or discontinue production or the development of new projects, resulting in increased net losses and reduced cash flow. Market price fluctuations of gold (or applicable byproduct metal prices), as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates, may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomical to recover and may ultimately result in a restatement of mineral resources. Short-term factors relating to the mineral reserve, such as the need for orderly development of orebodies or the processing of new or different grades, may impair the profitability of a mine in any particular accounting period. Mineral resource estimates for properties that have not commenced production or at deposits that have not yet been exploited are based, in most instances, on very limited and widely spaced drill hole information, which is not necessarily indicative of conditions between and around the drill holes. Accordingly, such mineral resource estimates may require revision as more drilling information becomes available or as actual production experience is gained. The Company may experience problems in executing acquisitions or managing and integrating any completed acquisitions with its existing operations. The Company regularly evaluates opportunities to acquire securities or assets of other mining businesses. Such acquisitions may be significant in size, may change the scale of the Company's business and may expose the Company to new geographic, political, operating, financial or geological risks. The Company's success in its acquisition activities depends on its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire them on acceptable terms and integrate their 10 AGNICO-EAGLE MINES LIMITED Table of Contents operations successfully with those of the Company. Any acquisition would be accompanied by risks, such as the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses; the potential disruption of the Company's ongoing business; the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company through the successful integration of acquired assets and businesses; the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; the impairment of relationships with employees, customers and contractors as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired assets and businesses. In addition, the Company may need additional capital to finance an acquisition. Debt financing related to any acquisition may expose the Company to the risks related to increased leverage, while equity financing may cause existing shareholders to suffer dilution. The Company is permitted under the terms of its unsecured revolving bank credit facility and its $600 million of guaranteed senior unsecured notes referred to under the heading "Item 4 Information on the Company – History and Development of the Company" to incur additional unsecured indebtedness, provided that it maintains certain financial ratios and meets financial condition covenants and, in the case of the bank credit facility, that it complies with certain covenants, including that no default under the bank credit facility has occurred and is continuing, or would occur as a result of the incurrence or assumption of such indebtedness, the terms of such indebtedness are no more onerous to the Company than those under the bank credit facility and such indebtedness does not require principal payments until at least 12 months following the then existing maturity date of the bank credit facility. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in overcoming these or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the U.S. dollar may adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company's operating results and cash flow are significantly affected by changes in the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate. All of the Company's revenues are earned in U.S. dollars but the majority of its operating costs at the LaRonde, Goldex, Lapa and Meadowbank mines, as well as the Meliadine project, are incurred in Canadian dollars. The U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate has fluctuated significantly over the last several years. From January 1, 2007 to January 1, 2012, the Noon Buying Rate fluctuated from a high of C$1.3000 per $1.00 to a low of C$0.9170 per $1.00. Historical fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate are not necessarily indicative of future exchange rate fluctuations. Based on the Company's anticipated 2012 after-tax operating results, a 10% change in the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate from the 2011 market average exchange rate would affect net income by approximately $0.30 per share. To attempt to mitigate its foreign exchange risk and minimize the impact of exchange rate movements on operating results and cash flow, the Company has periodically used foreign currency options and forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase Canadian dollars; however, there can be no assurance that these strategies will be effective. See "Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Outlook – Gold Production Growth" for a description of the assumptions underlying the sensitivity and the strategies used to mitigate the effects of risks. In addition, the majority of the Company's operating costs at the Kittila mine are incurred in Euros and a portion of operating costs at the Pinos Altos mine and exploration and development costs at the La India project are incurred in Mexican pesos. Each of these currencies has fluctuated significantly against the U.S. dollar over the past several years. There can be no assurance that the Company's foreign exchange derivatives strategies will be successful or that foreign exchange fluctuations will not materially adversely affect the Company's financial performance and results of operations. If the Company fails to comply with restrictive covenants in its debt instruments, the Company's ability to borrow under its unsecured revolving bank credit facility could be limited and the Company may then default under other debt agreements, which could harm the Company's business. The Company's unsecured revolving $1.2 billion bank credit facility limits, among other things, the Company's ability to permit the creation of certain liens, make investments in a business or carry on business unrelated to mining, dispose of the Company's material assets or, in certain circumstances, pay dividends. In addition, the Company's $600 million guaranteed senior unsecured notes limit, among other things, the Company's ability to permit the creation of certain liens, carry on business unrelated to mining or dispose of the Company's material assets. The bank credit facility and the guaranteed senior unsecured notes also require the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and meet financial condition covenants. Events beyond the Company's control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect the Company's ability to satisfy these covenants, which could result in a default under one of the bank credit facility or the notes. At March 12, 2012 there was approximately $320 million drawn under the bank credit facility, and the Company anticipates that it will continue to draw on the bank credit facility to fund part of the capital expenditures required in connection with its current development projects. If an event of default under the bank credit facility or the notes occurs, the Company would be unable to draw down further on the bank credit facility and the lenders 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 11 Table of Contents could elect to declare all principal amounts outstanding thereunder at such time, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and it could cause an event of default under the notes. An event of default under either the bank credit facility or the notes may also give rise to an event of default under existing and future debt agreements and, in such event, the Company may not have sufficient funds to repay amounts owing under such agreements. The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative, involves substantial expenditures and is frequently unsuccessful. The Company's profitability is significantly affected by the costs and results of its exploration and development programs. As mines have limited lives based on proven and probable mineral reserves, the Company actively seeks to replace and expand its mineral reserves, primarily through exploration and development as well as through strategic acquisitions. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Among the many uncertainties inherent in any gold exploration and development program are the location of economic orebodies, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities. Substantial expenditures are required to pursue such exploration and development activities. Assuming discovery of an economic orebody, depending on the type of mining operation involved, several years may elapse from the initial phases of drilling until commercial operations are commenced and during such time the economic feasibility of production may change. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company's current or future exploration and development programs will result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves to replace and expand current mineral reserves. The mining industry is highly competitive, and the Company may not be successful in competing for new mining properties. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim staking, leasing or other acquisitions in the areas where the Company contemplates conducting exploration activities. Many companies and individuals are engaged in the mining business, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities and long earnings records. The Company may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mining properties, as it must compete with these companies and individuals, some of which have greater financial resources and larger technical staff than the Company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully for new mining properties. The success of the Company is dependent on good relations with its employees and on its ability to attract and retain employees and key personnel. Production at the Company's mines and mine projects is dependent on the efforts of the Company's employees and contractors. The Company competes with mining and other companies on a global basis to attract and retain employees at all levels with appropriate technical skills and operating experience necessary to operate its mines. Relationships between the Company and its employees may be affected by changes in the scheme of labour relations that may be introduced by relevant government authorities in the jurisdictions that the Company operates. Changes in applicable legislation or in the relationship between the Company and its employees or contractors may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is also dependent on a number of key management personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of such key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company's ability to manage its operating, development, exploration and financing activities will depend in large part on the efforts of these individuals. The Company faces significant competition to attract and retain qualified personnel and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain such personnel. The Company may have difficulty financing its additional capital requirements for its planned mine construction, exploration and development. The sustaining capital required for operations (including potential expansions) and the development of the Meliadine and La India projects, and the exploration and development of the Company's properties, including continuing exploration and development projects in Quebec, Nunavut, Finland, Mexico and Nevada, will require substantial capital expenditures. The Company estimates that capital expenditures will be approximately $382.3 million in 2012 and $277.4 million in 2013. As at March 12, 2012, the Company had approximately $844.4 million available to be borrowed under its bank credit facility. Based on current funding available to the Company and expected cash from operations, the Company believes it has sufficient funds available to fund its projected capital expenditures for all of its current properties. However, if cash from 12 AGNICO-EAGLE MINES LIMITED Table of Contents operations is lower than expected or capital costs at these mines or projects exceed current estimates, or if the Company incurs major unanticipated expenses related to exploration, development or maintenance of its properties, or if advances from the bank credit facility are unavailable, the Company may be required to seek additional financing to maintain its capital expenditures at planned levels. In addition, the Company will have additional capital requirements to the extent that it decides to expand its present operations and exploration activities, construct additional mining and processing operations at any of its properties or take advantage of opportunities for acquisitions, joint ventures or other business opportunities that may arise. Additional financing may not be available when needed or, if available, the terms of such financing may not be favourable to the Company and, if raised by offering equity securities, or securities convertible into equity securities, any additional financing may involve substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Failure to obtain any financing necessary for the Company's capital expenditure plans may result in a delay or indefinite postponement of exploration, development or production on any or all of the Company's properties, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The continuing weakness in the global credit and capital markets could have a material adverse impact on the Company's liquidity and capital resources. The credit and capital markets experienced significant deterioration in 2008, including the failure of significant and established financial institutions in the United States and abroad, and continues to show weakness and volatility. These unprecedented disruptions in the credit and capital markets have negatively impacted the availability and terms of credit and capital. If uncertainties in these markets continue, or these markets deteriorate further, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, ability to raise capital and costs of capital. Failure to raise capital when needed or on reasonable terms may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the nature of the Company's mining operations, the Company may face liability, delays and increased production costs from environmental and industrial accidents and pollution, and the Company's insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy future claims against the Company. The business of gold mining is generally subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected rock formations, changes in the regulatory environment, cave-ins, rock bursts, rock falls, pit wall failures and flooding and gold bullion losses. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The Company carries insurance to protect itself against certain risks of mining and processing in amounts that it considers to be adequate but which may not provide adequate coverage in certain unforeseen circumstances. The Company may also become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or other hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it has elected not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons, or the Company may become subject to liabilities which exceed policy limits. In these circumstances, the Company may incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on its financial performance and results of operations. The Company's operations are subject to numerous laws and extensive government regulations which may cause a reduction in levels of production, delay or the prevention of the development of new mining properties or otherwise cause the Company to incur costs that adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company's mining and mineral processing operations and exploration activities are subject to the laws and regulations of federal, provincial, state and local governments in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations are extensive and govern prospecting, exploration, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health and safety, waste disposal, toxic substances, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Compliance with such laws and regulations increases the costs of planning, designing, drilling, developing, constructing, operating, closing, reclaiming and rehabilitating mines and other facilities. New laws or regulations, amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation or interpretation thereof could have a material adverse impact on the Company, cause a reduction in levels of production and delay or prevent the development of new mining properties. Title to the Company's properties may be uncertain and subject to risks. The acquisition of title to mineral properties is a very detailed and time-consuming process. Title to, and the area of, mineral concessions may be disputed. Although the Company believes it has taken reasonable measures to ensure proper 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 13 Table of Contents title to its properties, there is no guarantee that title to any of its properties will not be challenged or impaired. Third parties may have valid claims on underlying portions of the Company's interests, including prior unregistered liens, agreements, transfers or claims, including native land claims, and title may be affected by, among other things, undetected defects. In addition, although the Company believes that it has sufficient surface rights for its operations, the Company may be unable to operate its properties as permitted or to enforce its rights in respect of its properties. Increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and climate change issues may adversely affect the Company's operations. The Company operates in a number of jurisdictions in which regulatory requirements have been introduced or are being contemplated to monitor, report and/or reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Under the Copenhagen Accord, Canada has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 17%, relative to 2005 levels, by 2020, but this commitment is subject to future alignment with reduction targets and regulatory requirements in the United States. Canada is also considering new regulatory requirements to address greenhouse gas emissions. Similarly, the Province of Quebec is a member of the Western Climate Initiative and has passed legislation enabling the establishment of a greenhouse gas emissions registry, greenhouse gas reduction targets and a cap-and-trade system to achieve Quebec's commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, relative to 1990 levels, by 2020. The Company's operations in Quebec use primarily hydroelectric power and as a consequence are not large producers of greenhouse gases. The Meadowbank mine produces approximately 165,110 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year from its own production of electricity from diesel-power generation and it is expected that any mining operation at the Meliadine project would also produce some of its power from diesel-power generation. The Pinos Altos mine purchases electricity that is largely fossil-fuel generated. The Pinos Altos mine also generates electricity locally with a diesel-powered genset during "peak" periods. As a result, it is the Company's second highest greenhouse gas producer at 109,483 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. None of the Company's other operations emit more than 30,400 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per year. As a result, notwithstanding the ongoing uncertainty around the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, new regulatory requirements in respect of greenhouse gasses and the additional costs required to comply are not expected to have a material effect on the Company's operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to the risk of litigation, the causes and costs of which cannot be known. The Company is subject to litigation arising in the normal course of business and may be involved in disputes with other parties in the future which may result in litigation. The causes of potential future litigation cannot be known and may arise from, among other things, business activities, environmental laws, volatility in stock price or failure to comply with disclosure obligations, such as in the litigation referred to in note 21 to the Financial Statements contained in Item 18 hereof. The results of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty. If the Company is unable to resolve these disputes favourably, it may have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial performance, cash flow and results of operations. In the event of a dispute involving the foreign operations of the Company, the Company may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in Canada. The Company's ability to enforce its rights could have an adverse effect on its future cash flows, earnings, results of operations and financial condition. The use of derivative instruments for the Company's byproduct metal production may prevent gains from being realized from subsequent byproduct metal price increases. While the Company's general policy is not to sell forward its future gold production, the Company has used, and may in the future use, various byproduct metal derivative strategies, such as selling future contracts or purchasing put options. The Company continually evaluates the potential short- and long-term benefits of engaging in such derivative strategies based upon current market conditions. No assurance can be given, however, that the use of byproduct metal derivative strategies will benefit the Company in the future. There is a possibility that the Company could lock in forward deliveries at prices lower than the market price at the time of delivery. In addition, the Company could fail to produce enough byproduct metals to offset its forward delivery obligations, causing the Company to purchase the metal in the spot market at higher prices to fulfill its delivery obligations or, for cash settled contracts, make cash payments to counterparties in excess of byproduct revenue. If the Company is locked into a lower than market price forward contract or has to buy additional quantities at higher prices, its net income could be adversely affected. None of the current contracts establishing the byproduct metal derivatives positions qualified for hedge accounting treatment under US GAAP and therefore any year-end mark-to-market adjustments are recognized in the "Gain on derivative financial instruments" line item of the 14 AGNICO-EAGLE MINES LIMITED Table of Contents consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. See "Item 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Derivatives". The trading price for the Company's securities is volatile. The trading price of the Company's common shares and, consequently, the trading price of securities convertible into or exchangeable for the Company's common shares, have been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations which may result in losses to investors. The trading price of the Company's common shares and securities convertible into or exchangeable for common shares may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: •changes in the market price of gold or other byproduct metals the Company sells; •events affecting the economic situation in Canada, the United States and elsewhere; •trends in the mining industry and the markets in which the Company operates; •changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; •acquisitions and financings; •quarterly variations in operating results; •the operating and share price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; and •purchases or sales of large blocks of the Company's common shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable for the Company's common shares. Wide price swings are currently common in the markets on which the Company's securities trade. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of the Company's common shares and the securities convertible into or exchangeable for the Company's common shares regardless of the Company's operating performance. The Company may not be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX") requires an annual assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Section 404 of SOX also requires an annual attestation report by the Company's independent auditors addressing the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The Company has completed its Section 404 assessment and received the auditors' attestation as of December 31, 2011. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, the Company may not be able to conclude that it has effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of SOX. The Company's failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of SOX on an ongoing, timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of its financial statements, which in turn could harm the Company's business and negatively impact the trading price of its common shares and securities convertible or exchangeable for common shares. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company's operating results or cause it to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Future acquisitions of companies may provide the Company with challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls in its acquired operations. Acquired companies may not have disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those required by securities laws currently applicable to the Company. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that the Company's internal control over financial reporting will prevent misstatement due to error or fraud or will detect or uncover all control issues or instances of fraud, if any. The effectiveness of the Company's controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, as the Company continues to expand, the challenges involved in maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting will increase and will require that the Company continue to improve its internal control over financial reporting. Although the Company intends to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance, the Company cannot be certain that it will be successful in continuing to comply with Section 404 of SOX. Potential unenforceability of civil liabilities and judgments. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. A majority of the Company's directors and officers as well as the experts named in this Form 20-F are residents of Canada. Also, almost all of the Company's 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 15 Table of Contents assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to initiate a lawsuit within the United States against these non-U.S. residents, or to enforce U.S. judgments against the Company or these persons. The Company's Canadian counsel has advised the Company that a monetary judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws would likely be enforceable in Canada if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. The Company cannot provide assurance that this will be the case. It is less certain that an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. 