Risk Factors The Company is currently dependent upon its mining and milling operations at the LaRonde Mine and any adverse condition affecting those operations may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company's mining and milling operations at the LaRonde Mine currently account for all of the Company's gold production and will continue to account for all of its gold production in the future until additional properties are acquired or brought into production. Any adverse condition affecting mining or milling conditions at the LaRonde Mine could be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance and results of operations until such time as the condition is remedied. The Company also anticipates using revenue generated by its operations at the LaRonde Mine to finance a substantial portion of the capital expenditures required at its mine development projects. In addition, one of the Company's major development programs is the extension of the LaRonde Mine below Level 245, referred to as the LaRonde Mine extension. This program involves the construction of infrastructure at depth and extraction of ore from new zones and may present new or different challenges for the Company. Gold production of the LaRonde Mine above Level 245 has started to decline. While the Goldex mine project and the Kittila mine project are both expected to commence operations during 2008, production from these mines will be lower in their initial periods of operation and, if production is subject to unforeseen delays, may not occur until later years. In addition, production from these mine projects may be lower than anticipated. Unless the Company can successfully bring into production the Goldex, Kittila, Lapa, Pinos Altos or Meadowbank mine projects, the LaRonde Mine 4 extension, its other exploration properties, or otherwise acquire gold producing assets in 2008, the Company's results of operations will be adversely affected. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company's current exploration and development programs at the LaRonde Mine will result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves to replace and expand current mineral reserves at what is currently the Company's sole active mining operation. The Company's financial performance and results may fluctuate widely due to volatile and unpredictable commodity prices. The Company's earnings are directly related to commodity prices as revenues are derived from precious metals (gold and silver), zinc and copper. The Company's policy and practice is not to sell forward its future gold production; however, under the Company's Price Risk Management Policy, approved by the Company's board of directors (the "Board"), the Company may review this practice on a project by project basis. See "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Derivatives" for more details on the Company's use of derivative instruments. Gold prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control, including central bank sales, producer hedging activities, expectations of inflation, the relative exchange rate of the US dollar with other major currencies, global and regional demand, political and economic conditions, production costs in major gold producing regions and worldwide production levels. The aggregate effect of these factors is impossible to predict with accuracy. In addition, the price of gold has on occasion been subject to very rapid short-term changes because of speculative activities. Fluctuations in gold prices may materially adversely affect the Company's financial performance or results of operations. If the market price of gold falls below the Company's total cash costs of production at one or more of its projects at that time and remains so for any sustained period, the Company may experience losses and/or may curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration, development and mining activities at such projects or at other projects. Also, the Company's decisions to proceed with its current mine development projects have been based on a market price of gold between $400 and $450 per ounce. If the market price of gold falls below this level, the mine development projects may be rendered uneconomic and the development of the mine projects may be suspended or delayed. The prices received for the Company's byproducts (zinc, silver and copper) produced at its LaRonde Mine affect the Company's ability to meet its targets for total cash operating cost per ounce of gold produced. Byproduct prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control. The Company occasionally uses derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of fluctuating byproduct metal prices, however, these measures may not be successful. The volatility of gold prices is illustrated in the following table which sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low afternoon fixing prices for gold on the London Bullion Market (the "London P.M. Fix") and the average gold prices received by the Company. 2008 (to March 14) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 High price ($ per ounce) 1,004 841 730 538 454 417 Low price ($ per ounce) 847 608 517 411 375 323 Average price received ($ per ounce) 920 748 622 449 418 368 On March 14, 2008, the London P.M. Fix was $1,004 per ounce of gold. Based on 2008 production estimates, the approximate sensitivities of the Company's after-tax income to a 10% change in metal prices from 2007 market average prices are as follows: Income per share Gold $ 0.09 Zinc $ 0.07 Silver $ 0.02 Copper $ 0.02 5 The assumptions that underlie the estimate of future operating results and the strategies used to mitigate the effects of risks of metals price fluctuations are set out in "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Outlook — Gold Production Growth" of this Form 20-F. Sensitivities of the Company's after-tax income to changes in metal prices will increase with increased production. If the Company experiences mining accidents or other adverse conditions, the Company's mining operations may yield less gold than indicated by its estimated gold production. The Company's gold production may fall below estimated levels as a result of mining accidents such as cave-ins, rock falls, rock bursts, pit wall failures, fires or flooding or as a result of other operational problems such as a failure of the production hoist or the semi-autogenous grinding, or SAG, mill. In addition, production may be unexpectedly reduced if, during the course of mining, unfavourable ground conditions or seismic activity are encountered, ore grades are lower than expected, the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable than expected to mining or treatment or there is increased dilution. In three of the last five years, as a result of such adverse conditions, the Company has failed to meet production forecasts due to a rock fall, production drilling challenges and lower than planned mill recoveries in 2003, higher than expected dilution in 2004 and increased stress levels in a sill pillar requiring the temporary closure of production sublevels in 2005. Occurrences of this nature in future years may result in the Company's failure to achieve current or future production estimates. The Company may experience operational difficulties at its projects in Finland and Mexico. The Company's operations have been expanded to include mine construction projects in Finland and northern Mexico. These operations are exposed to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties that are different from those encountered at the Company's current operational base in Canada. These risks and uncertainties vary from country to country and may include: extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates; high rates of inflation; labour unrest; the risks of war or civil unrest; expropriation and nationalization; renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licences, permits and contracts; illegal mining; corruption; changes in taxation policies; restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation; hostage taking; and changing political conditions, currency controls and governmental regulations that favour or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. In addition, the Company will have to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in Canada, the United States, Europe and Mexico, including export requirements, taxes, tariffs, import duties and other trade barriers, as well as health, safety and environmental requirements. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Finland or Mexico may adversely affect the Company's operations or profitability. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to matters including restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income and other taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral right applications and tenure could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. In addition, the Company has no significant operating experience in Finland, Mexico or internationally. Finland and Mexico operate under significantly different laws and regulations and there exist cultural and language differences between these countries and Canada. Also, the Company will face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographical distances, including the challenges of staffing and managing operations in multiple locations and implementing appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. These challenges may divert management's attention to the detriment of the Company's operations in Quebec. There can be no assurance that difficulties associated with the Company's expanded foreign operations can be successfully managed. 6 The Company may experience problems in executing acquisitions or managing and integrating any completed acquisitions with its existing operations. The Company regularly evaluates opportunities to acquire shares or assets of other mining businesses. Such acquisitions may be significant in size, may change the scale of the Company's business, and may expose the Company to new geographic, political, operating, financial or geological risks. The Company's success in its acquisition activities depends on its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire them on acceptable terms and integrate their operations successfully with those of the Company. Any acquisition would be accompanied by risks, such as the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses; the potential disruption of the Company's ongoing business; the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company through the successful integration of acquired assets and businesses; the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; the impairment of relationships with employees, customers and contractors as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired assets and businesses. In addition, the Company may need additional capital to finance an acquisition. Debt financing related to any acquisition may expose the Company to the risks related to increased leverage, while equity financing may cause existing shareholders to suffer dilution. The Company is permitted under the terms of its new unsecured revolving bank credit facility to incur additional unsecured indebtedness provided that it complies with certain covenants, including, that no default under the credit facility has occurred and is continuing, or would occur as a result of the incurrence or assumption of such indebtedness, the terms of such indebtedness are no more onerous to the Company than those under the credit facility and such indebtedness does not require principal payments until at least 12 months following the then existing maturity date of the credit facility. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. The Company's mine construction projects are subject to risks associated with new mine development, which may result in delays in the start-up of mining operations, delays in existing operations and unanticipated costs. The Company commenced construction of the Goldex mine project in Quebec in 2005. The Company announced in June 2006 that it would initiate development of the LaRonde Mine extension, accelerate construction at the Lapa mine project in Quebec, and build the Kittila mine project in northern Finland. In April 2007, the Company acquired the development-stage Meadowbank mine project in Nunavut, Canada and in August 2007, the Company announced that it would build the Pinos Altos mine project in northern Mexico. The Company believes that, on completion, the LaRonde Mine extension will be one of the deepest operations in the Western Hemisphere with an expected maximum depth of 3,110 metres. The operations of the LaRonde Mine extension will rely on a series of new systems for the hauling of ore and materials to the surface, including a winze (or internal shaft) and series of ramps linking mining deposits to the Penna Shaft that services current operations at the LaRonde Mine. The depth of the operations could pose significant challenges to the Company such as managing geomechanical risks and ventilation and air conditioning requirements, which may result in difficulties and delays in achieving gold production objectives. The development of the LaRonde Mine extension and the Goldex, Lapa, Kittila and Pinos Altos mine projects require the construction of significant new underground mining operations. The construction of these underground mining facilities is subject to a number of risks, including unforeseen geological formations, implementation of new mining processes, delays in obtaining required construction, environmental or operating permits, and engineering and mine design adjustments. These risks may result in delays in the planned start up dates and in additional costs being incurred by the Company beyond those budgeted. Moreover, the construction activities at the LaRonde Mine extension will take place concurrently with normal mining operations at LaRonde, which may result in conflicts with, or possible delays to, existing mining operations. The Company may experience difficulties in developing or operating its recently acquired Meadowbank mine project as a result of the project's remote location. The Company's Meadowbank mine project is located in the Kivalliq District of Nunavut in northern Canada, approximately 70 kilometres north of Baker Lake. Though the Company has now substantially completed a 110 kilometre all-weather road from Baker Lake, which provides summer shipping access via 7 Hudson Bay, to the Meadowbank mine project, the Company's operations at the Meadowbank mine project will be constrained by the remoteness of the project, particularly as the port of Baker Lake is only accessible approximately 2.5 months per year. Some of the materials that the Company requires for the construction and operation of the Meadowbank mine project are currently in high demand due to the increased level of activity in the global mining industry and some of these items currently have extended order times. If the Company cannot identify and procure suitable equipment, within such timeframe as would permit transporting such equipment to the Meadowbank mine project, this may result in delays to the construction schedule of the Meadowbank mine project and may also delay the start-up of mining operations and/or increase estimated costs. The remoteness of the Meadowbank mine project also necessitates its operation as a fly-in/fly-out camp operation which may have an impact on the Company's ability to attract and retain qualified mining personnel. If the Company is unable to attract and retain sufficient personnel or sub-contractors on a timely basis, this may have an adverse effect on the Company's future development plans and operations at the Meadowbank mine project. The Company's total cash costs per ounce of gold production depend, in part, on external factors that are subject to fluctuation and, if such costs increase, some or all of the Company's activities may become unprofitable. The Company's total cash costs per ounce of gold are dependent on a number of factors, including, primarily, the prices and production levels of byproduct zinc, silver and copper, the revenue from which is offset against the cost of gold production, the US dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate, smelting and refining charges and production royalties, which are affected by all these factors and the gold price. Total cash costs per ounce from the Company's operations outside Canada will be affected by the exchange rates between the European Union Euro or the Mexican peso and the US dollar. All of these factors are beyond the Company's control. If the Company's total cash costs per ounce of gold rise above the market price of gold and remain so for any sustained period, the Company may experience losses and may curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration, development and mining activities. Total cash costs per ounce is not a recognized measure under US GAAP and this data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. Management uses this generally accepted industry measure in evaluating operating performance and believes it to be a realistic indication of such performance and useful in allowing year over year comparisons. The data also indicates the Company's ability to generate cash flow and operating income at various gold prices. This additional information should be considered together with other data prepared in accordance with US GAAP and is not necessarily indicative of operating costs or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with US GAAP. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — Production Costs" for reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce and minesite costs per tonne to figures presented in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The exploration of mineral properties is highly speculative, involves substantial expenditures and is frequently unproductive. The Company's profitability is significantly affected by the costs and results of its exploration and development programs. As mines have limited lives based on proven and probable mineral reserves, the Company actively seeks to replace and expand its reserves, primarily through exploration and development and through strategic acquisitions. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is unsuccessful. Among the many uncertainties inherent in any gold exploration and development program are the location of economic ore bodies, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities. In addition, substantial expenditures are required to pursue such exploration and development activities. Assuming discovery of an economic ore body, depending on the type of mining operation involved, several years may elapse from the initial phases of drilling until commercial operations are commenced and during such time the economic feasibility of production may change. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company's current exploration and development programs will result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new reserves to replace and expand current reserves. 8 Mineral reserve and mineral resource estimates are only estimates and such estimates may not accurately reflect future mineral recovery. The figures for mineral reserves and mineral resources published by the Company are estimates and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery of gold will be realized. The ore grade actually recovered by the Company may differ from the estimated grades of the mineral reserves and mineral resources. Such figures have been determined based on assumed metals prices, foreign exchange rates and operating costs. For example, the Company has estimated proven and probable mineral reserves based on, among other things, a $583 per ounce gold price. While monthly average gold prices have been above $583 per ounce since April 2006, for the five years prior to that, the market price of gold was, on average, below $583 per ounce. Prolonged declines in the market price of gold (or other applicable metals prices) may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of gold mineralization uneconomic to exploit and could materially reduce the Company's reserves. Should such reductions occur, the Company may be required to take a material write-down of its investment in mining properties or delay or discontinue production or the development of new projects, resulting in increased net losses and reduced cash flow. Market price fluctuations of gold (or other applicable metals prices), as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates, may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomical to recover and may ultimately result in a restatement of mineral resources. Short-term factors relating to the mineral reserve, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different grades, may impair the profitability of a mine in any particular accounting period. Mineral resource estimates for properties that have not commenced production are based, in most instances, on very limited and widely spaced drill hole information, which is not necessarily indicative of conditions between and around the drill holes. Accordingly, such mineral resource estimates may require revision as more drilling information becomes available or as actual production experience is gained. The Company may have difficulty financing its additional capital requirements for its planned mine construction, exploration and development. The exploration and development of the Company's properties, including continuing exploration and development projects in Quebec, Nunavut, Finland, Mexico and Nevada and the construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations at the LaRonde Mine extension and the Goldex, Kittila, Lapa, Pinos Altos and Meadowbank mine projects will require substantial capital expenditures. In addition, the Company will have further capital requirements to the extent that it decides to expand its present operations and exploration activities or construct additional new mining and processing operations at any of its properties or take advantage of opportunities for acquisitions, joint ventures or other business opportunities that may arise. Also, the Company may incur major unanticipated expenses related to exploration, development or mine construction or maintenance on its properties. Failure to obtain any financing necessary for the Company's capital expenditure plans may result in a delay or indefinite postponement of exploration, development or production on any or all of the Company's properties. Historically, the Company has financed its expenditures through a combination of offerings of equity and debt securities, bank borrowing and cash flow generated from operations at the LaRonde Mine, and the Company expects to use such sources of funds to finance its anticipated expenditures. However, additional financing may not be available when needed or, if available, the terms of such financing may not be favourable to the Company and, if raised by offering equity securities, any additional financing may involve substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Failure to raise capital when needed or on reasonable terms may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company fails to comply with restrictive covenants in its bank credit agreement, the Company's loan availability could be limited and the Company may be in default under other debt agreements, which could harm the Company's business. The Company's new unsecured $300 million revolving bank credit facility limits, among other things, the Company's ability to incur additional indebtedness, permit the creation of certain liens, make investments in a business, or carry on business, unrelated to mining, dispose of the Company's material assets or, in certain circumstances, pay dividends. Further, the bank credit facility requires the Company to maintain specified 9 financial ratios and meet financial condition covenants. Events beyond the Company's control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect the Company's ability to satisfy these covenants, which could result in a default under the bank credit facility. While there are currently no amounts of principal or interest owing under the bank credit facility, the Company anticipates that it will draw on the bank credit facility to fund part of the capital expenditures required in connection with its current development projects. If an event of default under the bank credit facility occurs, the Company would be unable to draw down on the facility, or if amounts were drawn down at the time of the default, the lenders could elect to declare all principal amounts outstanding thereunder at such time, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due. An event of default under the bank credit facility may also give rise to an event of default under existing and future debt agreements and, in such event, the Company may not have sufficient funds to repay amounts owing under such agreements. The mining industry is highly competitive and the Company may not be successful in competing for new mining properties. Many companies and individuals are engaged in the mining business, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities and long earnings records. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim staking, leasing or other acquisitions in the areas where the Company contemplates conducting exploration activities. The Company may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mining properties, as it must compete with these individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources and larger technical staff than the Company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully for new mining properties. Due to the nature of the Company's mining operations, the Company may face liability, delays and increased production costs from environmental and industrial accidents and pollution, and the Company's insurance coverage may prove inadequate to satisfy future claims against the Company. The business of gold mining is generally subject to risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected rock formations, changes in the regulatory environment, cave-ins, rock bursts, rock falls, pit wall failures and flooding and gold bullion losses. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The Company carries insurance to protect itself against certain risks of mining and processing in amounts that it considers to be adequate but which may not provide adequate coverage in certain unforeseen circumstances. The Company may also become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or other hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons, or the Company may become subject to liabilities which exceed policy limits. In these circumstances, the Company may be required to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on its financial performance and results of operations. The Company's operations are subject to numerous laws and extensive government regulations, which may cause a reduction in levels of production, delay or the prevention of the development of new mining properties or otherwise cause the Company to incur costs that adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company's mining and mineral processing operations and exploration activities are subject to the laws and regulations of federal, provincial, state and local governments in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations are extensive and govern prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health and safety, waste disposal, toxic substances, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Compliance with such laws and regulations increases the costs of planning, designing, drilling, developing, constructing, operating, closing, reclaiming and rehabilitating mines and other facilities. New laws or regulations, amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation or interpretation thereof could have a material adverse impact on the Company, cause a reduction in levels of production and delay or prevent the development of new mining properties. Under mine closure plans originally submitted to the Minister of Natural Resources in Quebec in 1996, the estimated reclamation costs for the LaRonde Mine and the adjacent Bousquet property are approximately $44 million and $3 million, respectively. Every five years mine closure plans must be amended to reflect any 10 changes in circumstances surrounding a property and resubmitted to the Minister of Natural Resources. These amended reclamation plans are subject to approval by the Minister of Natural Resources, and there can be no assurance that the Minister of Natural Resources will not impose additional reclamation obligations with attendant higher costs. In addition, the Minister of Natural Resources may require that the Company provide financial assurances to support such plans. At December 31, 2007, the Company had recorded an asset retirement obligation in its financial statements of $45 million, including $15.2 million allocated for the LaRonde Mine and $7.4 million allocated for the Bousquet property. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in relation to the US dollar may adversely affect the Company's results of operations. The Company's operating results and cash flow are significantly affected by changes in the US dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate. Exchange rate movements can have a significant impact as all of the Company's revenues are earned in US dollars but most of its operating costs and a substantial portion of its capital costs are in Canadian dollars. The US dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate has varied significantly over the last several years. During the period from January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2007, the Noon Buying Rate fluctuated from a high of $1.5750 to a low of $0.9059. Historical fluctuations in the US dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate are not necessarily indicative of future exchange rate fluctuations. Based on the Company's anticipated 2008 after-tax operating results, a 10% change in the US dollar/Canadian dollar exchange rate from the 2007 market average exchange rate would affect net income by approximately $0.11 per share. To attempt to mitigate its foreign exchange risk and minimize the impact of exchange rate movements on operating results and cash flow, the Company has periodically used foreign currency options and forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase Canadian dollars. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Outlook — Gold Production Growth" for a description of the assumptions underlying this sensitivity and the strategies used to mitigate the effects of risks. In addition, a significant portion of the Company's expenditures at the Kittila mine project and the Pinos Altos mine project will be denominated in European Union Euros and Mexican Pesos, respectively. Each of these currencies has varied significantly against the US dollar over the past several years. There can be no assurance that the Company's foreign exchange derivatives strategies will be successful or that foreign exchange fluctuations will not materially adversely affect the Company's financial performance and results of operations. The use of derivative instruments for the Company's byproduct metal production may prevent gains from being realized from subsequent byproduct metal price increases. While the Company's general policy is not to sell forward its future gold production, the Company has used, and may in the future use, various byproduct metal derivative strategies, such as selling future contracts or purchasing put options. The Company continually evaluates the potential short and long-term benefits of engaging in such derivative strategies based upon current market conditions. No assurance can be given, however, that the use of byproduct metal derivative strategies will benefit the Company in the future. There is a possibility that the Company could lock in forward deliveries at prices lower than the market price at the time of delivery. In addition, the Company could fail to produce enough byproduct metals to offset its forward delivery obligations, causing the Company to purchase the metal in the spot market at higher prices to fulfill its delivery obligations or, for cash settled contracts, make cash payments to counterparties in excess of byproduct revenue. If the Company is locked into a lower than market price forward contract or has to buy additional quantities at higher prices, its net income could be adversely affected. None of the current contracts establishing the byproduct metal derivatives positions qualified for hedge accounting treatment under US GAAP. See "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Derivatives". The trading price for Agnico-Eagle shares is volatile. The trading price of the Company's common shares has been and may continue to be subject to large fluctuations and, therefore, the trading price of securities convertible into or exchangeable for the Company's common shares may also fluctuate significantly, which may result in losses to investors. The trading price of the Company's common shares may increase or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: •current events affecting the economic situation in Canada, the United States and elsewhere; 11 •trends in the mining industry and the markets in which the Company operates; •changes in the market price of the commodities the Company sells; •changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; •acquisitions and financings; •quarterly variations in operating results; •the operating and share price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; and •purchases or sales of blocks of the Company's common shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable for the Company's common shares. Wide price swings are currently common in the stock market. This volatility may adversely affect the prices of the Company's common shares and the securities convertible into or exchangeable for the Company's common shares regardless of the Company's operating performance. The Company may not be able to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. In 2007, the Company documented and tested its internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX"). As of December 31, 2006, SOX requires an annual assessment by management of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, SOX also requires an annual attestation report by the Company's independent auditors addressing the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. The Company has successfully completed its Section 404 assessment and received the auditors' attestation as of December 31, 2007. If the Company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, the Company may not be able to ensure that it can conclude on an ongoing basis that it has effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of SOX. The Company's failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of SOX on an ongoing, timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of its financial statements, which in turn could harm the Company's business and negatively impact the trading price of its common shares. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company's operating results or cause it to fail to meet its reporting obligations. Future acquisitions of companies may provide the Company with challenges in implementing the required processes, procedures and controls in its acquired operations. Acquired companies may not have disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting that are as thorough or effective as those required by securities laws currently applicable to the Company. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that the Company's internal control over financial reporting will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the Company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of the Company's controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, as the Company continues to expand, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal controls over financial reporting will increase and will require that the Company continue to improve its internal control over financial reporting. Although the Company intends to devote substantial time and incur substantial costs, as necessary, to ensure ongoing compliance, the Company cannot be certain that it will be successful in continuing to comply with Section 404 of SOX. Potential unenforceability of civil liabilities and judgments. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. The majority of the Company's directors and officers and certain of the experts named in this Form 20-F are residents of Canada. Also, almost all of the Company's assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to initiate a lawsuit within the United States against these non-United States residents, or to enforce judgments in the United States against the Company or these persons which are obtained in a United States court. The Company's Canadian counsel has advised the Company that a monetary judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws would likely be enforceable in Canada if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. The Company cannot provide assurance that this will be the case. It is less certain that an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. 12 