Risk Factors Dependence on the LaRonde Division The Company's mining and milling operations at the LaRonde Division account for all of the Company's gold production and will continue to account for all of its gold production in the future unless additional properties are acquired or brought into production. Any adverse condition affecting mining or milling at the LaRonde Division could be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial performance and results of operations until such time as the condition is remedied. In addition, the Company's ongoing development of the LaRonde Mine involves the exploration and extraction of ore from new areas and may present new or different challenges for the Company. Based on current infrastructure, the LaRonde Mine has an estimated mine life of approximately seven years; however gold production at the LaRonde Mine is expected to begin to decline commencing in 2008. Unless the Company can successfully bring into production the Goldex property, the LaRonde II project, the Lapa property, the Suurikuusikko property, the Pinos Altos property or its other exploration properties or otherwise acquire gold producing assets prior to 2008, the Company's results of operations will be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the Company's current exploration and development programs at the LaRonde Division will result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves to replace and expand current mineral reserves. Metal Price Volatility The Company's earnings are directly related to commodity prices as revenues are derived from precious metals (gold and silver), zinc and copper. The Company's policy and practice is not to sell forward its future gold production; however, under the Company's Price Risk Management Policy, approved by its Board of Directors, the Company may review this practice on a project by project basis, making use of derivative instruments where appropriate to ensure an adequate return to shareholders on new projects. See "Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk — Derivatives" for more details of the Company's use of derivative instruments. Gold prices fluctuate widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control, including central bank sales, producer hedging activities, expectations of inflation, the relative exchange rate of the US dollar with other major currencies, global and regional demand and political and economic conditions, and production costs in major gold producing regions. The aggregate effect of these factors is impossible to predict with accuracy. Gold prices are also affected by worldwide production levels. In addition, the price of gold has on occasion been subject to very rapid short-term changes because of speculative activities. Fluctuations in gold prices may adversely affect the Company's financial performance or results of operations. If the market price of gold falls below the Company's total cash costs and remains at such a level for any sustained period, the Company may experience losses and may curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration, development and mining activities. The prices received for the Company's byproducts (zinc, silver and copper) affect the Company's ability to meet its targets for total cash cost per ounce of gold produced. Byproduct prices fluctuate 4 widely and are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control. The Company occasionally uses derivative instruments to mitigate the effects of fluctuating byproduct metal prices. The volatility of gold prices is illustrated in the following table which sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low afternoon fixing prices for gold on the London Bullion Market (the "London P.M. Fix") and the average gold prices received by the Company. 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 High price ($ per ounce) 538 454 417 350 293 Low price ($ per ounce) 411 375 323 278 256 Average price received ($ per ounce) 449 418 368 312 273 On March 20, 2006, the London P.M. Fix was $555.75 per ounce of gold. Based on 2006 production estimates, the approximate sensitivities of the Company's after-tax income to a 10% change in metal prices from 2005 market average prices are as follows: Income per share Gold $ 0.06 Zinc $ 0.04 Silver $ 0.03 Copper $ 0.02 Sensitivities of the Company's after-tax income to changes in metal prices will increase with increased production. Recent Losses Although the Company reported net income for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, it incurred net losses in 2003 and in each of the five years prior to 2002. For a discussion of the factors contributing to the financial performance of the Company, see "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects". The Company's profitability depends on the price of gold, gold production, total cash costs, the prices and production levels of byproduct zinc, silver and copper and other factors discussed in this section of the Form 20-F. Substantially all of these factors are beyond the Company's control and there can be no assurance that the Company will sustain profitability in the future. Uncertainty of Production Estimates The Company's gold production may fall below estimated levels as a result of mining accidents such as cave-ins, rock falls, rock bursts, fires or flooding. In addition, production may be unexpectedly reduced if, during the course of mining, unfavourable ground conditions or seismic activity are encountered, ore grades are lower than expected, or the physical or metallurgical characteristics of the ore are less amenable than expected to mining or treatment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve current or future production estimates. A rock fall that occurred in two production stopes during the first quarter of 2003 led to an initial 20% reduction in the Company's 2003 gold production estimate from 375,000 ounces to 300,000 ounces. Production drilling challenges and lower than planned recoveries in the mill in the third quarter of 2003 led to a further reduction in the production estimate by 21%. Final gold production in 2003 was 236,653 ounces. In 2004, higher than expected dilution in lower levels of the mine led to actual gold production for the year of 271,567 ounces, below the initial production estimate of 308,000 ounces. In the first quarter of 2005, increased stress levels in the sill pillar area below Level 194 required three production sublevels to be closed for rehabilitation for a period of six weeks. Production from these sublevels was delayed and replaced by ore extracted from the upper levels of the mine that have relatively lower gold content. The lower gold content of this ore, together with higher than budgeted dilution, resulted in actual gold production in 2005 being 241,807 ounces, approximately 38,000 ounces less than the Company's original forecast of 2005 production of 280,000 ounces. 5 Financing of Additional Capital Requirements The exploration and development of the Company's properties, including continuing exploration and development projects in the Abitibi region of Quebec and the recently acquired Suurikuusikko project in Finland and Pinos Altos project in Mexico and the construction of mining facilities and commencement of mining operations at the Goldex property will require substantial capital expenditure. In addition, the Company will have further capital requirements to the extent it decides to expand its present operations and exploration activities or construct new mining and processing operations at any of its properties or take advantage of opportunities for acquisitions, joint ventures or other business opportunities that may arise. Also, the Company may incur major unanticipated expenses related to exploration, development or mine construction or maintenance on its properties. Failure to obtain any financing necessary for the Company's capital expenditure plans may result in a delay or indefinite postponement of exploration, development or production on any or all of the Company's properties. Historically, the Company has financed its expenditures through a combination of offerings of equity and debt securities, bank borrowing and cash flow generated from operations at the LaRonde Mine and the Company expects to use such sources of funds to finance its anticipated expenditures. However, additional financing may not be available when needed or if available, the terms of such financing may not be favourable to the Company and, if raised by offering equity securities, any additional financing may involve substantial dilution to existing shareholders. Failure to raise capital when needed or on reasonable terms may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Cost of Exploration and Development Programs The Company's profitability is significantly affected by the costs and results of its exploration and development programs. As mines have limited lives based on proven and probable mineral reserves, the Company actively seeks to replace and expand its reserves, through exploration and development and, from time to time, through strategic acquisitions. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is unsuccessful. Among the many uncertainties inherent in any gold exploration and development program are the location of economic ore bodies, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities. In addition, substantial expenditures are required to pursue such exploration and development activities. Assuming discovery of an economic ore body, depending on the type of mining operation involved, several years may elapse from the initial phases of drilling until commercial operations are commenced and during such time the economic feasibility of production may change. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company's current exploration and development programs will result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new reserves to replace and expand current reserves. Total Cash Costs of Gold Production at the LaRonde Mine The Company's total cash costs to produce an ounce of gold are dependent on a number of factors, including primarily the prices and production levels of byproduct silver, zinc and copper, the revenue from which is offset against the cost of gold production, the Canadian dollar/US dollar exchange rate, smelting and refining charges and production royalties, which are affected by all of these factors and the gold price. All these factors are beyond the Company's control. Total cash cost per ounce is not a recognized measure under US GAAP and this data may not be comparable to data presented by other gold producers. Management uses this generally accepted industry measure in evaluating operating performance and believes it to be a realistic indication of such performance and useful in allowing year over year comparisons. The data also indicates the Company's ability to generate cash flow and operating income at various gold prices. This additional information should be considered together with other data prepared in accordance with US GAAP and is not necessarily indicative of operating costs or cash flow measures prepared in accordance with US GAAP. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — Production Costs" for reconciliation of total cash costs per ounce and minesite costs per tonne to their closest US GAAP measure. Risks of Acquisitions The Company regularly evaluates opportunities to acquire shares or assets of other mining businesses. Such acquisitions may be significant in size, may change the scale of the Company's business, and may expose the 6 Company to new geographic, political, operating, financial or geological risks. The Company's success in its acquisition activities depends on its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire them on acceptable terms and integrate their operations successfully with those of the Company. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks, such as the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses; the potential disruption of the Company's ongoing business; the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company through the successful integration of acquired assets and businesses; the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; the impairment of relationships with employees, customers and contractors as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired assets and businesses. In addition, the Company may need additional capital to finance an acquisition. Debt financing related to any acquisition may expose the Company to increased risk of leverage, while equity financing may cause existing shareholders to suffer dilution. The Company is permitted under the terms of its recently amended bank credit facility to raise additional debt financing provided that it complies with certain covenants including that no default under the credit facility has occurred and is continuing, the terms of such indebtedness are no more onerous to the Company than those under the credit facility and the incurrence of such indebtedness would not result in a material adverse change in respect of the Company, the LaRonde Mine or the Goldex mine project. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. Foreign Operations The Company's operations have recently been expanded to include advanced exploration projects in Finland and northern Mexico. These operations are exposed to various levels of political, economic and other risks and uncertainties that are different from those encountered at the Company's current operation base in Canada. These risks and uncertainties vary from country to country and include, but are not limited to, extreme fluctuations in currency exchange rates; high rates of inflation; labour unrest; the risks of war or civil unrest; expropriation and nationalization; renegotiation or nullification of existing concessions, licences, permits and contracts; illegal mining; corruption; changes in taxation policies; restrictions on foreign exchange and repatriation; hostage taking; and changing political conditions, currency controls and governmental regulations that favour or require the awarding of contracts to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. In addition, the Company will have to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting regulations in Canada, the United States, Europe and Mexico, including export requirements, taxes, tariffs, import duties and other trade barriers, as well as health and safety requirements. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in Finland or Mexico may adversely affect the Company's operations or profitability. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to matters including restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, income and other taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. Failure to comply strictly with applicable laws, regulations and local practices relating to mineral right applications and tenure could result in loss, reduction or expropriation of entitlements, or the imposition of additional local or foreign parties as joint venture partners with carried or other interests. In addition, the Company has no significant operating experience in Finland, Mexico or internationally. While the Company believes Finland and Mexico to be generally supportive of mining activity, these countries operate under significantly different laws and regulations and there exist cultural and language differences between these countries and Canada. Also, the Company will face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographical distances, including the challenges of staffing and managing operations in multiple locations and implementing appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs. These challenges may divert management's attention to the detriment of its operations in the Abitibi region of Quebec. There can be no assurance that difficulties associated with the Company's expanded foreign operations can be successfully managed. 7 Restrictions in the Bank Credit Facility The Company's recently amended $150 million revolving bank credit facility limits, among other things, the Company's ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make payments in respect of its common shares, make investments or loans, transfer the Company's assets, or make expenditures relating to property secured under the credit agreement that are inconsistent with the mine plan and operating budget delivered pursuant to the credit facility. Further, the bank credit facility requires the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and meet financial condition covenants. Events beyond the Company's control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, may affect the Company's ability to satisfy these covenants, which could result in a default under the bank credit facility. While there are currently no amounts of principal or interest owing under the bank credit facility, if an event of default under the bank credit facility occurs, the Company would be unable to draw down on the facility, or if amounts were drawn down at the time of the default, the lenders could elect to declare all principal amounts outstanding thereunder at such time, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable and to enforce their security interest over substantially all property relating to the LaRonde Mine, the El Coco property and the Goldex mine project. An event of default under the bank credit facility may also give rise to an event of default under existing and future debt agreements and, in such event, the Company may not have sufficient funds to repay amounts owing under such agreements. Competition for and Scarcity of Mineral Lands Many companies and individuals are engaged in the mining business, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities and long earnings records. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim staking, lease or other acquisition in the areas where the Company contemplates conducting exploration activities. The Company may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mining properties, as it must compete with these individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources and larger technical staffs than the Company. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully for new mining properties. Uncertainty of Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource Estimates The figures for mineral reserves and mineral resource presented herein are estimates, and no assurance can be given that the anticipated tonnages and grades will be achieved or that the indicated level of recovery of gold will be realized. The ore grade actually recovered by the Company may differ from the estimated grades of the mineral reserves and mineral resource. Such figures have been determined based on assumed gold prices and operating costs. The Company has estimated proven and probable mineral reserves based on a $405 per ounce gold price, which is the three-year average daily price. Gold prices have generally been above $405 per ounce since the beginning of 2004, however for the five years prior to that the market price of gold was generally below $405 per ounce. Based on the metals price and exchange rate assumptions used in the Company's 2006 production estimates, a 10% decrease in the gold price would result in an approximately 5% decrease on average in proven and probable gold reserves. Prolonged declines in the market price of gold may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of gold mineralization uneconomic to exploit and could materially reduce the Company's reserves. Should such reductions occur, the Company could be required to take a material write-down of its investment in mining properties or delay or discontinue production or the development of new projects, resulting in increased net losses and reduced cash flow. Market price fluctuations of gold, as well as increased production costs or reduced recovery rates, may render mineral reserves containing relatively lower grades of mineralization uneconomical to recover and may ultimately result in a restatement of mineral resources. Short-term factors relating to mineral reserves, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different grades, may impair the profitability of a mine in any particular accounting period. Mineral resource estimates for properties that have not commenced production are based, in most instances, on very limited and widely spaced drill hole information, which is not necessarily indicative of conditions between and around the drill holes. Accordingly, such mineral resource estimates may require revision as more drilling information becomes available or as actual production experience is gained. See "Note to Investors Regarding Estimates of Mineral Resources". 8 Mining Risks and Insurance The business of gold mining is generally subject to certain types of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, unusual or unexpected rock formations, changes in the regulatory environment, cave-ins, rock bursts, rock falls and flooding and gold bullion losses. Such occurrences could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in mining, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The Company carries insurance to protect itself against certain risks of mining and processing in amounts that it considers to be adequate but which may not provide adequate coverage in certain unforeseen circumstances. The Company may also become subject to liability for pollution, cave-ins or other hazards against which it cannot insure or against which it may elect not to insure because of high premium costs or other reasons or the Company may become subject to liabilities which exceed policy limits. In such case, the Company may be required to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect on its financial performance and results of operations. In the first quarter of 2004, two accidents claimed the lives of an employee and a contract miner. Quebec's Commission de la santé et de la sécurité du travail completed an investigation into these accidents, and the Company paid fines totalling C$27,500 in respect of these accidents. In January 2005, an accident claimed the life of an employee. The Commission de la santé et de la sécurité du travail has ruled that the accident was due to human error, and the Company expects no fines or further sanctions in respect of this accident. Laws and Regulations The Company's mining and mineral processing operations and exploration activities are subject to the laws and regulations of federal, provincial, state and local governments in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These laws and regulations are extensive and govern prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupational health and safety, waste disposal, toxic substances, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Compliance with such laws and regulations increases the costs of planning, designing, drilling, developing, constructing, operating, closing, reclaiming and rehabilitating mines and other facilities. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation or interpretation thereof could have a material adverse impact on the Company, cause a reduction in levels of production and delay or prevent the development of new mining properties. In January 2003, the Company received a notice of infraction from the Quebec Ministry of the Environment in connection with a controlled discharge of water of excess toxicity, which was carried out over a three-month period in the summer of 2002. The purpose of the discharge was to establish favourable construction conditions for the increase of tailings pond capacity in the autumn of 2002. No fine was payable in respect of the notice of infraction, however, the notice required production of a report detailing the causes of algae proliferation at the LaRonde Mine, which was delivered in 2003. In March 2005, the Company received a further notice of infraction in connection with a controlled discharge made under a federal transitional discharge permit during the third and fourth quarters of 2004. In September 2005, the Company received a notice of infraction relating to excess daphnia toxicity and exceeding the permitted average monthly concentration of suspended solids in the polishing pond. The Ministry has indicated that no fines or other sanctions will be imposed on the Company in connection with these notices of infraction. Under mine closure plans submitted to, and accepted by, the Minister of Natural Resources in Quebec (the "MNR"), the estimated reclamation costs for the LaRonde Division and the Bousquet property are approximately $18 million and $3 million respectively. Every five years mine closure plans must be amended to reflect any changes in circumstances surrounding a property and resubmitted to the MNR. These amended reclamation plans are subject to approval by the MNR and there can be no assurance that the MNR will not impose additional reclamation obligations with attendant higher costs. In addition, the MNR may require that the Company provide financial assurances to support such plans. At December 31, 2005, the Company had an asset retirement obligation of $12.6 million, with $6.4 million allocated for the LaRonde Division and $6.2 million allocated for Bousquet. Prior to January 1, 2003, reclamation costs were accrued on an undiscounted unit-of-production basis, using proven and probable reserves as the base. On this basis, the Company recorded its annual reclamation provision for the LaRonde Division at approximately $5 per ounce of gold produced. Effective January 1, 2003, the 9 Company adopted the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 143 relating to asset retirement obligations, which applies to long-lived assets such as mines. This standard requires companies to recognize the present value of reclamation costs as a liability in the period in which the legal obligation is incurred. The application of the new provisions resulted in the Company recording a one-time, net of tax, non-cash charge of $1.7 million on January 1, 2003 reflecting the cumulative effect of adopting this standard. Currency Fluctuations The Company's operating results and cash flow are significantly affected by changes in the Canadian dollar/US dollar exchange rate. Exchange rate movements can have a significant impact as all of the Company's revenues are earned in US dollars but most of its operating and capital costs are in Canadian dollars. The Canadian dollar/US dollar exchange rate has varied significantly over the last several years. During the period from January 1, 2001 to December 31, 2005, the Noon Buying Rate fluctuated from a high of C$1.6128 per $1.00 to a low of C$1.1507 per $1.00. Historical fluctuations in the Canadian dollar/US dollar exchange rate are not necessarily indicative of future exchange rate fluctuations. Based on the Company's anticipated 2006 after-tax operating results, a 10% change in the average annual Canadian dollar/US dollar exchange rate would affect net income by approximately $0.09 per share. To mitigate its foreign exchange risk and minimize the impact of exchange rate movements on operating results and cash flow, the Company has periodically used foreign currency options and forward foreign exchange contracts to purchase Canadian dollars. In addition, the Company's expenditures at the Suurikuusikko project and the Pinos Altos project will be denominated in Euros and Mexican Pesos, respectively. Each of these currencies has varied significantly against the US dollar over the past several years. There can be no assurance that the Company's foreign exchange derivatives strategies will be successful or that foreign exchange fluctuations will not materially adversely affect the Company's financial performance and results of operations. Interest Rate Fluctuations Fluctuations in interest rates can affect the Company's results of operations and cash flows. While the Company's recently redeemed 4.50% convertible subordinated debentures due 2012 were issued at a fixed rate of interest (though swapped for variable rate payments), the Company's bank debt and cash balances are subject to variable interest rates and thus are subject to risks inherent with interest rate fluctuations. Potential Unenforceability of Civil Liabilities and Judgments in the United States The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. All but one of the Company's directors and officers and certain of the experts named in this Form 20-F are residents of countries other than the United States. Also, almost all of the Company's assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for shareholders to initiate a lawsuit within the United States against these non-United States residents, or to enforce judgments in the United States against the Company or these persons that are obtained in a United States court. The Company's Canadian counsel has advised the Company that a monetary judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws would likely be enforceable in Canada if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had a basis for jurisdiction in the matter that was recognized by a Canadian court for such purposes. The Company cannot assure you that this will be the case. It is less certain that an action could be brought in Canada in the first instance on the basis of liability predicated solely upon such laws. 