Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Report includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, Comerica may make other written and oral communications from time to time that contain such statements. All statements regarding Comerica’s expected financial position, strategies and growth prospects and general economic conditions Comerica expects to exist in the future are forward-looking statements. The words, “anticipates,” “believes,” “feels,” “expects,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “strives,” “plans,” “intends,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “position,” “target,” “mission,” “assume,” “achievable,” “potential,” “strategy,” “goal,” “aspiration,” “outcome,” “continue,” “remain,” “maintain,” “trend,” “objective” and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” “might,” “can,” “may” or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Comerica cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement is made, and Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements and future results could differ materially from historical performance. In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this Report or previously disclosed in Comerica’s SEC reports (accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov or on Comerica’s website at www.comerica.com), the factors contained below, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance. • General political, economic or industry conditions, either domestically or internationally, may be less favorable than expected. Local, domestic, and international economic, political and industry specific conditions affect the financial services industry, directly and indirectly. Conditions such as or related to inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, international conflicts and other factors, such as real estate values, energy costs, fuel prices and government spending and the U.S. national debt, outside of our control may, directly and indirectly, adversely affect Comerica. As has been the case with impact of recent economic conditions, economic downturns could result in the delinquency of outstanding loans, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s earnings. 16 Table of Contents • Governmental monetary and fiscal policies may adversely affect the financial services industry, and therefore impact Comerica’s financial condition and results of operations. Monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the Federal Reserve Board, affect the financial services industry, directly and indirectly. The Federal Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its monetary and fiscal policies determine in a large part Comerica’s cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on such loans and investments. Changes in such policies, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the value of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Changes in monetary and fiscal policies are beyond Comerica’s control and difficult to predict. Comerica’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted by changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies. • Volatility and disruptions in global capital and credit markets may adversely impact Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Global capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit Comerica’s ability to access capital and manage liquidity, which may adversely affect Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, Comerica’s customers may be adversely impacted by such conditions, which could have a negative impact on Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations. • The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Comerica. Comerica’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Comerica has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led, and may further lead, to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions could expose Comerica to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, Comerica’s credit risk may be impacted when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to Comerica. There is no assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect, possible materially in nature, Comerica. • Changes in regulation or oversight, including actions recently taken or proposed by the United States Department of Treasury, the Texas Department of Banking, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve Bank or other governmental entities, may have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s operations. Comerica is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the United States Department of Treasury, the Texas Department of Banking, the FDIC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which Comerica may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on Comerica’s operations, investigations and limitations related to Comerica’s securities, the classification of Comerica’s assets and determination of the level of Comerica’s allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents In particular, Congress and other regulators have recently increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry: On May 20, 2009, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009, which extended the temporary increase in the standard maximum deposit insurance amount provided by the FDIC to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2013, was signed into law. This extension of the temporary $250,000 coverage limit (pursuant to the EESA) became effective immediately upon the President’s signature. During the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC levied an industry-wide special assessment charge on insured financial institutions as part of the agency’s efforts to rebuild DIF. In November 2009, the FDIC amended regulations that required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010-2012. The prepaid assessments will be applied against future quarterly assessments (as they may be so revised) until the prepaid assessment is exhausted or the balance of the prepayment is returned, whichever occurs first. The FDIC is not precluded from changing assessment rates or from further revising the risk-based assessment system during the prepayment period or thereafter. Thus, we may also be required to pay significantly higher FDIC insurance assessments premiums in the future because market developments significantly depleted DIF and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Comerica’s participation in the TAGP required the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC through June 30, 2010, in addition to the FDIC’s regular and special assessments. Additionally, in July 2010, the Financial Reform Act reinstated, for all financial institutions, unlimited deposit insurance on noninterest-bearing accounts for the period from December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012. In November 2009, the Federal Reserve adopted amendments to its Regulation E that were effective on July 1, 2010. The changes affect the circumstances when Comerica is able to charge its clients overdraft fees. On January 14, 2010, the current administration announced a proposal to impose a fee (the “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee”) on those financial institutions that benefited from recent actions taken by the U.S. government to stabilize the financial system. If implemented as initially proposed, the Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee will be applied to firms with over $50 billion in consolidated assets, and, therefore, by its terms would apply to Comerica. On February 14, 2011, the administration included a revised Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee in its proposed fiscal 2012 budget. On July 21, 2010, the Financial Reform Act was signed into law. The Financial Reform Act implements a variety of far-reaching changes and has been called the most sweeping reform of the financial services industry since the 1930s. Many of the provisions of the Financial Reform Act will directly affect Comerica’s ability to conduct its business, including, but not limited to: • Creation of a financial stability oversight council that may recommend to the Federal Reserve Board increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity; • Application of the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, such as Comerica, which, among other things, will, after a three-year phase-in period which begins January 1, 2013, remove trust preferred securities as a permitted component of a holding company’s Tier 1 capital; • Increases in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more, such as Comerica Bank, and increases the minimum reserve ratio for the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35%; 18 Table of Contents • Repeal of the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts; • Establishment of a consumer financial protection bureau with broad authority to implement new consumer protection regulations and, for bank holding companies with $10 billion or more in assets, to examine and enforce compliance with federal consumer laws; and • Amendment of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA) to, among other things, give the Federal Reserve Board the authority to issue rules which are expected to limit debit-card interchange fees. Many provisions in the Financial Reform Act remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. In December 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the Basel Committee) released proposed Basel III guidance on bank capital and liquidity. In September 2010, the Basel Committee proposed higher global minimum capital standards, including a minimum Tier 1 common capital ratio and additional capital and liquidity requirements, with rules expected to be implemented between 2013 and 2019. Adoption in the U.S. is expected to occur over a similar timeframe, but the final form of the U.S. rules is uncertain. The effects of such recently enacted legislation and regulatory actions on Comerica cannot reliably be determined at this time. Moreover, as some of the legislation and regulatory actions previously implemented in response to the recent financial crisis expire, the impact of the conclusion of these programs on the financial sector and on the economic recovery is unknown. Any delay in the economic recovery or a worsening of current financial market conditions could adversely affect Comerica. We can neither predict when or whether future regulatory or legislative reforms will be enacted nor what their contents will be. The impact of any future legislation or regulatory actions on Comerica’s businesses or operations cannot be reliably determined at this time, and such impact may adversely affect Comerica. • Unfavorable developments concerning credit quality could adversely affect Comerica’s financial results. Although Comerica regularly reviews credit exposure related to its customers and various industry sectors in which it has business relationships, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Under such circumstances, Comerica could experience an increase in the level of provision for credit losses, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and reserve for credit losses, which could adversely affect Comerica’s financial results. • Comerica’s proposed acquisition of Sterling Bancshares, Inc. may present certain risks to Comerica’s business and operations. On January 16, 2011, Comerica and Sterling entered into a merger agreement providing for the acquisition of Sterling by Comerica. The proposed acquisition presents the following risks, among others: • the possibility that expected benefits may not materialize in the timeframe expected or at all, or may be more costly to achieve; • that the transaction may not be timely completed, if at all; • that prior to the completion of the transaction or thereafter, Comerica’s and Sterling’s respective businesses may not perform as expected due to transaction-related uncertainty or other factors; • that the parties are unable to successfully implement integration strategies, due to challenges associated with integrating complex systems, technology, banking centers, and other assets of 19 Table of Contents Sterling in a manner that minimizes any adverse effect on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies and integrating Sterling’s workforce while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; • that required regulatory, shareholder or other approvals, including the approval of the Federal Reserve Board and the approval of Sterling shareholders, are not obtained or other closing conditions are not satisfied in a timely manner or at all; • reputational risks and the reaction of the companies’ customers to the transaction; and • whether or not completed, the proposed acquisition may require diversion of the attention of Comerica’s management and other key employees from ongoing business activities, including the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to Comerica. • Comerica may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements. As discussed above, the Financial Reform Act creates a financial stability oversight council that may recommend to the Federal Reserve increasingly strict rules for capital requirements as companies grow in size and complexity and applies the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, which, among other things, will, after a three-year phase-in period which begins January 1, 2013, remove trust preferred securities as a permitted component of a holding company’s Tier 1 capital. These requirements, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect Comerica’s ability to pay dividends, or could require Comerica to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. In addition, on September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III. When fully phased in, Basel III will introduce a minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and establish a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets above the regulatory minimum capital requirement, establishing a minimum common equity ratio plus capital conservation buffer at 7%. This capital conservation buffer will impose capital distribution constraints when the Tier 1 capital ratio falls under 8.5% and the total capital ratio falls under 10.5%. In addition, Basel III introduces a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other loss absorbing capital above the regulatory capital minimum plus the capital conservation buffer for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The Basel III capital and liquidity standards will be phased in over a period of several years. The text of the final Basel III capital and liquidity rules was published on December 16, 2010, and is now subject to individual adoption by member nations, including the United States. Banking regulators could implement changes to the capital adequacy standards applicable to Comerica and Comerica Bank in light of Basel III. The ultimate impact of the new capital and liquidity standards cannot be determined at this time and will depend on a number of factors, including treatment and implementation by the U.S. banking regulators. • Problems faced by residential real estate developers could adversely impact Comerica. Problems in the United States’ residential real estate development industry, specifically in Michigan (Midwest market) and both northern and southern California (Western market), have materially and adversely impacted Comerica in recent periods. Recent economic conditions have resulted in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, has adversely affected the development and construction 20 Table of Contents efforts of residential real estate developers. Consequently, the ability of such residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans has been adversely affected. These problems facing residential real estate developers have had, and the continuation or worsening of such problems may have, a material and adverse impact on the financial results of Comerica. • Businesses or industries in which Comerica has lending concentrations, including, but not limited to, the automotive production industry and the real estate business, could suffer a significant decline which could adversely affect Comerica. Comerica’s business customer base consists, in part, of lending concentrations in volatile businesses and industries such as the automotive production industry and the real estate business. Recent economic conditions have significantly impacted such businesses, which has adversely affected Comerica. In the event of further decline in any one of those customers’ businesses or industries, Comerica could experience increased credit losses, and its business could be materially adversely affected. • The introduction, implementation, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies, including, but not limited to, the opening of new banking centers, may be less successful or may be different than anticipated, which could adversely affect Comerica’s business. Comerica makes certain projections and develops plans and strategies for its banking and financial products. If Comerica does not accurately determine demand for its banking and financial product needs, it could result in Comerica incurring significant expenses without the anticipated increases in revenue, which could result in a material adverse effect on its business. • Utilization of technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market and deliver new products and services. The financial services industry experiences rapid technological change with regular introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The efficient and effective utilization of technology enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Comerica’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to market and deliver products and services that will satisfy customer demands and create additional efficiencies in Comerica’s operations. Comerica may not be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s financial condition and results of operations. • Operational difficulties or information security problems could adversely affect Comerica’s business and operations. Comerica is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from computer or telecommunications systems malfunctions. Comerica may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to Comerica. In addition there is the risk that Comerica’s controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such occurrences or failures could materially and adversely affect Comerica’s business and operations by exposing it to potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention. 21 Table of Contents • Changes in the financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on deposit pricing, could adversely affect Comerica’s net interest income and balance sheet. The operations of financial institutions such as Comerica are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions, the trade, fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the policies of various regulatory agencies all affect market rates of interest and the availability and cost of credit, which in turn significantly affect financial institutions’ net interest income. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as federal government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions. Comerica’s financial results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in financial market conditions. • Competitive product and pricing pressures among financial institutions within Comerica’s markets may change. Comerica operates in a very competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of other financial institutions in each market in which it operates. Comerica competes with large national and regional financial institutions and with smaller financial institutions in terms of products and pricing. If Comerica is unable to compete effectively in products and pricing in its markets, business could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations. • Changes in customer behavior may adversely impact Comerica’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Comerica uses a variety of financial tools, models and other methods to anticipate customer behavior as a part of its strategic planning and to meet certain regulatory requirements. Individual, economic, political, industry-specific conditions and other factors outside of Comerica’s control, such as fuel prices, energy costs, real estate values or other factors that affect customer income levels, could alter predicted customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices. Such a change in these practices could materially adversely affect Comerica’s ability to anticipate business needs and meet regulatory requirements. Current economic conditions have negatively affected consumer confidence levels. A worsening of these conditions would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Comerica, Comerica’s customers and others in the financial institutions industry. • Management’s ability to maintain and expand customer relationships may differ from expectations. The financial services industry is very competitive. Comerica not only vies for business opportunities with new customers, but also competes to maintain and expand the relationships it has with its existing customers. While management believes that it can continue to grow many of these relationships, Comerica will continue to experience pressures to maintain these relationships as its competitors attempt to capture its customers. Failure to create new customer relationships and to maintain and expand existing customer relationships to the extent anticipated may adversely impact Comerica’s earnings. • Management’s ability to retain key officers and employees may change. Comerica’s future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of its executive officers and key personnel. Comerica’s future operating results also depend in significant part upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, financial, technical, marketing, sales and support personnel. 22 Table of Contents Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and Comerica cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. Comerica’s ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it may be increasingly difficult for Comerica to hire personnel over time. Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of its key employees, or Comerica’s inability to attract and retain skilled employees. On February 7, 2011, the Board of Directors of the FDIC approved a joint proposed rulemaking to implement Section 956 of the Financial Reform Act. Although the FDIC Board acted on the proposal on February 7, 2011, the proposal is a joint rule making by the five federal members of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FDIC, FRS, OCC, Office of Thrift Supervision and National Credit Union Administration), the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, who must each independently approve the proposed rule before it is published in the Federal Register for comment. Section 956 prohibits incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions and are deemed to be excessive, or that may lead to material losses. Consistent with the Financial Reform Act, the proposed rule does not apply to banks with total consolidated assets of less than $1 billion, and contains heightened standards for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, which includes Comerica. For these larger institutions, the rule requires that at least 50 percent of incentive-based payments be deferred for a minimum of three years for designated executives. Moreover, boards of directors of these larger institutions must identify employees who individually have the ability to expose the institution to substantial risk, and must determine that the incentive compensation for these employees appropriately balances risk and rewards according to enumerated standards. • Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters with respect to the financial services industry, including those directly involving Comerica and its subsidiaries, could adversely affect Comerica or the financial services industry in general. Comerica has been, and may in the future be, subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and there can be no assurance that Comerica will prevail in any proceeding or litigation. Any such matter could result in substantial cost and diversion of Comerica’s efforts, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on Comerica’s financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such matters could result in actions by Comerica’s regulators that could materially adversely affect Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations. • Methods of reducing risk exposures might not be effective. Instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of credit, market and liquidity, operational, compliance, business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. As a result, Comerica may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s business, financial condition or results of operations. • Terrorist activities or other hostilities may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and Comerica. Terrorist attacks or other hostilities may disrupt Comerica’s operations or those of its customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm Comerica’s operations. Any of these events could increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets, which could harm 23 Table of Contents Comerica’s stock price and may limit the capital resources available to Comerica and its customers. This could have a material adverse impact on Comerica’s operating results, revenues and costs and may result in increased volatility in the market price of Comerica’s common stock. • Catastrophic events, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires and floods, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and Comerica. Comerica has significant operations and a significant customer base in California, Texas, Florida and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and floods. These types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, Comerica’s business and customers and have posed physical risks to Comerica’s property. A significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect Comerica’s operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. The executive offices of Comerica are located in the Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, Dallas, Texas 75201. Comerica Bank leases five floors of the building, plus an additional 34,238 square feet on the building’s lower level, from an unaffiliated third party. The lease for such space used by Comerica and its subsidiaries extends through September 2023. Comerica and its subsidiaries also currently lease 11 floors in the Comerica Tower at One Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. Such space is leased through Comerica Bank from an unaffiliated third party. The leases at that building extend through January 2012. Comerica is renovating its owned building at 411 W. Lafayette, Detroit, Michigan as its new Michigan headquarters and the majority of its employees at Comerica Tower will be relocated to that building. As of December 31, 2010, Comerica, through its banking affiliates, operated a total of 511 banking centers, trust services locations, and loan production or other financial services offices, primarily in the States of Texas, Michigan, California, Florida and Arizona. Of these offices, 222 were owned and 289 were leased. As of December 31, 2010, affiliates also operated from leased spaces in Denver, Colorado; Wilmington, Delaware; Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois; Boston and Waltham, Massachusetts; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Princeton and Sea Girt, New Jersey; Las Vegas, Nevada; New York, New York; Rocky Mount and Cary, North Carolina; Granville, Ohio; Memphis, Tennessee; Reston, Virginia; Bellevue and Seattle, Washington; Monterrey, Mexico; Toronto, Ontario, Canada and Windsor, Ontario, Canada. Comerica and its subsidiaries own, among other properties, a check processing center in Livonia, Michigan, a 10-story building in the central business district of Detroit, Michigan that houses certain departments of Comerica and Comerica Bank, and three buildings in Auburn Hills, Michigan, used mainly for lending functions and operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Comerica and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to various pending or threatened legal proceedings arising out of the normal course of business or operations. Comerica believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it in its currently outstanding legal proceedings and, with respect to such legal proceedings, intends to continue to defend itself vigorously, litigating or settling cases according to management’s judgment as to what is in the best interests of Comerica and its shareholders. On at least a quarterly basis, Comerica assesses its liabilities and contingencies in connection with outstanding legal proceedings utilizing the latest information available. On a case-by-case basis, reserves are established for those legal claims for which it is probable that a loss will be incurred and the amount of such loss can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving these claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts 24 Table of Contents reserved. Based on current knowledge, and after consultation with legal counsel, management believes that current reserves are adequate, and the amount of any incremental liability arising from these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on Comerica’s consolidated financial condition. The damages alleged by plaintiffs or claimants may be overstated, unsubstantiated by legal theory, unsupported by the facts, and/or bear no relation to the ultimate award that a court, jury or agency might impose. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, Comerica cannot state with confidence a range of reasonably possible losses, nor what the eventual outcome of these matters will be. However, based on current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel, management believes the maximum amount of reasonably possible losses would not have a material adverse effect on Comerica’s consolidated financial condition. Item 4. (Removed and Reserved). PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information and Holders of Common Stock The common stock of Comerica Incorporated is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE Trading Symbol: CMA). At February 17, 2011, there were approximately 12,167 record holders of Comerica’s common stock. Sales Prices and Dividends Quarterly cash dividends were declared during 2010 and 2009 totaling $0.25 and $0.20 per common share per year, respectively. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices per share of Comerica’s common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions Tape for all quarters of 2010 and 2009, as well as dividend information. Quarter High Low Dividends PerShare Dividend Yield* 2010 Fourth $ 43.44 $ 34.43 $ 0.10 1.0 % Third 40.21 33.11 0.05 0.5 Second 45.85 35.44 0.05 0.5 First 39.36 29.68 0.05 0.6 2009 Fourth $ 32.30 $ 26.49 $ 0.05 0.7 % Third 31.83 19.94 0.05 0.8 Second 26.47 16.03 0.05 0.9 First 21.20 11.72 0.05 1.2 * Dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the quarterly dividend per share and dividing by an average of the high and low price in the quarter. 25 Table of Contents Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans As of December 31, 2010 Plan Category Number ofsecurities to beissued uponexercise ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights(a) Weighted-averageexercise price ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights(b) Number ofsecurities remainingavailable for futureissuance underequity compensationplans (excludingsecurities reflectedin column(a))(c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1) 18,929,599 $ 48.40 7,474,605 (2)(3) Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(4) 100,000 $ 56.71 0 Total 19,029,599 $ 48.44 7,474,605 (1) Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per share, issued under the Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1991 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, and the Imperial Bank Stock Option Plan (assumed by Comerica in connection with its acquisition of Imperial Bank). Does not include 85,437 restricted stock units equivalent to shares of common stock issued under the Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors and outstanding as of December 31, 2010, or 1,816,336 shares of restricted stock issued under Comerica’s Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and outstanding as of December 31, 2010. There are no shares available for future issuances under any of these plans other than the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Comerica’s Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors was approved by the shareholders on May 18, 2004. The 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (currently known as the Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan) was approved by Comerica’s shareholders on May 16, 2006, its amendment and restatement was approved by Comerica’s shareholders on April 27, 2010 and its further amendment and restatement was approved by Comerica’s Board of Directors on February 22, 2011. (2) Does not include shares of common stock purchased or available for purchase by employees under the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or contributed or available for contribution by Comerica on behalf of the employees. The Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan was ratified and approved by the shareholders on May 18, 2004. Five million shares of Comerica’s common stock have been registered for sale or awards to employees under the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December 31, 2010, 1,834,456 shares had been purchased by or contributed on behalf of employees, leaving 3,165,544 shares available for future sale or awards. If these shares available for future sale or awards under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan were included, the number shown in column (c) would be 10,640,149. (3) These shares are available for future issuance under Comerica’s Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan in the form of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards and other stock-based awards and under the Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors in the form of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other equity-based awards. Under the Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, not more than a total of 4.7 million shares may be used for awards other than options and stock appreciation rights and not more than one million shares are available as incentive stock options. Further, no award recipient may 26 Table of Contents receive more than 350,000 shares during any calendar year, and the maximum number of shares underlying awards of options and stock appreciation rights that may be granted to an award recipient in any calendar year is 350,000. (4) Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per share, issued under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (terminated March 2004). Most of the equity awards made by Comerica during 2010 were granted under the shareholder-approved Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Plans not approved by Comerica’s shareholders include: Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (Terminated March 2004)—Under the plan, Comerica granted options to acquire up to 450,000 shares of common stock, subject to equitable adjustment upon the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends or recapitalizations. After each annual meeting of shareholders, each member of the Board of Directors of a subsidiary bank of Comerica who was not an employee of Comerica or of any of its subsidiaries nor a director of Comerica (the “Eligible Directors”) automatically was granted an option to purchase 2,500 shares of the common stock of Comerica. Option grants under the plan were in addition to annual retainers, meeting fees and other compensation payable to Eligible Directors in connection with their services as directors. The plan is administered by a committee of the Board of Directors. With respect to the automatic grants, the committee does not and did not have discretion as to matters such as the selection of directors to whom options will be granted, the timing of grants, the number of shares to become subject to each option grant, the exercise price of options, or the periods of time during which any option may be exercised. In addition to the automatic grants, the committee could grant options to the Eligible Directors in its discretion. The exercise price of each option granted was the fair market value of each share of common stock subject to the option on the date the option was granted. The exercise price is payable in full upon exercise of the option and may be paid in cash or by delivery of previously owned shares. The committee may change the option price per share following a corporate reorganization or recapitalization so that the aggregate option price for all shares subject to each outstanding option prior to the change is equivalent to the aggregate option price for all shares or other securities into which option shares have been converted or which have been substituted for option shares. The term of each option cannot be more than ten years. This plan was terminated by the Board of Directors on March 23, 2004. Accordingly, no new options may be granted under this plan. Director Deferred Compensation Plans—Comerica maintains two deferred compensation plans for non-employee directors of Comerica, its subsidiaries and its advisory boards: the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the “Common Stock Deferral Plan”) and the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the “Mutual Fund Deferral Plan”). The Common Stock Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of common stock of Comerica, while the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, the shares of certain mutual funds offered under such plan. The Common Stock Deferral Plan previously provided for the mandatory deferral of 50% of the annual retainer of each director of Comerica into shares of common stock of Comerica, but currently has no mandatory deferral. Until the mandatory deferral requirement was discontinued, directors could voluntarily defer the remaining 50% of their director fees (and all other non-employee directors of Comerica’s subsidiaries could choose to defer up to 100% of their director fees) under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan, or a combination of the two plans. Currently, all eligible non-employee directors may defer any portion or none of their director fees under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan, or a combination of the two plans. 27 Table of Contents The directors’ accounts under the Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased to the extent of dividends paid on Comerica common stock to reflect the number of additional shares of Comerica’s common stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of common stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding stock units in the directors’ accounts. Similarly, the directors’ accounts under the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on the mutual fund shares to reflect the number of additional shares of mutual fund shares that could have been purchased had the dividends or other distributions been paid on each share of stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding mutual fund units in the directors’ accounts. Following the applicable deferral period, the distribution of a participant’s Comerica stock unit account under the Common Stock Deferral Plan is made in Comerica’s common stock (with fractional shares being paid in cash), while the distribution of a participant’s mutual fund account under the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan is made in cash. Employee Deferred Compensation Plans—Comerica maintains two deferred compensation plans for eligible employees of Comerica and its subsidiaries: the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock Deferred Incentive Award Plan (the “Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan”) and the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (the “Employee Fund Plan”). Under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan, eligible employees may defer specified portions of their incentive awards into units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of common stock of Comerica. The employees’ accounts under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on Comerica’s common stock to reflect the number of additional shares of Comerica’s common stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of common stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding stock units in the employees’ accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan is payable in shares of Comerica’s common stock following termination of service as an employee. Similarly, under the Employee Fund Plan, eligible employees may defer specified portions of their compensation, including salary, bonus and incentive awards, into units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of certain mutual funds offered under the Employee Fund Plan. Beginning in 1999, no such funds are Comerica stock funds. The employees’ accounts under the Employee Fund Plan are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on the fund shares to reflect the number of additional shares of the fund stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of fund stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding stock units in the employees’ accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Fund Plan is payable in cash following termination of service as an employee. For additional information regarding Comerica’s equity compensation plans, please refer to Note 17 on pages 121 through 123 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010. 28 Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers On November 16, 2010, the Board of Directors of Comerica authorized the purchase of up to 12,576,281 shares of its outstanding common stock, as well as outstanding warrants to purchase up to 11,479,592 shares of Comerica’s common stock. There is no expiration date for Comerica’s repurchase program. The repurchase program superseded Comerica’s previous repurchase programs approved on November 13, 2007 and November 14, 2006, each of which authorized the repurchase of 10 million shares. Comerica made no open market repurchases of its common stock or warrants to purchase its common stock under its repurchase programs in the years ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 or December 31, 2008. The following table summarizes Comerica’s monthly repurchase activity during the quarter ended December 31, 2010. Month Ended Total NumberofSharesPurchased(1) Average PricePaid Per Share Total NumberofShares andWarrantsPurchased asPart of PubliclyAnnouncedPlans orPrograms MaximumNumberof Shares andWarrants thatMay Yet BePurchasedUnderthe Plans orPrograms October 31, 2010 500 $ 37.11 — 12,576,281 November 30, 2010 200 $ 37.27 — 24,055,873 December 31, 2010 93 $ 40.77 — 24,055,873 Total 793 $ 37.58 — (1) Consists of shares purchased pursuant to deferred compensation plans and shares purchased from employees to pay for grant prices and/or taxes related to stock option exercises and restricted stock vesting under the terms of an employee share-based compensation plan. For additional information regarding Comerica’s repurchase program, please refer to Note 14 on pages 117 through 118 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The response to this item is included on page 13 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which page is hereby incorporated by reference. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The response to this item is included on pages 14 through 71 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The response to this item is included on pages 52 through 60 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The response to this item is included on pages 72 through 152 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, and in the Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies on pages 17 through 56 and 101 through 115 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. 29 Table of Contents Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. None. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Disclosure Controls and Procedures As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act, management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Comerica’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the related attestation report of Comerica’s registered public accounting firm are included on pages 147 and 148 of Comerica’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2010, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. As required by Rule 13a-15(d) of the Exchange Act, management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to determine whether any changes occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Comerica’s internal control over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that there has been no such change during the last quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Comerica’s internal control over financial reporting. Item 9B. Other Information. On February 22, 2011, the Board of Directors amended and restated the Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan to provide that all future full value equity awards based on time vesting shall have a minimum vesting period of three years, and all future full value equity awards based on performance vesting shall have a minimum vesting period of one year. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant. Comerica has a Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Treasurer, the Executive Vice President of Finance and the Controller of Comerica, as applicable. The Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics is available on Comerica’s website at www.comerica.com. If any substantive amendments are made to the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics or if Comerica grants any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Treasurer, the Executive Vice President of Finance, or the Controller of Comerica, we will disclose the nature of such amendment or waiver on our web site. 30 Table of Contents The remainder of the response to this item will be included under the sections captioned “Information About Nominees and Incumbent Directors,” “Committees and Meetings of Directors,” “Committee Assignments,” “Executive Officers” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2011, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 11. Executive Compensation. The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation”, “Compensation of Executive Officers”, “Compensation Discussion and Analysis”, “Compensation of Directors”, “Governance, Compensation and Nominating Committee Report”, “2010 Summary Compensation Table”, “2010 Grants of Plan-Based Awards”, “Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End 2010”, “2010 Option Exercises and Stock Vested”, “Pension Benefits at Fiscal Year-End 2010”, “2010 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation”, and “Potential Payments upon Termination or Change of Control at Fiscal Year-End 2010” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2011, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. The information called for by this item with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The response to the remaining requirements of this item will be included under the sections captioned “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership of Management” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2011, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned “Director Independence and Transactions of Directors with Comerica,” “Transactions of Executive Officers with Comerica” and “Information about Nominees and Incumbent Directors” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2011, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. The response to this item will be included under the section captioned “Independent Auditors” of Comerica’s definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2011, which section is hereby incorporated by reference. 31 Table of Contents Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX Certain information required to be included in this Form 10-K is included in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders or in the 2011 Proxy Statement used in connection with the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 26, 2011. The following cross-reference index shows the page location in the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders or the section of the 2011 Proxy Statement of only that information which is to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. All other sections of the 2010 Annual Report to Shareholders or the 2011 Proxy Statement are not required in this Form 10-K and are not to be considered a part of this Form 10-K. Page Number of 2010 AnnualReport to Shareholders orSection of 2011 Proxy Statement PART I ITEM 1. Business Included herein; 17-22; 26-30; 35-38; 41-42; 117-118; 136-141 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Included herein ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Included herein 