Item 1A. Risk Factors. This Report includes forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, Comerica may make other written and oral communications from time to time that contain such statements. All statements regarding Comerica's expected financial position, strategies and growth prospects and general economic conditions Comerica expects to exist in the future are forward-looking statements. The words, "anticipates," "believes," "feels," "expects," "estimates," "seeks," "strives," "plans," "intends," "outlook," "forecast," "position," "target," "mission," "assume," "achievable," "potential," "strategy," "goal," "aspiration," "outcome," "continue," "remain," "maintain," "trend," "objective" and variations of such words and similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions, as they relate to Comerica or its management, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Comerica cautions that forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement is made, and Comerica does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to reflect facts, circumstances, assumptions or events that occur after the date the forward-looking statements are made. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance. In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere in this Report or previously disclosed in Comerica's SEC reports (accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov or on Comerica's website at www.comerica.com), the factors contained below, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, and future results could differ materially from historical performance. •General political, economic or industry conditions, either domestically or internationally, may be less favorable than expected. Local, domestic, and international economic, political and industry specific conditions affect the financial services industry, directly and indirectly. Conditions such as or related to inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, tight money supply, international conflicts and other factors, such as real estate values, energy costs and fuel prices, outside of our control may, directly and indirectly, adversely affect Comerica. As has been the case with impact of recent economic conditions, economic downturns could result in the delinquency of outstanding loans, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica's earnings. •Governmental monetary and fiscal policies may adversely affect the financial services industry, and therefore impact Comerica's financial condition and results of operations. Monetary and fiscal policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the Federal Reserve Board, affect the financial services industry, directly and indirectly. The Federal 10 Table of Contents Reserve Board regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States and its monetary and fiscal policies determine in a large part Comerica's cost of funds for lending and investing and the return that can be earned on such loans and investments. Changes in such policies, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the value of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits. Changes in monetary and fiscal policies are beyond Comerica's control and difficult to predict. Comerica's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely impacted by changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies. •Volatility and disruptions in the functioning of the financial markets and related liquidity issues could continue or worsen and, therefore, may adversely impact Comerica's business, financial condition and results of operations. The financial markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption in recent periods. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in financial markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. As a result of concern about the stability of the financial markets generally, the resulting credit availability issues, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could have a material adverse effect on Comerica's ability to access capital and manage liquidity. If current levels of financial market volatility and disruption continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that Comerica's business, financial condition and results of operations will not be materially and adversely impacted. •Changes in the performance and creditworthiness of customers and other counterparties may adversely impact Comerica's business, financial condition and results of operations. Current market developments and economic conditions have affected consumer confidence levels which may result in adverse changes in payment patterns of Comerica's customers. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to an increased level of consumer and commercial delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence and widespread reduction of business activity generally. A worsening of these conditions would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on Comerica, Comerica's customers and others in the financial institutions industry. Increased delinquencies and default rates may impact Comerica's loan charge-offs and related provisioning for loan losses. Deterioration in the quality of its credit portfolio could have an adverse impact on Comerica's business, financial condition and results of operations. •The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect Comerica. Comerica's ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Comerica has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led, and may further lead, to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions could expose Comerica to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, Comerica's credit risk may be impacted when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due to Comerica. There is no assurance that any such losses would not adversely affect, possible materially in nature, Comerica. 11 Table of Contents •There can be no assurances that recently enacted legislation, such as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, and actions taken by the United States Department of Treasury and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve their intended effects, and the impact of such legislation and regulatory programs on Comerica cannot reliably be determined at this time. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the "EESA") was signed into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury was granted the authority to take a range of actions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets and has proposed several programs, including the purchase by the U.S. Treasury of certain troubled assets from financial institutions and the direct purchase by the U.S. Treasury of equity of financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. In connection therewith, the U.S. Treasury introduced the Capital Purchase Program, under which it has purchased approximately $196 billion of preferred stock in eligible institutions, including Comerica, to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy. The EESA also temporarily raised the limit on federal deposit insurance coverage provided by the FDIC from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the development of a guarantee program under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act. As a result of this regulatory initiative, the FDIC implemented the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ("TLGP") to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system. The TLGP is comprised of the Debt Guarantee Program ("DGP") and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program ("TAGP"). The DGP guarantees all newly issued senior unsecured debt (e.g., promissory notes, unsubordinated unsecured notes and commercial paper) up to prescribed limits issued by participating entities beginning on October 14, 2008 and continuing through June 30, 2009. For eligible debt issued by that date, the FDIC will provide the guarantee coverage until the earlier of the maturity date of the debt or June 30, 2012. The TAGP offers full guarantee for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts held at FDIC-insured depository institutions. The unlimited deposit coverage was voluntary for eligible institutions and was in addition to the $250,000 FDIC deposit insurance per account that was included as part of the EESA. The limits are presently scheduled to return to $100,000 on January 1, 2010. The TAGP coverage became effective on October 14, 2008 and will continue for participating institutions until December 31, 2009. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and Capital Purchase Program may have adverse effects upon Comerica. It may face increased regulation of the financial services industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase Comerica's costs and limit its ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject Comerica to additional restrictions. For example, Comerica's participation in the Capital Purchase Program limits, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, its ability to (a) increase its quarterly dividend above $0.33 per common share (the quarterly dividend rate in effect as of November 14, 2008) or (b) repurchase any of its shares with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. Comerica also issued a warrant to purchase 11,479,592 million of its common shares at an exercise price of $29.40 per share. These restrictions, as well as the potential dilutive impact of the warrant, may have an adverse effect on the market price of its common stock. Similarly, the FDIC's TLGP programs, the DGP and the TAGP, may have an adverse effect on Comerica. Comerica's participation in the TAGP will require the payment of additional insurance premiums to the FDIC. The affects of such recently enacted legislation and regulatory programs on Comerica cannot reliably be determined at this time. 12 Table of Contents •Unfavorable developments concerning credit quality could adversely affect Comerica's financial results. Although Comerica regularly reviews credit exposure related to its customers and various industry sectors in which it has business relationships, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. Under such circumstances, Comerica could experience an increase in the level of provision for credit losses, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and reserve for credit losses, which could adversely affect Comerica's financial results. •Problems faced by residential real estate developers could adversely impact Comerica. Problems in the United States' residential real estate development industry, specifically in Michigan (Midwest market) and both northern and southern California (Western market), have materially and adversely impacted Comerica in recent periods. Poor economic conditions have resulted in decreased demand for residential housing, which, in turn, has adversely affected the development and construction efforts of residential real estate developers. Consequently, the current economic downturn has adversely affected the ability of such residential real estate developer borrowers to repay these loans and the value of property used as collateral for such loans. These problems facing residential real estate developers have had, and the continuation or worsening of such problems may have, a material and adverse impact on the financial results of Comerica. •Businesses or industries in which Comerica has lending concentrations, including, but not limited to, automotive production industry and the real estate business, could suffer a significant decline which could adversely affect Comerica. Comerica's business customer base consists, in part, of lending concentrations in volatile businesses and industries such as the automotive production industry and the real estate business. Recent economic conditions have significantly impacted such businesses, which has adversely affected Comerica. In the event of a continued or worsening downturn in the economy or further decline in any one of those customers' businesses or industries, Comerica could experience increased credit losses, and its business could be materially adversely affected. •The introduction, implementation, withdrawal, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies, including, but not limited to, the opening of new banking centers, may be less successful or may be different than anticipated, which could adversely affect Comerica's business. Comerica makes certain projections and develops plans and strategies for its banking and financial products. If Comerica does not accurately determine demand for its banking and financial product needs, it could result in Comerica incurring significant expenses without the anticipated increases in revenue, which could result in a material adverse effect on its business. •Utilization of technology to efficiently and effectively develop, market and deliver new products and services. The financial services industry experiences rapid technological change with regular introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The efficient and effective utilization of technology enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Comerica's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to market and deliver products and services that will satisfy customer demands and create additional efficiencies in Comerica's operations. Comerica may not be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica's financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents •Operational difficulties or information security problems could adversely affect Comerica's business and operations. Comerica is exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or recordkeeping errors or those resulting from computer or telecommunications systems malfunctions. Comerica may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to Comerica. In addition there is the risk that Comerica's controls and procedures as well as business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such occurrences or failures could materially and adversely affect Comerica's business and operations by exposing it to potential liability to customers, reputational damage and regulatory intervention. •Changes in the financial markets, including fluctuations in interest rates and their impact on deposit pricing, could adversely affect Comerica's net interest income and balance sheet. The operations of financial institutions such as Comerica are dependent to a large degree on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income from loans and investments and interest expense on deposits and borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions, the trade, fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and the policies of various regulatory agencies all affect market rates of interest and the availability and cost of credit, which in turn significantly affect financial institutions' net interest income. Volatility in interest rates can also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as federal government and corporate securities and other investment vehicles, which, because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements, generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions. Comerica's financial results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in financial market conditions. •Competitive product and pricing pressures among financial institutions within Comerica's markets may change. Comerica operates in a very competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of other financial institutions in each market in which it operates. Comerica competes with large national and regional financial institutions and with smaller financial institutions in terms of products and pricing. If Comerica is unable to compete effectively in products and pricing in its markets, business could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on Comerica's business, financial condition or results of operations. •Customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices generally may be different than anticipated. Comerica uses a variety of financial tools, models and other methods to anticipate customer behavior as a part of its strategic planning and to meet certain regulatory requirements. Individual, economic, political, industry-specific conditions and other factors outside of Comerica's control, such as fuel prices, energy costs, real estate values or other factors that affect customer income levels, could alter predicted customer borrowing, repayment, investment and deposit practices. Such a change in these practices could materially adversely affect Comerica's ability to anticipate business needs and meet regulatory requirements. 14 Table of Contents •Management's ability to maintain and expand customer relationships may differ from expectations. The financial services industry is very competitive. Comerica not only vies for business opportunities with new customers, but also competes to maintain and expand the relationships it has with its existing customers. While management believes that it can continue to grow many of these relationships, Comerica will continue to experience pressures to maintain these relationships as its competitors attempt to capture its customers. Failure to create new customer relationships and to maintain and expand existing customer relationships to the extent anticipated may adversely impact Comerica's earnings. •Management's ability to retain key officers and employees may change. Comerica's future operating results depend substantially upon the continued service of its executive officers and key personnel. Comerica's future operating results also depend in significant part upon its ability to attract and retain qualified management, financial, technical, marketing, sales and support personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and Comerica cannot ensure success in attracting or retaining qualified personnel. There may be only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions, and it may be increasingly difficult for Comerica to hire personnel over time. Comerica's ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry. On February 17, 2009, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the "ARRA") was signed into law. Section 7001 of the ARRA amended Section 111 of the EESA in its entirety. While the U.S. Treasury must promulgate regulations to implement the restrictions and standards set forth in Section 7001, the ARRA, among other things, significantly expands the executive compensation restrictions previously imposed by the EESA. Such restrictions apply to any entity that has received or will receive financial assistance under the Troubled Asset Recovery Program, and shall generally continue to apply for as long as any obligation arising from financial assistance provided under TARP, including preferred stock issued under the Capital Purchase Program, remains outstanding. These ARRA restrictions shall not apply to any Troubled Asset Recovery Program recipient during such time when the federal government (i) only holds any warrants to purchase common stock of such recipient or (ii) does not hold any preferred stock or warrants to purchase common stock of such recipient. As a result of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, the restrictions and standards set forth in Section 7001 of the ARRA shall be applicable to Comerica, subject to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Treasury. Such restrictions and standards may further impact management's ability to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as Comerica under Section 7001 of the ARRA. Comerica's business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the loss of any of its key employees, or Comerica's inability to attract and retain skilled employees. •Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters with respect to the financial services industry, including those directly involving Comerica and its subsidiaries, could adversely affect Comerica or the financial services industry in general. Comerica has been, and may in the future be, subject to various legal and regulatory proceedings. It is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and there can be no assurance that Comerica will prevail in any proceeding or litigation. Any such matter could result in substantial cost and diversion of Comerica's efforts, which by itself could have a material adverse effect on Comerica's financial condition and operating results. Further, adverse determinations in such 15 Table of Contents matters could result in actions by Comerica's regulators that could materially adversely affect Comerica's business, financial condition or results of operations. •Changes in regulation or oversight may have a material adverse impact on Comerica's operations. Comerica is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Texas Department of Banking, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which Comerica may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on Comerica's operations, investigations and limitations related to Comerica's securities, the classification of Comerica's assets and determination of the level of Comerica's allowance for loan losses. In light of the current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material adverse impact on Comerica's business, financial condition or results of operations. •Methods of reducing risk exposures might not be effective. Instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of credit, market and liquidity, operational, compliance, business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. As a result, Comerica may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk, which could have a material adverse impact on Comerica's business, financial condition or results of operations. •Terrorist activities or other hostilities may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and Comerica. Terrorist attacks or other hostilities may disrupt Comerica's operations or those of its customers. In addition, these events have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on the U.S. and world economy in general and consumer confidence and spending in particular, which could harm Comerica's operations. Any of these events could increase volatility in the U.S. and world financial markets, which could harm Comerica's stock price and may limit the capital resources available to Comerica and its customers. This could have a material adverse impact on Comerica's operating results, revenues and costs and may result in increased volatility in the market price of Comerica's common stock. •Natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires and floods, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and Comerica. Comerica has significant operations and a significant customer base in California, Texas, Florida and other regions where natural disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, fires and floods. These types of natural disasters at times have disrupted the local economy, Comerica's business and customers and have posed physical risks to Comerica's property. A significant natural disaster could materially adversely affect Comerica's operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties. The executive offices of Comerica are located in the Comerica Bank Tower, 1717 Main Street, Dallas, Texas 75201. Comerica Bank leases five floors of the building, plus an additional 34,238 square feet on the building's lower level, from an unaffiliated third party. The lease for such space used by Comerica and its subsidiaries extends through September 2023. Comerica and its subsidiaries also currently occupy 11 floors in the Comerica Tower at One Detroit Center, 500 Woodward Avenue, Detroit, Michigan 48226. Such space is leased through Comerica Bank from an unaffiliated third party. The leases at that building extend through January 2012. As of December 31, 2008, Comerica, through its banking affiliates, operated a total of 507 banking centers, trust services locations, and loan production or other financial services offices, primarily in the States of Texas, Michigan, California and Florida. Of these offices, 217 were owned and 290 were leased. As of December 31, 2008, affiliates also operated from leased spaces in Mesa and Phoenix, Arizona; Denver, Colorado; Wilmington, Delaware; Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois; Boston and Waltham, Massachusetts; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Princeton and Sea Girt, New Jersey; Las Vegas, Nevada; New York, New York; Rocky Mount and Wilmington, North Carolina; Granville and West Chester, Ohio; Memphis, Tennessee; Reston, Virginia; Bellevue and Seattle, Washington; Monterrey, Mexico; Wanchai, Hong Kong; Toronto, Ontario, Canada and Windsor, Ontario, Canada. Comerica and its subsidiaries own, among other properties, a check processing center in Livonia, Michigan, a 10-story building in the central business district of Detroit, Michigan that houses certain departments of Comerica and Comerica Bank, and three buildings in Auburn Hills, Michigan, used mainly for lending functions and operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Effective January 5, 2009, Comerica Securities, Inc. ("Comerica Securities"), an indirect subsidiary of Comerica, and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") finalized the settlement of FINRA's auction rate securities ("ARS") investigation of Comerica Securities pursuant to the terms of a Letter of Acceptance Waiver and Consent (the "AWC") executed by the parties. The AWC formalized the agreement in principle between Comerica Securities and FINRA previously announced on September 18, 2008. For more information regarding the AWC and the ARS matter, reference is made to (i) Comerica's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 18, 2008, (ii) Comerica's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated January 5, 2009, (iii) Note 28 on page 143 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (iv) Exhibit 10.39 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Comerica and certain of its subsidiaries are subject to various pending and threatened legal proceedings arising out of the normal course of business or operations. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, Comerica cannot state what the eventual outcome of any such matters will be. However, based on current knowledge and after consultation with legal counsel, management believes that current reserves, determined in accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," are adequate and the amount of any incremental liability arising from these matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on Comerica's consolidated financial condition. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Comerica did not submit any matters for a vote of the security holders in the fourth quarter of 2008. 17 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information and Holders of Common Stock The common stock of Comerica Incorporated is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE Trading Symbol: CMA). At February 19, 2009, there were approximately 13,192 record holders of Comerica's common stock. Sales Prices and Dividends Quarterly cash dividends were declared during 2008 and 2007 totaling $2.31 and $2.56 per common share per year, respectively. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale prices per share of Comerica's common stock as reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions Tape for all quarters of 2008 and 2007, as well as dividend information. Quarter High Low Dividends Per Share Dividend* Yield 2008 Fourth $ 37.01 $ 15.05 $ 0.33 5.1 % Third 54.00 19.31 0.66 7.2 Second 40.62 25.61 0.66 8.0 First 45.19 34.51 0.66 6.6 2007 Fourth $ 54.88 $ 39.62 $ 0.64 5.4 % Third 61.34 50.26 0.64 4.6 Second 63.89 58.18 0.64 4.2 First 63.39 56.77 0.64 4.3 *Dividend yield is calculated by annualizing the quarterly dividend per share and dividing by an average of the high and low price in the quarter. Effective November 14, 2008, Comerica cannot, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, increase its quarterly dividend above $0.33 per common share under the terms of the Capital Purchase Program. For additional information regarding Comerica's participation in the Capital Purchase Program, please refer to pages 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 18 Table of Contents Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans As of December 31, 2008 Plan Category Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights (a) Weighted- average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights (b) Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column(a)) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1) 19,049,015 $ 53.48 8,720,375(2)(3) Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(4) 184,500 55.94 — Total 19,233,515 $ 53.51 8,720,375 (1)Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per share, issued under the Comerica Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Amended and Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the 1991 Long-Term Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, and the Imperial Bank Stock Option Plan (assumed by Comerica in connection with its acquisition of Imperial Bank). Does not include 57,582 restricted stock units equivalent to shares of common stock issued under the Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors and outstanding as of December 31, 2008, or 1,627,229 shares of restricted stock issued under Comerica's Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan and outstanding as of December 31, 2008. There are no shares available for future issuances under any of these plans other than the Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Comerica's Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The Comerica Incorporated Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors was approved by the shareholders on May 18, 2004. The 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (currently known as the Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan) was approved by Comerica's shareholders on May 16, 2006. (2)Does not include shares of common stock purchased by employees under the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or contributed by Comerica on behalf of the employees. The Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan was ratified and approved by the shareholders on May 18, 2004. Five million shares of Comerica's common stock have been registered for sale or awards to employees under the Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. As of December 31, 2008, 1,580,295 shares had been purchased by or contributed on behalf of employees, leaving 3,419,705 shares available for future sale or awards. If these shares available for future sale or awards under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan were included, the number shown in column (c) would be 12,140,080. (3)These shares are available for future issuance under Comerica's Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan in the form of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards and other stock-based awards and under the Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors in the form of options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other equity-based awards. Under the Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, not more than a total of 2.2 million shares may be used for awards other than options and stock appreciation rights and not more than one million shares are available as incentive stock options. Further, no award recipient may receive more than 350,000 shares during any calendar year, and the maximum number of shares underlying awards of options 19 Table of Contents and stock appreciation rights that may be granted to an award recipient in any calendar year is 350,000. (4)Consists of options to acquire shares of common stock, par value $5.00 per share, issued under the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (terminated March 2004). Most of the equity awards made by Comerica during 2008 were granted under the shareholder-approved Amended and Restated 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. Plans not approved by Comerica's shareholders include: Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Comerica Bank and Affiliated Banks (Terminated March 2004)—Under the plan, Comerica granted options to acquire up to 450,000 shares of common stock, subject to equitable adjustment upon the occurrence of events such as stock splits, stock dividends or recapitalizations. After each annual meeting of shareholders, each member of the Board of Directors of a subsidiary bank of Comerica who was not an employee of Comerica or of any of its subsidiaries nor a director of Comerica (the "Eligible Directors") automatically was granted an option to purchase 2,500 shares of the common stock of Comerica. Option grants under the plan were in addition to annual retainers, meeting fees and other compensation payable to Eligible Directors in connection with their services as directors. The plan is administered by a committee of the Board of Directors. With respect to the automatic grants, the committee does not and did not have discretion as to matters such as the selection of directors to whom options will be granted, the timing of grants, the number of shares to become subject to each option grant, the exercise price of options, or the periods of time during which any option may be exercised. In addition to the automatic grants, the committee could grant options to the Eligible Directors in its discretion. The exercise price of each option granted was the fair market value of each share of common stock subject to the option on the date the option was granted. The exercise price is payable in full upon exercise of the option and may be paid in cash or by delivery of previously owned shares. The committee may change the option price per share following a corporate reorganization or recapitalization so that the aggregate option price for all shares subject to each outstanding option prior to the change is equivalent to the aggregate option price for all shares or other securities into which option shares have been converted or which have been substituted for option shares. The term of each option cannot be more than ten years. This plan was terminated by the Board of Directors on March 23, 2004. Accordingly, no new options may be granted under this plan. Director Deferred Compensation Plans—Comerica maintains two deferred compensation plans for non-employee directors of Comerica, its subsidiaries and its advisory boards: the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Common Stock Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the "Common Stock Deferral Plan") and the Amended and Restated Comerica Incorporated Non-Employee Director Fee Deferral Plan (the "Mutual Fund Deferral Plan"). The Common Stock Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of common stock of Comerica, while the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan allows directors to invest in units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, the shares of certain mutual funds offered under such plan. The Common Stock Deferral Plan previously provided for the mandatory deferral of 50% of the annual retainer of each director of Comerica into shares of common stock of Comerica, but currently has no mandatory deferral. Until the mandatory deferral requirement was discontinued, directors could voluntarily defer the remaining 50% of their director fees (and all other non-employee directors of Comerica's subsidiaries could choose to defer up to 100% of their director fees) under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan, or a combination of the two plans. Currently, all eligible non-employee directors may defer any portion or none of their director fees under the Common Stock Deferral Plan or the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan, or a combination of the two plans. 20 Table of Contents The directors' accounts under the Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased to the extent of dividends paid on Comerica common stock to reflect the number of additional shares of Comerica's common stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of common stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding stock units in the directors' accounts. Similarly, the directors' accounts under the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on the mutual fund shares to reflect the number of additional shares of mutual fund shares that could have been purchased had the dividends or other distributions been paid on each share of stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding mutual fund units in the directors' accounts. Following the applicable deferral period, the distribution of a participant's Comerica stock unit account under the Common Stock Deferral Plan is made in Comerica's common stock (with fractional shares being paid in cash), while the distribution of a participant's mutual fund account under the Mutual Fund Deferral Plan is made in cash. Employee Deferred Compensation Plans—Comerica maintains two deferred compensation plans for eligible employees of Comerica and its subsidiaries: the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Amended and Restated Common Stock Deferred Incentive Award Plan (the "Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan") and the 1999 Comerica Incorporated Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Employee Fund Plan"). Under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan, eligible employees may defer specified portions of their incentive awards into units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of common stock of Comerica. The employees' accounts under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on Comerica's common stock to reflect the number of additional shares of Comerica's common stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of common stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding stock units in the employees' accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Common Stock Deferral Plan is payable in shares of Comerica's common stock following termination of service as an employee. Similarly, under the Employee Fund Plan, eligible employees may defer specified portions of their compensation, including salary, bonus and incentive awards, into units that correlate to, and are functionally equivalent to, shares of certain mutual funds offered under the Employee Fund Plan. Beginning in 1999, no such funds are Comerica stock funds. The employees' accounts under the Employee Fund Plan are increased in connection with the payment of dividends paid on the fund shares to reflect the number of additional shares of the fund stock that could have been purchased had the dividends been paid on each share of fund stock hypothetically underlying then-outstanding stock units in the employees' accounts. The deferred compensation under the Employee Fund Plan is payable in cash following termination of service as an employee. For additional information regarding Comerica's equity compensation plans, please refer to Note 15 on pages 101 through 103 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers The Board of Directors of Comerica authorized the purchase of up to 10 million shares on November 13, 2007, in addition to the remaining unfulfilled portion of the November 14, 2006 authorization. Substantially all shares purchased as part of Comerica's publicly announced repurchase program have been transacted in the open market and were within the scope of Rule 10b-18, which provides a safe harbor for purchases in a given day if an issuer of equity securities satisfies the manner, timing, price and volume conditions of the rule when purchasing its own common shares in the open market. There is no expiration date for Comerica's share repurchase program. However, as a participant in the Capital Purchase Program, effective November 14, 2008, Comerica cannot repurchase any of its shares without U.S. Treasury approval with limited exceptions, most significantly purchases in connection with benefit plans. Comerica made no open market repurchases in the year ended 21 Table of Contents December 31, 2008, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 during which it repurchased 10.0 million shares in the open market. The following table summarizes Comerica's monthly share repurchase activity during the quarter ended December 31, 2008. Month Ended Total Number of Shares Purchased(1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 31, 2008 6,515 $ 34.99 — 12,576,281 November 30, 2008 — — — 12,576,281 December 31, 2008 — — — 12,576,281 Total 6,515 $ 34.99 — 12,576,281 (1)Includes shares purchased pursuant to deferred compensation plans and shares purchased from employees to pay for grant prices and/or taxes related to stock option exercises and restricted stock vesting under the terms of an employee share-based compensation plan. For additional information regarding Comerica's share repurchase program, please refer to Note 12 on pages 96 through 98 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds Pursuant to the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program, on November 14, 2008, Comerica issued to the U.S. Treasury in exchange for aggregate consideration of $2.25 billion, (i) 2.25 million shares of Comerica's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F, without par value (the "Series F Preferred Stock"), and (ii) a warrant to purchase 11,479,592 shares of Comerica's common stock, at an exercise price of $29.40 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments (the "Warrant"). The Series F Preferred Stock (a) has a liquidation amount per share equal to $1,000 for an aggregate value of $2.25 billion and (b) pays a cumulative annual dividend of five percent for the first five years and nine percent on an annual basis thereafter. The Warrant expires ten years from the issuance date. Both the Series F Preferred Stock and the Warrant were accounted for as components of Comerica's regulatory Tier 1 capital. For additional information regarding Comerica's participation in the Capital Purchase Program, please refer to (i) pages 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and (ii) Note 12 on pages 96 through 98 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The response to this item is included on page 11 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008, which page is hereby incorporated by reference. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The response to this item is included on pages 12 through 69 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. 22 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The response to this item is included on pages 52 through 60 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The response to this item is included on pages 70 through 151 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008, and in the Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies on pages 16 through 55 and 88 through 93 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. None. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Disclosure Controls and Procedures As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Exchange Act, management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Comerica's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Management's annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the related attestation report of Comerica's registered public accounting firm are included on pages 146 and 147 of Comerica's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008, which pages are hereby incorporated by reference. As required by Rule 13a-15(d), management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to determine whether any changes occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Comerica's internal control over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that there has been no such change during the last quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Comerica's internal control over financial reporting. Item 9B. Other Information. None. 23 Table of Contents PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant. Comerica has a Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics that applies to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, the Senior Vice President—Finance, and the Treasurer of Comerica. The Senior Financial Officer Code of Ethics is available on Comerica's website at www.comerica.com. The remainder of the response to this item will be included under the sections captioned "Information About Nominees and Incumbent Directors," "Committees and Meetings of Directors," "Committee Assignments," "Executive Officers" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" of Comerica's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 19, 2009, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 11. Executive Compensation. The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", "Compensation of Executive Officers", "Compensation Discussion and Analysis", "Compensation of Directors", "Officer Stock Ownership Guidelines", "Compensation Committee Report", "Summary Compensation Table", "Grants Of Plan-Based Awards", "Outstanding Equity Awards At Fiscal Year-End", "Option Exercises and Stock Vested", "Pension Benefits", "Nonqualified Deferred Compensation", "Employee Deferred Compensation Plans", and "Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control" of Comerica's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 19, 2009, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. The information called for by this item with respect to securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under Part II, Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The response to the remaining requirements of this item will be included under the sections captioned "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" of Comerica's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 19, 2009, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. The response to this item will be included under the sections captioned "Director Independence and Transactions of Directors with Comerica," "Transactions of Executive Officers with Comerica" and "Information about Nominees and Incumbent Directors" of Comerica's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 19, 2009, which sections are hereby incorporated by reference. Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services. The response to this item will be included under the section captioned "Independent Auditors" of Comerica's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 19, 2009, which section is hereby incorporated by reference. 24 Comerica Incorporated and Subsidiaries FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX Certain information required to be included in this Form 10-K is included in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders or in the 2009 Proxy Statement used in connection with the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 19, 2009. The following cross-reference index shows the page location in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders or the section of the 2009 Proxy Statement of only that information which is to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. All other sections of the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders or the 2009 Proxy Statement are not required in this Form 10-K and are not to be considered a part of this Form 10-K. Page Number of 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders or Section of 2009 Proxy Statement PART I ITEM 1. Business Included herein; 15-16; 18-22; 27-31; 37-40; 42-45; 57; 94-98; 133-141 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Included herein ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Included herein 