Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. Information in this Form 10-K should be considered carefully by investors in light of the risk factors described below. Our revenues depend on our ability to maintain our level of government business. The loss of our contracts with domestic and non-U.S. government agencies could adversely affect our revenues. We derive the substantial majority of our revenues from contracts or subcontracts with domestic and non-U.S. government agencies. A significant reduction in the purchase of our products by these agencies would have a material adverse effect our business. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 90%, 87% and 84%, respectively, of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from defense-industry contracts with the U.S. government and its agencies. In addition, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 7%, 9% and 12% of our revenues were derived directly or indirectly from sales to foreign governments, respectively. Therefore, the development of our business in the future will depend upon the continued willingness of the U.S. government and its prime contractors to commit substantial resources to defense programs and, in particular, upon the continued purchase of our products, and other products which incorporate our products, by the U.S. government. In particular, the current funding demands on the U.S. government, combined with a potential reduction of forces in Iraq, may lead to lower levels of government defense spending. The risk that governmental purchases of our products may decline stems from the nature of our business with the U.S. government, in which the U.S. government may: · terminate contracts at its convenience; · terminate, reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts if its requirements or budgetary constraints change; · cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds become unavailable; and · shift its spending priorities. In addition, as a defense business, we are subject to the following risks in connection with government contracts: · the frequent need to bid on programs prior to completing the necessary design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns; 11 · the difficulty in forecasting long-term costs and schedules and the potential obsolescence of products related to long-term, fixed-price contracts; · the risk of fluctuations or a decline in government expenditures due to any changes in the DoD budget or appropriation of funds; · when we act as a subcontractor, the failure or inability of the prime contractor to perform its prime contract may result in an inability to obtain payment of fees and contract costs; · restriction or potential prohibition on the export of products based on licensing requirements; and · the fact that government contract wins can be contested by other contractors. Our revenues will be adversely affected if we fail to receive renewal or follow-on contracts. Renewal and follow-on contracts are important because our contracts are for fixed terms. These terms vary from shorter than one year to over five years, particularly for contracts with options. The typical term of our contracts with the U.S. government is between one and three years. The loss of revenues from our possible failure to obtain renewal or follow-on contracts may be significant because our U.S. government contracts account for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our results of operations fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · the termination of a key government contract; · the size and timing of new contract awards to replace completed or expired contracts; and · changes in governmental policies, budgetary priorities and allocation and timing of funding. We may not be successful in implementing our growth strategy if we are unable to identify, acquire and finance suitable acquisition targets. Finding and consummating acquisitions is an important component of our growth strategy. Our continued ability to grow by acquisition is dependent upon the availability of acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and our ability to obtain additional acquisition financing on acceptable terms. Larger companies with significantly greater resources compete against us for acquisitions. We are likely to use significant amounts of cash, issue additional equity securities and/or incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and/or a dilutive effect on returns to existing stockholders. Based on our current level of indebtedness and other factors, which may or may not be within our control, there can be no assurance that we will be able to procure the necessary funds to effectuate our acquisition strategy on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, as our revenue growth has been attributable historically in large part to our successful acquisition strategy, failure to identify, consummate or integrate suitable acquisitions could lead to a reduced rate of revenue growth, operating income and net earnings in the future. Integration of the operations of businesses we may acquire is complex, time consuming and expensive and may adversely affect the results of our operations after the acquisition. The anticipated benefits of our acquisitions will depend in part on whether we can integrate our operations in an efficient, timely and effective manner. Integrating our acquisitions is a 12 complex, time consuming and expensive process. We may not successfully accomplish a given integration and may not realize the benefits contemplated by combining the operations of both companies. The diversion of our attention to integration efforts and any difficulty encountered in combining operations could cause the interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, activities of our business. If we are unable to successfully integrate companies we acquire into our operations on a timely basis, our profitability could be negatively affected. We generally expect our acquisitions to result in certain business opportunities and growth prospects. We, however, may never realize these expected business opportunities and growth prospects. We may experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business. Our assumptions underlying estimates of expected cost savings may be inaccurate, or general industry and business conditions may deteriorate. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, technologies and products acquired; · the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns; · our current operating and financial systems and controls, which may be inadequate to manage our growth; · our possible inability to maintain or renew contracts of businesses we acquire; · our entering of markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and · the loss of key employees. If these factors limit our ability to integrate the operations of our acquisitions successfully or on a timely basis, our expectations of future results of operations may not be met. In addition, our growth and operating strategies for businesses we acquire may be different from the strategies that such business currently is pursuing. If our strategies are not the proper strategies for a company we acquire, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or enhance the profitability of any acquired business or consolidate the operations of any acquired business to achieve cost savings. In addition, there may be liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each company or business we have already acquired or may acquire in the future. Such liabilities could include those arising from employee benefits contribution obligations of a prior owner or non-compliance with or liability pursuant to applicable federal, state or local environmental requirements by prior owners for which we, as a successor owner, may be responsible. In addition, there may be additional costs relating to acquisitions, including, but not limited to, possible purchase price adjustments. We cannot assure you that rights to indemnification by sellers of assets to us, even if obtained, will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or property acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may reduce our profit or cause a loss. We provide our services primarily through two types of contracts: fixed-price and cost-type contracts. Approximately 76%, 83% and 81% of our total revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from fixed-price contracts, which require us to perform services under a contract at a stipulated price. We derived approximately 13 24%, 17% and 19% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, from cost-type, including time-and-material-type, contracts by which we are reimbursed for incurred costs and receive a fee that, depending on the contract, is either dependent on cost savings and/or performance or is a fixed fee, which is negotiated but limited by statutes. We assume greater financial risk on fixed-price contracts than on cost-type contracts. Failure to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract will reduce our profit or cause a loss. In particular, because of their inherent uncertainties and consequent cost overruns, development contracts have historically been less profitable than production contracts. Although we believe that adequate provision for our costs of performance is reflected in our consolidated financial statements, we can give no assurance that this provision is adequate or that losses on fixed-price and cost-type contracts will not occur in the future. We also cannot assure you that current cost-type contracts will not be changed to fixed-price contracts. We may experience production delays if suppliers fail to deliver materials to us. Our manufacturing process for certain products consists primarily of the assembly of purchased components and testing of the product at various stages in the assembly process. Although we can obtain materials and purchase components for these products from a number of different suppliers, several suppliers are our sole source of certain components. If a supplier should cease to deliver such components, we believe that we would probably find other sources; however, this could result in added cost and manufacturing delays. We have not experienced significant production delays attributable to supply shortages, but we occasionally experience procurement problems with respect to certain components, such as semiconductors and connectors. In addition, with respect to our electro-optical products, certain materials, such as germanium, zinc sulfide and cobalt, may not always be readily available. Our backlog is subject to reduction and cancellation, which could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Backlog represents products or services that our customers have committed by contract to purchase from us. Our total funded backlog as of March 31, 2007 was approximately $3.0 billion. Backlog is subject to fluctuations and is not necessarily indicative of future sales. Moreover, cancellations or reductions of product quantities in existing contracts could substantially and materially reduce backlog and, consequently, future revenues. Our failure to replace canceled or reduced backlog could negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Our international operations expose us to risks of losses. Approximately 7%, 9% and 12% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were derived from sales to foreign governments. We are exploring the possibility of expansion into additional international markets. We cannot assure you that we will maintain significant operations internationally or that any such operations will be successful. Any international operations we establish will be subject to risks similar to those affecting our U.S. operations and our current operations in Canada and the United Kingdom, in addition to a number of other risks, including: · political and economic instability in foreign markets; · inconsistent product regulation by foreign agencies or governments; · imposition of product tariffs and burdens; 14 · cost of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws and regulatory requirements, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Export Administration Act and the Arms Export Control Act (and the regulations promulgated thereunder); · lack of local business experience; · foreign currency fluctuations; · difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights; and · language and other cultural barriers. As noted above, the sale of certain of our products outside the United States is highly regulated. Our inability to obtain the requisite licenses, meet registration standards or comply with applicable government export regulations may affect our ability to export products or to generate revenues from the sale of such products outside the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with government regulations also may subject us to substantial fees, costs and delays. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. We operate in highly competitive markets. The markets in which we compete are highly competitive and are subject to rapid technological change. A potential inability to improve existing product lines and develop new products and technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our competitors could introduce new products with greater capabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. There are many competitors in the markets in which we sell our products. Some of these competitors are substantially larger than we are, devote substantially greater resources to research and development, and generally have greater financial and other resources. Consequently, these competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of economies of scale and develop new technologies. A number of these competitors are also our suppliers and customers. We compete with many large and mid-tier defense contractors on the basis of performance, cost, overall value, delivery and reputation. Additionally, some customers, including the DoD, are increasingly purchasing “off the shelf” components from commercial suppliers in lieu of using traditional defense contractors to design and manufacture such items. Further, the industry has experienced substantial consolidation, increasing the market share of certain companies and enabling them to enhance their competitive position. We are dependent in part upon our relationships and alliances with industry participants in order to generate revenue. We rely on the strength of our relationships with other industry participants to form strategic alliances. Some of our industry partners assist us in the development of some of our products through teaming arrangements. If any of our existing relationships with our industry partners were impaired or terminated, we could experience significant delays in the development of new products ourselves, and we would incur additional development costs. We would need to fund these costs internally or identify new industry partners. Some of our likely industry partners are also potential competitors, which may impair the viability of new or continued strategic relationships. While we must compete effectively in the marketplace, our future alliances may depend on our industry partners’ perception of us. Our ability to win new and/or follow-on contracts may be dependent upon our relationships within the defense industry. 15 The U.S. government’s right to use technology developed by us limits our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect the competitive benefits we derive from our patents, proprietary information and other intellectual property. However, we do not have the right to prohibit the U.S. government from using certain technologies developed by us or to prohibit third party companies, including our competitors, from using those technologies in providing products and services to the U.S. government. The U.S. government has the right to royalty-free use of technologies that we have developed under U.S. government contracts. We are free to commercially exploit those government-funded technologies and may assert our intellectual property rights to seek to block other non-government users thereof, but we cannot assure you that we successfully could do so. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, and our ongoing operations may expose us to environmental liabilities. Our operations, like those of other companies engaged in similar businesses, are subject to federal, state, foreign and local environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. As a result, we have been involved from time to time in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental matters. We cannot assure you that the aggregate amount of future clean-up costs and other environmental liabilities will not be material. We could be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties, including criminal sanctions, if we fail to comply with these requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations. However, the requirements of these laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist. Also, in the future, contamination may be found to exist at our current or former facilities or at off-site locations to which we or certain companies that we have acquired or previously owned may have sent waste, including the Orphan Mine site in the Grand Canyon National Park, Arizona, which is currently subject to a government investigation. We could be held liable for such contamination. The remediation of such contamination, or the enactment of more stringent laws or regulations or more strict interpretation of existing laws and regulations, may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. ESSI currently is subject to investigations by the Enforcement Division of the SEC and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri, each of which could require significant management attention and legal and financial resources and could have a material adverse effect on us. In December 2004, ESSI, prior to its acquisition by us, was notified by the Enforcement Division of the SEC of the issuance of a formal order directing a private investigation relating to trading in ESSI stock in 2003 and to the adequacy of certain disclosures made by ESSI regarding certain related party transactions in 2002 and 2003. In February 2007, the SEC filed a civil injunctive action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri against a former director, officer and consultant of ESSI, alleging that he had violated the federal securities laws by “tipping” his financial advisor and close friend by sharing material, nonpublic information regarding ESSI’s financial condition shortly before certain 2003 earnings announcements. In September 2005, ESSI received notice that the SEC staff had expanded the scope of the foregoing investigation to include ESSI’s disclosure of a November 2004 stop-work order relating to ESSI’s Deployable Power Generation and Distribution Systems (DPGDS) program. In connection with this investigation, ESSI and certain of its directors and officers have received subpoenas and 16 provided information and testimony to the SEC. ESSI has furnished the information required by the SEC. In January 2006, ESSI was informed that the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri was initiating an investigation into ESSI’s disclosure of the DPGDS stop-work order and into trading in ESSI stock by ESSI insiders, which preceded such disclosure. The U.S. Attorney’s office advised ESSI that although it considered it to be a subject of its investigation, ESSI was not a target. In connection with this investigation, the U.S. Attorney’s office issued ESSI a subpoena requesting specified information, which ESSI has furnished. In May 2006, we were advised that the Enforcement Division of the SEC and the U.S. Attorney’s office each had expanded its investigation to include possible “backdating” of the timing of option grants at ESSI prior to the time we acquired it. As a part of its investigation, the SEC issued subpoenas to certain officers and employees of ESSI to provide testimony and produce certain documents. In February 2007, the SEC filed civil injunctive actions in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri, Eastern Division, against ESSI’s former chief financial officer and former controller in which each was alleged to have participated in a backdating scheme. In March 2007, ESSI’s former chief financial officer was indicted by the grand jury of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri on ten counts of fraud relating to the “backdating” of the timing of stock options at ESSI prior to the time ESSI was acquired by DRS. The indictment alleges that this former ESSI executive and others “backdated” stock options on at least eight occasions between 1996 and 2002. In February 2007, the SEC reported ESSI’s former controller had settled its action against him by consenting to disgorgement, financial penalties, an officer and director bar and a permanent suspension from practicing before the SEC as an accountant. In March 2007, the former controller pled guilty to a one-count brought by the office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri charging him with making false statements to the government. In connection with his plea, this former ESSI executive admitted that a number of documents filed by ESSI with the SEC contained the materially false statement that the option price of shares subject to the ESSI stock option plan was the closing price of the stock on the date the options were awarded. Although ESSI continues to be a subject of the U.S. Attorney’s office’s investigation, the U.S. Attorney’s office has advised us that ESSI is not a target. Because the events being investigated occurred prior to the time of our acquisition of ESSI, the U.S. Attorney’s office has further advised us that it considers DRS to be a witness, not a subject or target of its investigation. The Internal Revenue Service is in the process of auditing ESSI’s federal tax returns for the tax periods ended October 31, 2004, October 31, 2005 and January 31, 2006. In connection with these audits, ESSI expects that it will be required to amend previously filed Federal and state tax returns to reflect the disallowance of certain compensation deductions taken during the periods under review. We have recorded an accrual to reflect the anticipated disallowance. We are committed to full cooperation with regard to the foregoing investigations. We are unable to determine at this time either the timing of the investigations or the impact, if any, the investigations could have on the Company. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” We are subject to an ongoing investigation by the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, which could require significant management attention and legal resources and have a material adverse effect on the Company. In July 2006, DRS and one of our subsidiaries, DRS Training & Control Systems, Inc. (TCS), each were issued a subpoena by the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida. The subpoenas were issued in connection with an inquiry being conducted by the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and require TCS to produce certain documents related to an investigation involving allegations of anticompetitive activity in certain 17 international markets. In addition, certain employees and officers of TCS were served with subpoenas to testify before the grand jury of the Florida District Court with regard to this matter. We have cooperated with the DOJ in producing documents in response to the subpoenas. We have commenced an internal investigation regarding this matter, which we expect to continue through the conclusion of the DOJ’s investigatory process. We are unable to determine either the timing or the impact, if any, this investigation may have on us. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, each of which could have a material adverse affect on our business. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. In addition to the investigations noted above, various legal lawsuits, claims and demands are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims made in the litigation matters in which we have been named a party and intend to contest each lawsuit vigorously, no assurances can be given that the results of these matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution or outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or demands could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these legal proceedings and other contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. As required by GAAP, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish liabilities based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our financial statements. It is possible that the ultimate resolution of those matters could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and/or cash flows from operating activities in a particular reporting period. For a description of our current legal proceedings, see Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.” A failure to attract and retain technical and other key personnel could reduce our revenues and our operational effectiveness. There is a continuing demand for qualified technical and other key personnel, and we believe that our future growth and success will depend upon our ability to attract, train and retain such personnel. Competition for personnel in the military industry is intense, and there is a limited number of persons with knowledge of and experience in this industry. Although we currently experience relatively low rates of turnover for our technical personnel, the rate of turnover may increase in the future. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our contract performance or on our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules, regulations, and procedures, including routine audits. Government contractors must comply with specific procurement regulations and other requirements and are subject to routine audits and investigations by U.S. government agencies, such as the DCAA. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. Any costs found to be allocated improperly to a specific contract will not be reimbursed or must be refunded if already reimbursed. If we fail to comply with procurement regulations or other requirements, or if an audit otherwise uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and/or criminal penalties and/or administrative sanctions, which may include termination or modification of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety are made against us. 18 Our operations involve rapidly evolving products and technological change. The rapid change of technology is a key feature of the market for the majority of our defense applications. To succeed, we will need to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through customer-sponsored research and development, as well as from internally funded research and development. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to maintain comparable levels of research and development. In the past, we have allocated substantial funds to capital expenditures, and we intend to continue to do so in the future. Even so, we cannot assure you that we successfully will identify new opportunities and continue to have the needed financial resources to develop new products in a timely or cost-effective manner. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products and systems obsolete or non-competitive. Our level of indebtedness could limit cash flow available for our operations and could adversely affect our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing, if necessary. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Our total debt outstanding as of March 31, 2007 was approximately $1.8 billion. Our level of indebtedness could restrict our operations and make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations. For example, our levels of indebtedness could, among other things: · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes or make such financing more costly; · require us to dedicate all or a substantial portion of our cash flow to service our debt, which would reduce funds available for other business purposes, such as capital expenditures, research and development, dividends or acquisitions; · limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the markets in which we compete; · place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less indebtedness; · render us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations. In addition, the indentures governing the Senior Notes and the Senior Subordinated Notes, our amended and restated senior secured credit facility and the terms of the agreements governing our other outstanding indebtedness contain financial and other restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries still may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the indentures governing our notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so, and any restrictions potentially may be waived by our lenders to permit additional borrowing beyond that which is permitted under our current arrangements. Our amended and restated senior secured credit facility permits additional borrowing under such facility. 19 Our ability to service our debt and meet our cash requirements depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Although there can be no assurances, we believe that the level of borrowings available to us, combined with cash provided by our operations, will be sufficient to provide for our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. However, our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to: · refinance all or a portion of our debt; · obtain additional debt or equity-based financing; · sell some of our assets or operations; · reduce or delay capital expenditures and/or acquisitions; or · revise or delay our strategic plans. If we are required to take any of these actions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In addition, we cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our various debt instruments, including our amended and restated senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes. The covenants in our amended and restated senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes impose restrictions that may limit our ability and the ability of most of our subsidiaries to take certain actions. The covenants in our amended and restated senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our notes restrict our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: · incur additional debt; · pay dividends and make other restricted payments; · make certain investments, loans and advances; · create or permit certain liens; · issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; · use the proceeds from sales of assets and subsidiary stock; · create or permit restrictions on the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · enter into sale and leaseback transactions; · engage in certain business activities; and · consolidate or merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. Our amended and restated senior secured credit facility contains other covenants customary for credit facilities of this nature, including requiring us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. Our ability to borrow under our amended and restated senior secured credit facility will depend upon satisfaction of these covenants. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet those covenants. 20 If we are unable to meet the terms of our financial covenants, or if we breach any of these covenants, a default could occur under one or more of these agreements. A default, if not waived by our lenders, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness and cause our debt to become immediately due and payable. If acceleration occurs, we would not be able to repay our debt, and it is unlikely that we would be able to borrow sufficient funds to refinance our debt. Even if new financing were made available to us, it may not be on terms acceptable to us. Some of our debt, including borrowings under our amended and restated senior secured credit facility, is based on variable rates of interest, which could result in higher interest expenses in the event of an increase in interest rates. As of March 31, 2007, 16% of our total debt is exposed to fluctuations in variable interest rates. This increases our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. If we borrow additional amounts under the revolving portion of our amended and restated senior secured credit facility, the interest rates on those borrowings may vary depending on the prime rate, federal funds rate or LIBOR. If these interest rates rise, the interest rate on our variable rate debt also may increase. Therefore, an increase in these interest rates may increase our interest payment obligations and have a negative effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 