ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K because they could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risk factors highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected. 6 Table of Contents We caution the reader to keep these risk factors in mind and refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this annual report. Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. This could adversely affect our operating results. Numerous factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including: • changes in the market acceptance of our products and services; • customer and competitor consolidation; • changes in customer preferences; • declines in general economic conditions; • changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell products and services in specific markets; and • macro-economic factors affecting banks, credit unions and other financial institutions may lead to cost-cutting efforts by customers, which could cause us to lose current or potential customers or achieve less revenue per customer. If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer, and this would adversely affect our results of operations. Increased raw material and energy costs could reduce our income. The primary raw materials in our financial self-service, security and election systems product and service solutions are steel, plastics and electronic parts and components. The majority of our raw materials are purchased from various local, regional and global suppliers pursuant to long-term supply contracts. However, the price of these materials can fluctuate under these contracts in tandem with the pricing of raw materials. In addition, energy prices, particularly petroleum prices, are cost drivers for our business. In recent years, the price of petroleum has been highly volatile, particularly due to the unstable political conditions in the Persian Gulf and increasing international demand from emerging markets. Any increase in the costs of energy would also increase our transportation costs. Although we attempt to pass on higher raw material and energy costs to our customers, given the competitive markets in which we operate, it is often not possible to do this. Our business may be affected by general economic conditions and uncertainty that may cause customers to defer or cancel sales commitments previously made. Recent economic difficulties in the United States credit markets and the global markets have led to an economic recession in some or all of the markets in which we operate. A recession or even the risk of a potential recession may be sufficient reason for customers to delay, defer or cancel purchase decisions, including decisions previously made. Under difficult economic conditions, customers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products and services. This risk is magnified for capital goods purchases such as ATMs and physical security products. As a result of economic conditions and other factors, financial institutions have failed and may continue to fail resulting in a loss of current or potential customers, or deferred or cancelled sales orders. Any customer delays or cancellations could materially affect our level of revenue and operating results. Our sales and operating results are sensitive to global economic conditions and cyclicality, and could be adversely affected during economic downturns. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions and the business conditions of the industries in which we sell our products and services. The business of most of our customers, particularly our financial institution and election systems customers, is, to varying degrees, cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns. Any future downturns in general economic conditions could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and our sales and operating results. In addition, downturns in our customer’s industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, could adversely affect our sales and operating results. As a result of economic conditions and other factors, financial institutions have failed and 7 Table of Contents may continue to fail resulting in a loss of current or potential customers, or cause them to defer or cancel sales orders. Additionally, the unstable political conditions in the Persian Gulf could lead to further financial, economic and political instability, and this could lead to an additional deterioration in general economic conditions. We may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our cost-cutting initiatives, and this may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. We have launched a number of cost-cutting initiatives, including restructuring initiatives, to improve operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Although we are anticipating a substantial amount of annual cost savings associated with these cost-cutting initiatives, we may be unable to sustain the cost savings that we have achieved. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, or have any unexpected delays in achieving additional cost savings, our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. Even if we meet the goals pursuant to these initiatives, we may not receive the expected financial benefits of these initiatives. We face competition that could adversely affect our sales and financial condition. All phases of our business are highly competitive. Some of our products are in direct competition with similar or alternative products provided by our competitors. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality. Because of the potential for consolidation in any market, our competitors may become larger, which could make them more efficient and permit them to be more price-competitive. Increased size could also permit them to operate in wider geographic areas and enhance their abilities in other areas such as research and development and customer service. As a result, this could also reduce our profitability. Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. This could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Also, we may be unable to effectively anticipate and react to new entrants in the marketplace competing with our products. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. In international markets, we compete with local service providers that may have competitive advantages. In a number of international markets, especially those in Asia Pacific and Latin America, we face substantial competition from local service providers that offer competing products and services. Some of these companies may have a dominant market share in their territories and may be owned by local stakeholders. This could give them a competitive advantage. Local providers of competing products and services may also have a substantial advantage in attracting customers in their country due to more established branding in that country, greater knowledge with respect to the tastes and preferences of customers residing in that country and/or their focus on a single market. Further, the local providers may have greater regulatory and operational flexibility since we are subject to both U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements. Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are affected by risks of doing business abroad. We generate a significant percentage of revenue from sales and service operations conducted outside the United States. Revenue from international operations amounted to approximately 50.6 percent in 2008, 48.1 percent in 2007 and 46.4 percent in 2006 of total revenue during these respective periods. Accordingly, international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political and economic instability and disruptions; 8 Table of Contents • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • the imposition of duties and tariffs; • import and export controls; • changes in governmental policies and regulatory environments; • labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; • the uncertainty of product acceptance by different cultures; • the risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing joint ventures with foreign partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products, thereby, adversely affecting our financial condition or operating results. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. We may expand operations into international markets in which we may have limited experience or rely on business partners. We continually look to expand our products and services into international markets. We have currently developed, through joint ventures, strategic investments, subsidiaries and branch offices, sales and service offerings in over 90 countries outside of the United States. As we expand into new international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating products and services in such markets. In other instances, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting our products and services, and our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. The failure of governments to certify election systems products may hinder our growth and harm our business. Our election system products must go through rigorous federal and state certification processes in order for them to be sold in various states. As a result, there is a risk that our products will not be certified for use or will be decertified. Our election systems products could also be subject to differing and inconsistent laws, regulations and certification requirements which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. As a result, we may find it necessary to eliminate, modify or cancel components of our services, and this could result in additional development costs and the possible loss of revenue. Future legislative changes or other changes in law could also have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our election systems products might not achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our growth. Because of the political nature of our election systems business, various individuals and advocacy groups may raise challenges, including legal challenges, in the media and elsewhere, about the reliability and security of our election systems products and services. Our election systems business is vulnerable to these types of challenges because the electronic election systems industry is emerging. 9 Table of Contents Our ability to grow will depend on the extent to which potential customers accept our products. This acceptance may be limited by: • the failure of prospective customers to conclude that our products are valuable and should be used; • the reluctance of prospective customers to replace their existing solutions with our products; and • marketing efforts of our competitors. Furthermore, adverse publicity, whether directed at our products or a competitor’s products due to processing errors or other system failures, could adversely affect the electronic election systems industry as a whole, and this would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, these efforts may adversely affect our relations with our election systems customers. We are currently subject to shareholder class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. A number of shareholder class action lawsuits have been filed against us and certain current and former officers and directors alleging violations of the federal securities laws and breaches of fiduciary duties with respect to our 401(k) savings plan. The securities class action was dismissed and the court entered a judgment in favor of the defendants in August 2008, but the plaintiffs have appealed the court’s decision. We believe that these lawsuits are without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend against these claims. We cannot, however, determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of these claims or any future related claims, or the timing for their resolution. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially affected. Any failure to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our operating results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing arrangements, and we enter into agreements relating to such extraordinary transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates, successfully complete extraordinary transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of extraordinary transactions can be more pronounced in larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and successfully complete extraordinary transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. This may put us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include: • combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; • convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in additional obligations to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate information technology infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; 10 Table of Contents • persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating employees into the Company, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; • coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; and • achieving savings from supply chain and administration integration. We evaluate and enter into extraordinary transactions on an ongoing basis. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for extraordinary transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. Managing extraordinary transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These extraordinary transactions could result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Moreover, we could incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with extraordinary transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with an extraordinary transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing shareholders, or borrow funds, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. Any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and extraordinary transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing an extraordinary transaction and the risk that an announced extraordinary transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community’s expectations. System security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could adversely affect revenue, increase costs, and harm our reputation and stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. As a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by network security breaches. Moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers, or incur significant expenses in connection with customers’ system failures. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that could impede sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact the ability to fulfill orders and interrupt 11 Table of Contents other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect financial results, stock price and reputation. Our inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees could harm current and future operations. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, professional, administrative, technical, sales, marketing and information technology support positions. We also must keep employees focused on our strategies and goals. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in these areas can be intense. The failure to hire or loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on sales and service margins. To develop new product and service technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and service technology. In addition to cash provided from operations, we have from time to time utilized external sources of financing. Depending upon general market conditions or other factors, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. In addition, due to the recent economic downturn there has been a tightening of the credit markets, which may limit our ability to obtain alternative sources of cash to fund our operations. New product developments may be unsuccessful. We are constantly looking to develop new products and services that complement or leverage the underlying design or process technology of our traditional product and service offerings. We make significant investments in product and service technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new product development over the next several years. There can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost effectively manufacture these new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will recover costs of development efforts. An adverse determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. As is common in any high technology industry, others have asserted from time to time, and may also do so in the future, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights. A court determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes. We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us. Any of the foregoing could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice and permitting cumulative voting, may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors and may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. This could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, Ohio corporate law provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed “control share acquisition,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of our voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the “interested shares,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. The application of these provisions of the Ohio Revised Code also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. 12 Table of Contents Any SEC investigation and Department of Justice investigation could result in substantial costs to defend enforcement or other related actions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We have incurred substantial expenses for legal and accounting services due to the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investigations. We could incur substantial additional costs to defend and resolve litigation or other governmental investigations or proceedings arising out of, or related to, the completed investigations. In addition, we could be exposed to enforcement or other actions with respect to these matters by the SEC’s Division of Enforcement or the DOJ. In addition, these activities have diverted the attention of management from the conduct of our business. The diversion of resources to address issues arising out of the investigations may harm our business, operating results and financial condition in the future. Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could become materially misleading which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Management determined that, in certain instances, misapplication of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (US GAAP) reflected a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our material weaknesses could harm stockholder and business confidence in our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business. We have enhanced, and continue to enhance, our internal controls in order to remediate the material weaknesses. Implementing new internal controls and testing the internal control framework will require the dedication of additional resources, management time and expense. If we fail to establish and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market value of our securities and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. In addition, perceptions of the Company among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected. We can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Low investment performance by our domestic pension plan assets may require us to increase our pension liability and expense, which may require us to fund a portion of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses. We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans which cover certain eligible employees. Our pension expense and required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations. 13 Table of Contents Due to the significant market downturn occurring in 2008, the funded status of our pension plans has declined and actual asset returns were below the assumed rate of return used to determine pension expense. If plan assets continue to perform below expectations, future pension expense will increase. Further, as a result of the global economic instability, our pension plan investment portfolio has recently incurred greater volatility. We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligations at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. We match the projected cash flows of our pension plans against those generated by high-quality corporate bonds. The yield of the resulting bond portfolio provides a basis for the selected discount rate. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a decrease in the discount rate would increase the future pension expense. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, we anticipate that we will make a cash contribution of approximately $12 million to $15 million to our pension plans in 2009. Changes in the current assumptions and estimates could result in a contribution in years beyond 2009 that is greater than the projected 2009 contribution required. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expenses or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 