ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K because they could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risk factors highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected. We caution the reader to keep these risk factors in mind and refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. This could adversely affect our operating results. Numerous factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including: • changes in the market acceptance of our products and services; • customer and competitor consolidation; • changes in customer preferences; • declines in general economic conditions; • changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell products and services in specific markets; and • macro-economic factors affecting banks, credit unions and other financial institutions may lead to cost-cutting efforts by customers, which could cause us to lose current or potential customers or achieve less revenue per customer. If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer, and this would adversely affect our results of operations. Increased raw material and energy costs could reduce our income. The primary raw materials in our financial self-service, security and election systems product and service solutions are steel, plastics and electronic parts and components. The majority of our raw materials are purchased from various local, regional and global suppliers pursuant to long-term supply contracts. However, the price of these materials can fluctuate under these contracts in tandem with the pricing of raw materials. In addition, energy prices, particularly petroleum prices, are cost drivers for our business. In recent years, the price of petroleum has been highly volatile, particularly due to the unstable political conditions in the Persian Gulf and increasing international demand from emerging markets. Any increase in the costs of energy would also increase our transportation costs. Although we attempt to pass on higher raw material and energy costs to our customers, given the competitive markets in which we operate, it is often not possible to do this. Our business may be affected by general economic conditions, cyclicality and uncertainty and could be adversely affected during economic downturns. Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions and the business conditions of the industries in which we sell our products and services. The business of most of our customers, particularly our financial institution customers, is, to varying degrees, cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns. Under difficult economic conditions, customers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products and services. This risk is magnified for capital goods purchases such as ATMs and physical security products. In addition, downturns in our customer’s industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and our sales and operating results. 7 Table of Contents In particular, recent economic difficulties in the U.S. credit markets and the global markets have led to an economic recession in some or all of the markets in which we operate. As a result of these difficulties and other factors, financial institutions have failed and may continue to fail resulting in a loss of current or potential customers, or deferred or cancelled sales orders, including orders previously made. Any customer deferrals or cancellations could materially affect our sales and operating results. Additionally, the unstable political conditions in the Persian Gulf could lead to further financial, economic and political instability, and this could lead to an additional deterioration in general economic conditions. We may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our cost-cutting initiatives, and this may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. We have launched a number of cost-cutting initiatives, including restructuring initiatives, to improve operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Although we have achieved a substantial amount of annual cost savings associated with these cost-cutting initiatives, we may be unable to sustain the cost savings that we have achieved. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, or have any unexpected delays in achieving additional cost savings, our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. Even if we meet the goals pursuant to these initiatives, we may not receive the expected financial benefits of these initiatives. We face competition that could adversely affect our sales and financial condition. All phases of our business are highly competitive. Some of our products are in direct competition with similar or alternative products provided by our competitors. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality. Because of the potential for consolidation in any market, our competitors may become larger, which could make them more efficient and permit them to be more price-competitive. Increased size could also permit them to operate in wider geographic areas and enhance their abilities in other areas such as research and development and customer service. As a result, this could also reduce our profitability. Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. This could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Also, we may be unable to effectively anticipate and react to new entrants in the marketplace competing with our products. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. In international markets, we compete with local service providers that may have competitive advantages. In a number of international markets, especially those in Asia Pacific and Latin America, we face substantial competition from local service providers that offer competing products and services. Some of these companies may have a dominant market share in their territories and may be owned by local stakeholders. This could give them a competitive advantage. Local providers of competing products and services may also have a substantial advantage in attracting customers in their country due to more established branding in that country, greater knowledge with respect to the tastes and preferences of customers residing in that country and/or their focus on a single market. Further, the local providers may have greater regulatory and operational flexibility since we are subject to both U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements. Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are affected by risks of doing business abroad. We generate a significant percentage of revenue from sales and service operations conducted outside the United States. Revenue from international operations amounted to approximately 50.9 percent in 2009, 52.0 percent in 2008 and 49.1 percent in 2007 of total revenue during these respective years. 8 Table of Contents Accordingly, international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political and economic instability and disruptions; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • the imposition of duties and tariffs; • import and export controls; • changes in governmental policies and regulatory environments; • labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; • the uncertainty of product acceptance by different cultures; • the risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing joint ventures with foreign partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or operating results. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. Our Venezuelan operations consist of a fifty-percent owned subsidiary which is consolidated. Effective in January 2010, the Venezuelan government announced the devaluation of its currency, the bolivar fuerte, and the establishment of a two-tier exchange structure. In connection with the remeasurement of the Venezuela balance sheet, we expect to record a charge in the first quarter of 2010 to reflect this devaluation. If in the future there are changes to this exchange rate, we may realize additional gains or losses. The future results of Venezuelan operations may be affected by our ability to mitigate the effect of the devaluation, further actions by the Venezuelan government, as well as economic conditions in Venezuela such as inflation. We may expand operations into international markets in which we may have limited experience or rely on business partners. We continually look to expand our products and services into international markets. We have currently developed, through joint ventures, strategic investments, subsidiaries and branch offices, sales and service offerings in over 90 countries outside of the United States. As we expand into new international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating products and services in such markets. In other instances, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting our products and services, and our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. 9 Table of Contents Any failure to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our operating results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing arrangements, and we enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates, successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of these transactions can be more pronounced in larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. This may put us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include: • combining product and service offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced; • convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in additional obligations to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate information technology infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating employees into our company, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; • coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; and • achieving savings from supply chain and administration integration. We evaluate and enter into these types of transactions on an ongoing basis. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for these transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. Managing these types of transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These transactions could result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Moreover, we could incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with these transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing shareholders, or borrow funds, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. Any 10 Table of Contents prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with a transaction could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and such transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction and the risk that an announced transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community’s expectations. We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, we had $450.9 million of goodwill. We test all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment using the fair value approach on a “reporting unit” basis. The reporting units are defined as Domestic and Canada, Brazil, Latin America, Asia Pacific, and Europe, Middle East and Africa. The annual goodwill impairment test for 2009, 2008 and 2007 resulted in no impairment related to income from continuing operations. However, the valuation techniques used in the impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are subject to change; although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect forecasted market conditions at the assessment date. Any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods. In particular, the carrying amount of goodwill in our Brazil reporting unit was $115.4 million as of December 31, 2009, with limited excess fair value over such carrying amount. Because actual results may vary from our forecasts and such variations may be material and unfavorable, we may need to record future impairment charges with respect to the goodwill attributed to the Brazil reporting unit or other reporting units, which could adversely impact our results of operations. System security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could adversely affect revenue, increase costs, and harm our reputation and stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. As a result, we could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by network security breaches. Moreover, we could lose existing or potential customers, or incur significant expenses in connection with customers’ system failures. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that could impede sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact the ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect financial results, stock price and reputation. Our inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees could harm current and future operations. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, professional, administrative, technical, sales, marketing and information technology support positions. We also must keep employees focused on our strategies and goals. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in these areas can be intense. The failure to hire or loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on sales and service margins. To develop new product and service technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and service technology. In addition to cash provided from operations, we have from time to time utilized external sources of financing. Depending upon general market conditions or other factors, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. In addition, due to the recent economic downturn there has been a tightening of the credit markets, which may limit our ability to obtain alternative sources of cash to fund our operations. New product developments may be unsuccessful. We are constantly looking to develop new products and services that complement or leverage the underlying design or process technology of our traditional product and service offerings. We make significant investments in product and service technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new product development over the next several years. There can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost effectively manufacture these new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will recover costs of development efforts. An adverse determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. As is common in any high technology industry, others have asserted from time to time, and may also do so in the future, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights. A court determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes. We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us. Any of the foregoing could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice and permitting cumulative voting, may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors and may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. This could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, Ohio corporate law provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed “control share acquisition,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of our voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the “interested shares,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. The application of these provisions of the Ohio Revised Code also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. Any actions or other governmental investigations or proceedings related to or arising from the SEC investigation and Department of Justice investigation could result in substantial costs to defend enforcement or other related actions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In 2009, we recorded a $25.0 million charge related to an agreement in principle with the staff of the SEC to settle civil charges stemming from the staff’s pending enforcement inquiry. The agreement in principle with the staff of the SEC remains subject to the final approval of the SEC, and there can be no assurance that the SEC will accept the terms of the settlement negotiated with the staff. 12 Table of Contents We have incurred substantial expenses for legal and accounting services due to the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investigations. We could incur substantial additional costs to defend and resolve litigation or other governmental investigations or proceedings arising out of, or related to, the completed investigations. In addition, we could be exposed to enforcement or other actions with respect to these matters by the SEC’s Division of Enforcement or the DOJ. In addition, these activities have diverted the attention of management from the conduct of our business. The diversion of resources to address issues arising out of the investigations may harm our business, operating results and financial condition in the future. Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could become materially misleading which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Management identified control deficiencies as of December 31, 2009 that constituted material weaknesses. Throughout 2009, we enhanced, and will continue to enhance, our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to establish and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market value of our securities and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. In addition, perceptions of our company among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected. We can give no assurances that the measures we have taken to date, or any future measures we may take, will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Low investment performance by our domestic pension plan assets may result in an increase to our net pension liability and expense, which may require us to fund a portion of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses. We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans which cover certain eligible employees. Our pension expense and required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations. A significant market downturn could occur in future periods resulting in a decline in the funded status of our pension plans and actual asset returns to be below the assumed rate of return used to determine pension expense. If return on plan assets in future periods perform below expectations, future pension expense will increase. Further, as a result of the global economic instability, our pension plan investment portfolio has recently incurred greater volatility. We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligations at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. We match the projected cash flows of our pension plans against those generated by high-quality corporate bonds. The yield of the resulting bond portfolio 13 Table of Contents provides a basis for the selected discount rate. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a decrease in the discount rate would increase the future pension expense. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, we plan to make cash contributions totaling approximately $15 million to our pension plans in 2010. Changes in the current assumptions and estimates could result in contributions in years beyond 2010 that are greater than the projected 2010 contributions required. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expenses or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 