ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORSThe following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K because they could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risk factors highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected.We caution the reader to keep these risk factors in mind and refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K.Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which we cannot predict or control. This could adversely affect our operating results.Numerous factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including:•changes in the market acceptance of our products and services;•customer and competitor consolidation; •changes in customer preferences; •declines in general economic conditions;•changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell products and services in specific markets; •macro-economic factors affecting banks, credit unions and other financial institutions may lead to cost-cutting efforts by customers, which could cause us to lose current or potential customers or achieve less revenue per customer; and•availability of purchased products.If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer, and this would adversely affect our results of operations.Increased raw material and energy costs could reduce our income.The primary raw materials in our financial self-service, security and election systems product and service solutions are steel, plastics and electronic parts and components. The majority of our raw materials are purchased from various local, regional and global suppliers pursuant to long-term supply contracts. However, the price of these materials can fluctuate under these contracts in tandem with the pricing of raw materials.In addition, energy prices, particularly petroleum prices, are cost drivers for our business. In recent years, the price of petroleum has been highly volatile, particularly due to the unstable political conditions in the Middle East and increasing international demand from emerging markets. Price increases in fuel and electricity costs, such as those increases which may occur from climate change legislation or other environmental mandates, will continue to increase our cost of operations. Any increase in the costs of energy would also increase our transportation costs. Although we attempt to pass on higher raw material and energy costs to our customers, it is often not possible given the competitive markets in which we operate.6Table of ContentsOur business may be affected by general economic conditions, cyclicality and uncertainty and could be adversely affected during economic downturns.Demand for our products is affected by general economic conditions and the business conditions of the industries in which we sell our products and services. The business of most of our customers, particularly our financial institution customers, is, to varying degrees, cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns. Under difficult economic conditions, customers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products and services. This risk is magnified for capital goods purchases such as ATMs and physical security products. In addition, downturns in our customer’s industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and our sales and operating results. In particular, economic difficulties in the U.S. credit markets and the global markets have led to an economic recession in some or all of the markets in which we operate. As a result of these difficulties and other factors, financial institutions have failed and may continue to fail resulting in a loss of current or potential customers, or deferred or canceled sales orders, including orders previously placed. Any customer deferrals or cancellations could materially affect our sales and operating results.Additionally, the unstable political conditions in the Middle East or the sovereign debt concerns of certain countries could lead to further financial, economic and political instability, and this could lead to an additional deterioration in general economic conditions. We may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our cost-cutting initiatives, and this may adversely affect our operating results and cash flow.We have launched a number of cost-cutting initiatives, including restructuring initiatives, to improve operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Although we have achieved a substantial amount of annual cost savings associated with these cost-cutting initiatives, we may be unable to sustain the cost savings that we have achieved. In addition, if we are unable to achieve, or have any unexpected delays in achieving additional cost savings, our results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. Even if we meet our goals as a result of these initiatives, we may not receive the expected financial benefits of these initiatives.We face competition that could adversely affect our sales and financial condition.All phases of our business are highly competitive. Some of our products are in direct competition with similar or alternative products provided by our competitors. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality.Because of the potential for consolidation in any market, our competitors may become larger, which could make them more efficient and permit them to be more price-competitive. Increased size could also permit them to operate in wider geographic areas and enhance their abilities in other areas such as research and development and customer service. As a result, this could also reduce our profitability.Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products. This could cause a decline in market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Also, we may be unable to effectively anticipate and react to new entrants in the marketplace competing with our products.Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows in any given period.Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability.We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Our tax expense includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company that could affect the valuation of our net deferred tax assets. Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the Company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. If we change our intention to repatriate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments residing in international tax jurisdictions, there could be a negative impact on foreign and domestic taxes.7Table of ContentsIn international markets, we compete with local service providers that may have competitive advantages.In a number of international markets, especially those in Asia Pacific and Latin America, we face substantial competition from local service providers that offer competing products and services. Some of these companies may have a dominant market share in their territories and may be owned by local stakeholders. This could give them a competitive advantage. Local providers of competing products and services may also have a substantial advantage in attracting customers in their country due to more established branding in that country, greater knowledge with respect to the tastes and preferences of customers residing in that country and/or their focus on a single market. Further, the local providers may have greater regulatory and operational flexibility since we are subject to both U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements.Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are affected by risks of doing business abroad. We generate a significant percentage of revenue from sales and service operations conducted outside the United States. Revenue from international operations amounted to approximately 52.7 percent in 2011, 55.3 percent in 2010 and 50.9 percent in 2009 of total revenue during these respective years. Accordingly, international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including the following: •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •transportation delays and interruptions; •political and economic instability and disruptions; •restrictions on the transfer of funds; •the imposition of duties and tariffs; •import and export controls; •changes in governmental policies and regulatory environments; •disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA);•labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; •the uncertainty of product acceptance by different cultures; •the risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing joint ventures with foreign partners; •difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; •limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; •reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and •potentially adverse tax consequences, including repatriation of profits. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or decreasing the prices at which we can sell our products, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or operating results. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. Additionally, there are ongoing concerns regarding the short- and long-term stability of the euro and its ability to serve as a single currency for a variety of individual countries. These concerns could lead individual countries to revert, or threaten to revert, to their former local currencies, which could lead to the dissolution of the euro. Should this occur, the assets we hold in a country that re-introduces its local currency could be significantly devalued. Furthermore, the dissolution of the euro could cause significant volatility and disruption to the global economy, which could impact our financial results. Finally, if it were necessary for us to conduct our business in additional currencies, we would be subjected to additional earnings volatility as amounts in these currencies are translated into U.S. dollars.We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that the Company or any of its subsidiaries has violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to compliance with various laws and regulations, including the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining an unfair business advantage. The FCPA also requires proper record keeping and characterization of such payments in our reports filed with the SEC. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental and commercial corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws 8Table of Contentsmay conflict with local customs and practices. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, may not be subject to the FCPA. Accordingly, such companies may be more likely to engage in activities prohibited by the FCPA, which could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to compete for business in such countries. Despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics, we cannot ensure that our policies and procedures will always protect us from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, during the second quarter of 2010, while conducting due diligence in connection with a potential acquisition in Russia, the Company identified certain transactions and payments by its subsidiary in Russia (primarily during 2005 to 2008) that potentially implicate the FCPA, particularly the books and records provisions of the FCPA. As a result, the Company conducted a global internal review and collected information related to its global FCPA compliance. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company identified certain transactions within its Asia Pacific operation that occurred over the past several years that may also potentially implicate the FCPA. The Company continues to monitor its ongoing compliance with the FCPA. The Company has voluntarily self-reported its findings to the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and is cooperating with these agencies in their review. The Company was previously informed that the SEC's inquiry had been converted to a formal, non-public investigation. The Company also received a subpoena for documents from the SEC and a voluntary request for documents from the DOJ in connection with the investigation. Because the SEC and DOJ investigations are ongoing, there can be no assurance that their review will not find evidence of additional transactions that potentially implicate the FCPA. At this time, the Company cannot predict the results of the government investigations, and future resolution of these matters with the SEC and the DOJ could result in changes in management's estimates of losses, which could be material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements. In addition, our business opportunities in select geographies have been or may be adversely affected by these reviews and any subsequent findings. Some countries in which we do business may also initiate their own reviews and impose penalties, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions. If it is determined that a violation of the FCPA has occurred, such violation may give rise to an event of default under our loan agreements. We could also face third-party claims in connection with any such violation or as a result of the outcome of the current or any future government reviews. Our disclosure, internal review, any current or future governmental review and any findings regarding any alleged violation of the FCPA could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse affect on our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets.We may expand operations into international markets in which we may have limited experience or rely on business partners.We continually look to expand our products and services into international markets. We have currently developed, through joint ventures, strategic investments, subsidiaries and branch offices, sales and service offerings in over 90 countries outside of the United States. As we expand into new international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating products and services in such markets. In other instances, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets. Certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting our products and services, and our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment.An inability to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our operating results, business and prospects.As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing arrangements, and we enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates, successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of these transactions can be more pronounced in larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally. This may put us at a competitive disadvantage, and we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability.9Table of ContentsIntegration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include:•combining product and service offerings and entering into new markets in which we are not experienced;•convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in additional obligations to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts;•consolidating and rationalizing corporate information technology infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code;•minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns;•persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating employees into our company, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs;•coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; and•achieving savings from supply chain and administration integration.We evaluate and enter into these types of transactions on an ongoing basis. We may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for these transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable.Managing these types of transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These transactions could result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Moreover, we could incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with these transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with a transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing shareholders, or borrow funds, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. Any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with a transaction could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and such transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction and the risk that an announced transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community’s expectations.We have a significant amount of long-term assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, and any future impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations.We review long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable. If the fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference. Factors which may cause an impairment of long-lived assets include significant changes in the manner of use of these assets, negative industry or market trends, a significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, or a likely sale or disposal of the asset before the end of its estimated useful life. As of December 31, 2011, we had $253.1 million of goodwill. We assess all existing goodwill at least annually for impairment on a “reporting unit” basis. The Company’s five reporting units are defined as Domestic and Canada, Brazil, Latin America, Asia Pacific, and Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). The techniques used in our qualitative assessment and goodwill impairment tests incorporate a number of estimates and assumptions that are subject to change; although we believe these estimates and assumptions are reasonable and reflect market conditions forecast at the assessment date. Any changes to these assumptions and estimates due to market conditions or otherwise may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods. Because actual results may vary from our forecasts and such variations may be material and unfavorable, we may need to record future impairment charges with respect to the goodwill attributed to any reporting unit, which could adversely impact our results of operations.10Table of ContentsSystem security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could adversely affect revenue, increase costs, and harm our reputation and stock price.Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our own confidential information or that of our customers, corrupt data, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. A network security breach could be particularly harmful if it remained undetected for an extended period of time. Groups of hackers may also act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service attacks, or other coordinated attacks, that may cause service outages or other interruptions. We could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by network security breaches, such as the expenses of deploying additional personnel, enhancing or implementing new protection measures, training employees or hiring consultants. Further, such corrective measures may later prove inadequate. Moreover, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could cause significant reputational harm, causing us to lose existing or potential customers. Reputational damage could also result in diminished investor confidence. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may also lead to claims against us. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. We could also incur significant expenses in connection with customers’ system failures. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that could impede sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions.Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact the ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, lost customers or diminished investor confidence resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect financial results, stock price and reputation.An inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees could harm current and future operations.In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, professional, administrative, technical, sales, marketing and information technology support positions. We also must keep employees focused on our strategies and goals. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in these areas can be intense. The failure to hire or loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments.Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on sales and service margins. To develop new product and service technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, we must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and service technology. In addition to cash provided from operations, we have from time to time utilized external sources of financing. Depending upon general market conditions or other factors, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. In addition, due to the recent economic downturn there has been a tightening of the credit markets, which may limit our ability to obtain alternative sources of cash to fund our operations.New product developments may be unsuccessful.We are constantly looking to develop new products and services that complement or leverage the underlying design or process technology of our traditional product and service offerings. We make significant investments in product and service technologies and anticipate expending significant resources for new product development over the next several years. There can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost effectively manufacture these new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will recover costs of development efforts.An adverse determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.As is common in any high technology industry, others have asserted from time to time, and may assert in the future, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights. A court determination that our products or 11Table of Contentsmanufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes. We are unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against us. Any of the foregoing could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition.Changes in laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies.New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business and restrict our ability to operate our business or execute our strategies. This includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and costs associated with complying with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. For example, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC is required to adopt additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain “conflict minerals” for issuers for which such “conflict minerals” are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the proposed rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as “3TG.” Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The SEC's proposed rules, if adopted, would require us to perform supply chain due diligence on every member of our supply chain, including the mine owner and operator. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these new requirements could be substantial. These new requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us.Certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice and permitting cumulative voting, may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our Board of Directors and may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. This could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Additionally, Ohio corporate law provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed “control share acquisition,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of our voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the “interested shares,” as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. The application of these provisions of the Ohio Revised Code also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.Any actions or other governmental investigations or proceedings related to or arising from the matters that resulted in the 2009 SEC settlement, including the related SEC investigation and Department of Justice investigation, could result in substantial costs to defend enforcement or other related actions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. The Company had previously reached an agreement in principle in 2009 with the staff of the SEC to settle civil charges stemming from the staff’s enforcement inquiry. We accrued a $25.0 million penalty in the first quarter of 2009, which was paid in June 2010.We could incur substantial additional costs to defend and resolve third-party litigation or other governmental actions, investigations or proceedings arising out of, or related to, the completed investigations. In addition, we could be exposed to enforcement or other actions with respect to these matters by the SEC’s Division of Enforcement or the DOJ.In addition, these activities have diverted the attention of management from the conduct of our business. The diversion of resources to address issues arising out of the investigations may harm our business, operating results and financial condition in the future.Our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may be insufficient to allow us to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and this could cause our financial statements to become materially misleading and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.We require effective internal control over financial reporting in order to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of 12Table of Contentsfinancial statements. If we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial statements and effectively prevent fraud, our financial statements could become materially misleading which could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.Management identified control deficiencies as of December 31, 2009 that constituted material weaknesses. Throughout 2010, we enhanced, our internal control over financial reporting and as of December 31, 2010, we had remediated the material weaknesses. If we are not able to maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed.Any material weakness could affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements. As a result, our ability to obtain any additional financing, or additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and the market value of our securities and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. In addition, perceptions of our company among customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others could also be adversely affected.We can give no assurances that any additional material weaknesses will not arise in the future due to our failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In addition, although we have been successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, those controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or ensure the fair presentation of our financial statements included in our periodic reports filed with the SEC.Low investment performance by our domestic pension plan assets may result in an increase to our net pension liability and expense, which may require us to fund a portion of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses.We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover certain eligible employees. Our pension expense and required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure the defined benefit pension plan obligations.A significant market downturn could occur in future periods resulting in a decline in the funded status of our pension plans and actual asset returns to be below the assumed rate of return used to determine pension expense. If return on plan assets in future periods perform below expectations, future pension expense will increase. Further, as a result of global economic instability in recent years, our pension plan investment portfolio has been volatile.We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligations at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. We match the projected cash flows of our pension plans against those generated by high-quality corporate bonds. The yield of the resulting bond portfolio provides a basis for the selected discount rate. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a decrease in the discount rate would increase the future pension expense.Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, we plan to make cash contributions totaling approximately $15.8 million to our pension plans in 2012. Changes in the current assumptions and estimates could result in contributions in years beyond 2012 that are greater than the projected 2012 contributions required. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expenses or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses.We are currently subject to a purported class action and shareholder derivative litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flow. A purported class action lawsuit and a shareholder derivative lawsuit have been filed against us and certain current and former officers and directors alleging violations of federal and state laws, including with respect to federal securities laws. Although we believe that these lawsuits are without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend against these claims, we cannot determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of these claims or any future related claims, or the timing for their resolution. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that we may suffer, management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially affected.ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone. 13Table of Contents