ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following are certain risk factors that could affect the business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows of the company. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K because these risk factors could cause the company’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risks the company has highlighted below are not the only ones the company faces. If any of these events actually occur, the company’s business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected. The company cautions the reader to keep in mind these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report. Demand for and supply of the company’s products and services may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which the company cannot predict or control, which could adversely affect the company’s results of operations. Numerous factors may affect the demand for and supply of the company’s products and services, including: • changes in the market acceptance of the company’s products and services; • customer and competitor consolidation; • changes in customer preferences; • declines in general economic conditions; and • changes in environmental regulations that would limit the company’s ability to sell products and services in specific markets. If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of the company’s products and services could suffer, which would adversely affect the company’s results of operations. Increased raw material and energy costs could reduce the company’s income. The primary raw materials in the company’s financial self-service, security and election systems business segments are steel, plastics and electronic components. The majority of the company’s raw materials are purchased from various local, regional and global suppliers pursuant to long-term supply contracts. However, the price of these materials fluctuates under these contracts in tandem with the prices of raw materials that are used in the manufacture of the company’s products. In addition, energy prices, particularly petroleum, are cost drivers for the company’s business. In recent years, the price of petroleum has been highly volatile, particularly due to the unstable political conditions in the Persian Gulf. Any increase in the costs of energy would also increase the company’s transportation costs. Although the company attempts to pass on higher raw material and energy costs to the company’s customers, given the company’s competitive markets, it is often not possible to pass on all of these increased costs. The company’s sales and operating results are sensitive to global economic conditions and cyclicality and could be adversely affected during economic downturns. - 5 - Table of Contents Demand for the company’s products is affected by general economic conditions and the business conditions of the industries in which the company sells our products and services. The business of most of the company’s customers, particularly our financial institution and election systems customers, is, to varying degrees, cyclical and has historically experienced periodic downturns. Any future downturns in general economic conditions could adversely affect the demand for our products and services and our sales and operating results. In addition, downturns in our customers’ industries, even during periods of strong general economic conditions, could adversely affect our sales and our operating results. Additionally, the unstable political conditions in the Persian Gulf could lead to financial, economic and political instability, which could lead to a further deterioration in general economic conditions. The company may be unable to achieve, or may be delayed in achieving, our cost-cutting initiatives, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. The company has launched a number of cost-cutting initiatives, including the company’s restructuring initiatives, to improve operating efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Although the company is anticipating a substantial amount of annual cost savings associated with these cost-cutting initiatives, we may be unable to sustain the cost savings that the company has achieved. In addition, if the company is unable to achieve, or have any unexpected delays in achieving additional cost savings, the company’s results of operations and cash flow may be adversely affected. Even if the company meets the goals pursuant to these initiatives, the company may not receive the expected financial benefits of these initiatives. The company faces competition that could adversely affect our sales and financial condition. All phases of the company’s business are highly competitive; some products being in competition directly with similar products and others competing with alternative products having similar uses or producing similar results. The company encounters competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality. Because of the potential for consolidation in any market, the company’s competitors may become larger, which could make them more efficient and permit them to be more price-competitive. Increased size could also permit them to operate in wider geographic areas and enhance their abilities in other areas such as research and development and customer service, which could also reduce the company’s profitability. The company’s competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of the company’s products. In addition, the company’s competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of the company’s products as a result of intensified price competition. Also, the company may be unable to effectively anticipate and react to new entrants in the marketplace for the company’s products. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in any given period. Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are affected by risks of doing business abroad. The company generates a significant percentage of our revenue from sales and service operations conducted outside the United States. Revenue from international operations amounted to approximately 46.4% in 2006, 42.0% in 2005 and 39.7% in 2004 of total revenue during these respective periods. Accordingly, our international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad, including the following: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • transportation delays and interruptions; • political and economic instability and disruptions; • restrictions on the transfer of funds; • the imposition of duties and tariffs; • import and export controls; • changes in governmental policies and regulatory environments; • labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments; • the uncertainty of product acceptance by different cultures; • the risks of divergent business expectations or cultural incompatibility inherent in establishing joint ventures with foreign partners; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and - 6 - Table of Contents • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products, decreasing the prices at which the company can sell our products or otherwise having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The company may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which the company may be subject. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and the company may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. The failure of governments to certify election systems products may hinder our growth and harm our business. The Help America Vote Act (HAVA) required that jurisdictions have HAVA-compliant equipment by January 1, 2006; however, despite that deadline, numerous jurisdiction have not yet become HAVA-compliant. Further, individual states and municipalities have the discretion as to how they will become compliant with HAVA. It is uncertain at this time the extent to which challenges raised about reliability and security of the company’s election systems products, including the risk that such products will not be certified for use or will be decertified, could adversely effect our business, financial condition and results of operation. The company could be subject to differing and inconsistent laws, regulations and certification requirements with respect to our election systems products. If that were to happen, the company may find it necessary to eliminate, modify or cancel components of our services that could result in additional development costs and the possible loss of revenue. Future legislative changes or other changes in the laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our election systems products might not achieve market acceptance, which could adversely affect our growth. The rate at which state and local government bodies have accepted electronic voting products has varied significantly by locale. Despite the passing of the HAVA deadline, the company expects to continue to experience variations in the degree to which these programs are accepted. The company’s ability to grow will depend on the extent to which our potential customers accept our products. This acceptance may be limited by: • the failure of jurisdictions to certify our election systems products; • jurisdictions decertifying products that had previously been certified; • the failure of prospective customers to conclude that our products are valuable and should be used; • the reluctance of our prospective customers to replace their existing solutions with our products; and • marketing efforts of our competitors. Concerns about security and negative publicity regarding our election systems segment could slow acceptance of our election systems products. Because of the political nature of our election systems business, various individuals and advocacy groups may raise challenges in the media and elsewhere, including legal challenges, about the reliability and security of the company’s election systems products and services. Our election systems business is vulnerable to these types of challenges because the electronic elections systems industry is emerging. Furthermore, in the event of adverse publicity, whether directed at us or our competitors’ products, due to processing errors or other system failures, the electronic election systems industry could suffer as a whole, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these efforts may adversely affect the company’s relations with its election systems customers. The company is currently subject to securities class action litigation, the unfavorable outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A number of shareholder action lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors, alleging violations of the federal securities laws and breaches of fiduciary duties with respect to the company’s 401(k) savings plan. The company believes that these lawsuits are without merit and the company intends to defend ourselves vigorously. The company cannot, however, determine with certainty the outcome or resolution of these claims or any future related claims, or the timing for their resolution. In addition to the expense and burden incurred in defending this litigation and any damages that the company may suffer, our management’s efforts and attention may be diverted from the ordinary business operations in order to address these claims. If the final resolution of this litigation is unfavorable to us, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially adversely affected. Any failure by us to manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our business strategy, the company frequently engages in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing arrangements and enter into agreements relating to such extraordinary transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, the company must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete extraordinary transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of extraordinary - 7 - Table of Contents transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If the company failed to identify and complete successfully extraordinary transactions that further our strategic objectives, the company may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, the company may be at a competitive disadvantage or the company may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. Integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business. The challenges involved in integration include: • combining product offerings and entering into new markets in which the company is not experienced; • convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish client service standards or business focus, preventing customers and distributors from deferring purchasing decisions or switching to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; • consolidating and rationalizing corporate information technology infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code; • minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; • persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, integrating employees into the company, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; • coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; and • achieving savings from supply chain and administration integration. The company evaluates and enters into extraordinary transactions on an ongoing basis. The company may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any transaction, and the timeframe for achieving benefits of a transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, suppliers or other third parties. In addition, the pricing and other terms of our contracts for extraordinary transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time the company enters into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, the company may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately. Any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to achieve contractual obligations could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable. Managing extraordinary transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. These extraordinary transactions could result in significant costs and expenses and charges to earnings, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, asset impairment charges, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, in-process research and development charges, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. Moreover, the company could incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with extraordinary transactions, and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives acquired in connection with an extraordinary transaction becomes impaired, the company may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. In order to complete an acquisition, the company may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders, or borrow funds, affecting our financial condition and potentially our credit ratings. Any prior or future downgrades in our credit rating associated with an acquisition could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms. In addition, our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and extraordinary transactions could impact our effective tax rate. The company also may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing an extraordinary transaction and the risk that an announced extraordinary transaction may not close. As a result, any completed, pending or future transactions may contribute to financial results that differ from the investment community’s expectations. System security risks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or services provided to customers, and any such disruption could harm our revenue, increase our costs and expenses and harm our reputation and stock price. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. As a result, the company could incur significant expenses in addressing problems created by security breaches of our network. Moreover, the company could lose existing or potential customers or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that the company produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including “bugs” and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate security problems, viruses and bugs could be significant, and the efforts to address these problems could - 8 - Table of Contents result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service that could impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Portions of our information technology infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. The company may not be successful in implementing new systems, and transitioning data and other aspects of the process could be expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. In order to be successful, the company must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, the company must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, administration, technical, sales, marketing and information technology support positions. The company also must keep employees focused on our strategies and goals. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, engineers and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in these areas can be intense. The failure to hire or loss of key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. The company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. Our cash flows from operations depend primarily on sales and service margins. To develop new product and service technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, the company must make significant capital investments in manufacturing technology, facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and service technology. In addition to cash provided from operations, the company has from time to time utilized external sources of financing. Depending upon general market conditions or other factors, the company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund our operations and make adequate capital investments. New product developments may be unsuccessful. The company is constantly looking to develop new products and services that complement our traditional product and service offerings or leverage the underlying design or process technology of our traditional product and service offerings. The company makes significant investments in product and service technologies and anticipates expending significant resources for new product development over the next several years. There can be no assurance that our product development efforts will be successful, that we will be able to cost effectively manufacture these new products, that we will be able to successfully market these products or that margins generated from sales of these products will recover costs of development efforts. An adverse determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could materially adversely affect the company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. As is common in any high technology industry, from time to time, others have asserted, and may in the future assert, that our products or manufacturing processes infringe their intellectual property rights. A court determination that our products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes. The company is unable to predict the outcome of assertions of infringement made against the company. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 