ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The risks described in Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 30, 2010, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risk factors discussed below do not identify all risks that we face because our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. The Company cautions that forward-looking statements, as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on estimates, projections, beliefs and assumptions of management at the time of such statements and are not guarantees of future performance. The Company disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements based on the occurrence of future events, the receipt of new information, or otherwise. Forward-looking statements of the Company involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors. Actual future performance, outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by the Company and its management as a result of a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. 3 Table of Contents The retail merchandise business is highly competitive, and that competition could lower revenues, margins and market share. We conduct our retail merchandise business under highly competitive conditions. Although we are a large regional department store, we have numerous competitors at the national and local level that compete with our individual stores, including specialty, off-price, discount, Internet and mail-order retailers. Competition is characterized by many factors including location, reputation, fashion, merchandise assortment, advertising, price, quality, service and credit availability. We anticipate intense competition will continue. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for products, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share. Changes in economic, market and other conditions could adversely affect our operating results. The retail merchandise business is affected by changes in international, national, regional, and local economic conditions, consumer preferences and spending patterns, demographic trends, consumer confidence, consumer credit availability, weather, traffic patterns, the type, number and location of competing stores, and the effects of war or terrorist activities and any governmental responses thereto. Factors such as inflation, apparel costs, labor and benefit costs, legal claims, and the availability of management and hourly employees also affect store operations and administrative expenses. Our ability to finance new store development, improvements and additions to existing stores, and the acquisition of stores from competitors is affected by economic conditions, including interest rates and other government policies impacting land and construction costs and the availability of borrowed funds. Current store locations may become less desirable, and desirable new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any store depends substantially upon its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be desirable as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where stores are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. If we cannot obtain desirable locations at reasonable prices, our cost structure will increase and our revenues will be adversely affected. Ownership and leasing of significant amounts of real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses. We own the land and building, or lease the land and/or the building, for all of our stores. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with owning and leasing real estate. In particular, the value of the assets could decrease, and their operating costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends and supply or demand for the use of the store, which may result from competition from similar stores in the area, as well as liability for environmental conditions. If an existing owned store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be required to record an impairment charge and/or exit costs associated with the disposal of the store. We generally cannot cancel our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of the leases expires, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. We may not be able to close an unprofitable owned store due to an existing operating covenant which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. We have approximately 78 stores along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts that are covered by third party insurance but are self-insured for property and merchandise losses related to "named storms"; therefore, repair and replacement costs will be borne by us for damage to any of these stores from "named storms". 4 Table of Contents We rely on third party suppliers to obtain materials and provide production facilities from which we source our merchandise. We may experience supply problems such as unfavorable pricing or untimely delivery of merchandise. The price and availability of materials from suppliers can be adversely affected by factors outside of our control, such as increased worldwide demand. Further, our suppliers who also serve the retail industry may experience financial difficulties due to a downturn in the industry or in other macroeconomic environments, such as credit markets, stifling their ability to obtain borrowed funds necessary to finance their operations. These supplier risks may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may evaluate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives, any of which could distract management or otherwise have a negative effect on revenues, costs and stock price. Our future success may depend on opportunities to buy or obtain rights to other businesses or technologies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. In particular, we intend to evaluate potential mergers, acquisitions, joint venture investments, strategic initiatives, alliances, vertical integration opportunities and divestitures. Our attempt to engage in these transactions may expose us to various inherent risks, including: •assessing the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of acquisition candidates; •the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business; •the ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies; •difficulties successfully integrating, operating, maintaining and managing newly acquired operations or employees; •difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; •unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions affecting an acquired business; •the possibility of impairment charges if an acquired business performs below expectations; and •the diversion of management's attention from the existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or to implement the strategic initiative. Our annual and quarterly financial results may fluctuate depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline. Our sales and operating results can vary from quarter to quarter and year to year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. Certain events and factors may directly and immediately decrease demand for our products or increase operating costs. If customer demand decreased or if operating costs increased rapidly, our results of operations would also decline precipitously. The recent passage of health care legislation will cause the Company's operating costs to rise in fiscal 2014 and beyond. The Company is currently in the process of assessing the extent of the effect of the legislation on its operating costs. Other events and factors include: •changes in competitive and economic conditions generally; •variations in the timing and volume of our sales; •sales promotions by us or our competitors; 5 Table of Contents •changes in average same-store sales and customer visits; •changes in legislation, affecting such matters as credit card income; •variations in the price, availability and shipping costs of merchandise; •seasonal effects on demand for our products; •changes in the cost or availability of material or labor; and •weather and acts of God. Litigation from customers, employees and others could harm our reputation and impact operating results. Lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, from customers alleging discrimination. We are also susceptible to claims filed by customers alleging responsibility for injury suffered during a visit to a store. Further, we may be subject to other claims in the future based on, among other things, employee discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination and wage issues, including those relating to overtime compensation. These types of claims, as well as other types of lawsuits to which we are subject from time to time, can distract management's attention from core business operations and/or negatively impact operating results. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts, public health issues, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes or other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt international trade and supply chain efficiencies, suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. These events could result in property losses, reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from suppliers. Variations in the amount of vendor allowances received could adversely impact our operating results. We receive vendor allowances for advertising, payroll and margin maintenance that are a strategic part of our operations. A reduction in the amount of cooperative advertising allowances would likely cause us to consider other methods of advertising as well as the volume and frequency of our product advertising, which could increase/decrease our expenditures and/or revenue. Decreased payroll reimbursements would either cause payroll costs to rise, negatively impacting operating income, or cause us to reduce the number of employees, which may cause a decline in sales. A decline in the amount of margin maintenance allowances would either increase cost of sales, which would negatively impact gross margin and operating income, or cause us to reduce merchandise purchases, which may cause a decline in sales. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial condition. The protection of customer, employee and Company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. We receive certain personal information about our customers and employees. In addition, our online operations at www.dillards.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems that results in personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, employees and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require 6 Table of Contents that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. Changes in the income and cash flow from our long-term marketing and servicing alliance related to our proprietary credit cards could impact operating results and cash flows. GE owns and manages our proprietary credit cards under the Alliance that expires in fiscal 2014. The Alliance provides for certain payments to be made by GE to the Company, including a revenue sharing and marketing reimbursement. The income and cash flow that the Company receives from the Alliance is dependent upon a number of factors including the level of sales on GE accounts, the level of balances carried on the GE accounts by GE customers, payment rates on GE accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on GE accounts, the level of credit losses for the GE accounts, GE's ability to extend credit to our customers as well as GE's funding costs, all of which can vary based on changes in federal and state banking and consumer protection laws and from a variety of economic, legal, social, and other factors that we cannot control. The percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues may result in material adjustments, which could result in a charge against our earnings. Our construction segment recognizes contract revenues using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, estimated contract revenues are recognized by applying the percentage of completion of the project for the period to the total estimated revenues for the contract. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Total contract revenues and cost estimates are reviewed and revised at a minimum on a quarterly basis as the work progresses and as change orders are approved. Adjustments based upon the percentage of completion are reflected in contract revenues in the period when these estimates are revised. To the extent that these adjustments result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of previously reported contract profit, we recognize a credit or a charge against current earnings, which could be material. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 7 Table of Contents 