Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information provided in this Report, the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating results of our operations, future prospects and an investment in shares of our Common Stock. Any of these factors could cause our actual financial results to differ materially from our historical results, and could give rise to events that might have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The floorcovering industry is cyclical and prolonged declines in residential or commerc ial construction activity or corporate remodeling and refurbishment could have a material adverse effect on our business. The U.S. floorcovering industry is cyclical and is influenced by a number of general economic factors. In general, the industry is dependent on residential and commercial construction activity, including new construction as well as remodeling. New construction is cyclical in nature. To a somewhat lesser degree, this also is true with residential and commercial remodeling. A Table of contents Page 6 prolonged decline in new construction or remodeling activity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The level of commercial and residential activity in these industries is significantly affected by numerous factors, all of which are beyond our control, including among others: • consumer confidence;• housing demand;• financing availability;• national and local economic conditions;• interest rates;• employment levels;• changes in disposable income;• commercial rental vacancy rates; and• federal and state income tax policies. Our product concentration in the higher-end of the residential and commercial markets could significantly affect the impact of these factors on our business. We have significant levels of indebtedness that must be repaid or refinanced. Our 7% convertible subordinated debentures must either be paid or refinanced and reserved by January 15, 2012. If these actions are not taken by that time, the payments on our amended and restated senior loan and security agreement will accelerate on that date rather than the current termination date of May 11, 2013. If our cash flow or profitability are insufficient, the value of our assets securing our loans are insufficient or we are unable to access the debt or equity markets at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts, it could materially adversely affect our ability to pay off or refinance our debts and generate sufficient funds to satisfy the terms of the debentures or the senior loan and security agreement. We face intense competition in our industry, which could decrease demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The floorcovering industry is highly competitive. We face competition from a number of domestic manufacturers and independent distributors of floorcovering products and, in certain product areas, foreign manufacturers. There has been significant consolidation within the floorcovering industry during recent years that has caused a number of our existing and potential competitors to be significantly larger and have significantly greater resources and access to capital than we do. Maintaining our competitive position may require us to make substant ial additional investments in our product development efforts, manufacturing facilities, distribution network and sales and marketing activities, which may be limited by our access to capital, as well as restrictions set forth in our credit facilities. Competitive pressures may also result in decreased demand for our products and in the loss of market share. In addition, we face, and will continue to face, pressure on sales prices of our products from competitors. As a result of any of these factors, there could be a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Raw material prices may increase. The cost of raw materials has a significant impact on our profitability. In particular, our business requires the purchase of large volumes of nylon and polyester yarn, as well as wool yarns, synthetic backing, latex, and dyes. Increases in the cost of these raw materials could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to pass these increases through to our customers. We believe we are generally successful in passing along raw material and other cost increases as they may occur; however, there can be no assurance that we will successfully recover such increases in cost. Unanticipated termination or interruption of our arrangements with third-party suppliers of nylon yarn could have a material adverse effect on us. Nylon yarn is the principal raw material used in our floorcovering products. A significant portion of such yarn is purchased from one supplier. We believe there are other sources of nylon yarns; however, an unanticipated termination or interruption of our supply arrangements could adversely affect such arrangements and could be material. Environmental, safety and health regulatory governance. Various federal, state and local environmental laws govern the use of our current and former facilities. These laws govern such matters as: • Discharges to air and water;• Handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and waste; and• Remediation of contamination from releases of hazardous substances in our facilities and off-site disposal locations. Our operations also are governed by laws relating to workplace safety and worker health, which, among other things, establish Table of contentsPage 7 noise standards and regulate the use of hazardous materials and chemicals in the workplace. We have taken, and will continue to take, steps to comply with these laws. If we fail to comply with present or future environmental or safety regulations, we could be subject to additional future liabilities. However, we cannot ensure that complying with these environmental or health and safety laws and requirements will not adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future laws, ordinances or regulations could give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acts of Terrorism. Our business could be materially adversely affected as a result of international conflicts or acts of terrorism. Terrorist acts or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our facilities, employees, customers, suppliers, and distributors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Such conflicts also may cause damage or disruption to transportation and communication systems and to our ability to manage logistics in such an environment, including receipt of supplies and distribution of products.& nbsp;Unanticipated Business Interruptions. Our business could be adversely affected if a significant portion of our plant, equipment or operations were damaged or interrupted by a casualty, condemnation, utility service, work stoppage or other event beyond our control. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 