Item 1A. Risk Factors There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our global operations that involve the manufacturing and sale of products for highly demanding Customer applications throughout the world. These risks and uncertainties could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. The following discussion, along with discussions elsewhere in this report, outlines the risks and uncertainties that we believe are the most material to our business at this time. We want to further highlight the risks and uncertainties associated with: world economic factors and conditions, the ongoing global economic uncertainty, the reduced demand for hard disk drive products with the increased use of flash memory, the potential for some Customers to increase their reliance on their own filtration capabilities, currency fluctuations, commodity prices, political factors, our international operations, highly competitive markets, inability to hire and retain key employees, governmental laws and regulations, including the impact of the various economic stimulus and financial reform measures, the implementation of our new information technology systems, failure or breach of information technology and trade secret security, potential global events resulting in market instability, including financial bailouts and defaults of sovereign nations, military and terrorist activities including political unrest in the Middle East, other political changes, health outbreaks, natural disasters, and other factors discussed below. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Operating internationally carries risks which could negatively affect our financial performance. We have sales and manufacturing operations throughout the world, with the heaviest concentrations in the Americas, Europe, and Asia. Our stability, growth, and profitability are subject to a number of risks of doing business internationally that could harm our business, including: ·political and military events, ·legal and regulatory requirements, including import, export, defense regulations, anti-corruption laws, and foreign exchange controls, ·tariffs and trade barriers, ·potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, ·credit risk of local Customers and distributors, ·difficulties in protecting intellectual property, ·local economic, political, and social conditions, specifically in the Middle East, China, Thailand, and other emerging markets where we do business, ·potential global health outbreaks, and ·natural disasters. 3 Table of Contents Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations. Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation, and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States (U.S.). In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business, and results of operations or financial condition. Maintaining a competitive advantage requires continuing investment with uncertain returns. We operate in highly competitive markets and have numerous competitors who may already be well-established in those markets. We expect our competitors to continue improving the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products that could be competitive in both price and performance. We believe that we have certain technological advantages over our competitors, but maintaining these advantages requires us to continually invest in research and development, sales and marketing, and Customer service and support. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining these advantages. We make investments in new technologies that address increased performance and regulatory requirements around the globe. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing development or achieving sales of these products or that the margins on such products will be acceptable. Our financial performance may be negatively impacted if a competitor’s successful product innovation reaches the market before ours or gains broader market acceptance. A few of our major OEM Customers also manufacture filtration systems. Although these OEM Customers rely on us and other suppliers for some of their filtration systems, they sometimes choose to manufacture additional filtration systems for their own use. There is also a risk that a Customer could acquire one or more of our competitors. We may be adversely impacted by changes in technology that could reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. These risks include: ·breakthroughs in technology which provide a viable alternative to diesel engines ·reduced demand for disk drive products by flash memory or a similar technology, which would reduce the use of disk drives and therefore eliminate the need for our filtration solutions in disk drives ·other breakthroughs in filtration technologies that could displace our products Difficulties with our information technology systems and security could adversely affect our results. We have many information technology systems that are important to the operation of its businesses, some of which are managed by third parties. These systems are used to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems, maintaining and upgrading existing systems, and preventing information security breaches. There may be other challenges and risks as we upgrade and standardize our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system on a worldwide basis. Such difficulties could lead to significant additional expenses and/or disruption in business operations that could adversely affect our results. Additionally, information technology security threats are increasing in frequency and sophistication. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. Should such an attack succeed, it could lead to the compromising of confidential information, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes, and operations disruptions. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our reputation, and could result in litigation, regulatory action, potential liability, and increased costs and operational consequences of implementing further data protection matters. 4 Table of Contents Demand for our products relies on economic and industrial conditions worldwide. Changes in economic or industrial conditions could impact our results of operations or financial condition in any particular period as our business can be sensitive to varying conditions by region across the globe. While sales to Caterpillar accounted for slightly less than 10 percent of our net sales in Fiscal 2013, 2012, and 2011, an adverse change in Caterpillar’s financial performance or a material reduction in our sales to Caterpillar could negatively impact our operating results. We participate in highly competitive markets with pricing pressure. If we are not able to compete effectively our margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. The businesses and product lines in which we participate are very competitive and we risk losing business based on a wide range of factors including technology, price, geographic coverage, product performance, and Customer service. Large Customers continue to seek productivity gains and lower prices from us and their other suppliers. We may lose business or negatively impact our margins if we are unable to deliver the best value to our Customers. Changes in our product mix impacts our financial performance. We sell products that have varying profit margins. Our financial performance can be impacted depending on the mix of products we sell during a given period. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted. Unavailable or higher cost materials could impact our financial performance. We obtain raw materials including steel, filter media, petroleum-based products, and other components from third-party suppliers and tend to carry limited raw material inventories. An unanticipated delay in delivery by our suppliers could result in the inability to deliver on-time and meet the expectations of our Customers. This could negatively affect our financial performance. An increase in commodity prices could also result in lower operating margins. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results and financial position. We have operations in many countries. Each of our subsidiaries reports its results of operations and financial position in its relevant functional currency, which is then translated into U.S. dollars. This translated financial information is included in our consolidated financial statements. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar in comparison to the foreign currencies of our subsidiaries could have a negative impact on our results and financial position. Acquisitions may have an impact on our results. We have made and continue to pursue acquisitions. We cannot guarantee that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our results. These acquisitions could negatively impact our profitability due to operating and integration inefficiencies, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. There are also a number of other risks involved in acquisitions. We could lose key existing Customers, have difficulties in assimilating the acquired operations, assume unanticipated legal liabilities, or lose key employees. Costs associated with lawsuits or investigations may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to many laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We routinely incur costs in order to comply with these laws and regulations. We may be adversely impacted by new or changing laws and regulations that affect both our operations and our ability to develop and sell products that meet our Customers’ requirements. We are involved in various product liability, product warranty, intellectual property, environmental claims, and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business. It is not possible to predict the outcome of investigations and lawsuits, and we could incur judgments, fines, or penalties or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition in any particular period. 5 Table of Contents Additional tax expense or tax exposure could impact our financial performance. We are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax liabilities are dependent upon the location of earnings among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns tax authorities. The results of audit and examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the Company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. Compliance with environmental and product laws and regulations can be costly. We are subject to many environmental and product laws and regulations in the jurisdiction we operate. We routinely incur costs in order to comply with these laws and regulations. We may be adversely impacted by new or changing laws and regulations that affect both our operations and our ability to develop and sell products that meet our Customers’ requirements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 