Item 1A. RISK FACTORS There are inherent risks and uncertainties associated with our global operations that involve manufacturing and sale of products for highly demanding Customer applications throughout the world. The risks and uncertainties associated with our business could adversely affect our operating performance and financial condition. The following discussion along with discussions elsewhere in this report outlines the risks and uncertainties that we believe are the most material to our business. However, these are not the only risks or uncertainties that could affect our business. Therefore, the following is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Operating internationally carries risks which could negatively effect our financial performance. We have sales and manufacturing operations throughout the world, with the heaviest concentrations in North America, Europe and Asia. Our stability, growth and profitability are subject to a number of risks of doing business internationally that could harm our business, including: • political and military events, • legal and regulatory requirements, including import, export and defense regulations, • tariffs and trade barriers, • potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, • credit risk of local Customers and distributors, • difficulties in protecting intellectual property, and • local economic, political and social conditions, specifically in China where we have significant investments in both our Engine and Industrial Products segments. Maintaining a competitive advantage requires continuing investment with uncertain returns. We operate in highly competitive markets and have numerous competitors who may already be well established in those markets. We experience price pressures from these competitors in certain product lines and geographic markets. We expect our competitors to continue improving the design and performance of their products and to introduce new products that are competitive in both price and performance. We believe that we have certain technological advantages over our competitors but maintaining these advantages requires us to continually invest in research and development, sales and marketing and Customer service and support. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in maintaining these advantages. We are currently making investments in emissions technology development and potential new emission systems products to meet the changing regulatory requirements worldwide. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing development or achieving sales of these products or that the margins on such products will be acceptable. Our financial performance may be negatively impacted if a competitor’s successful product innovation reaches the market before ours or gains broader market acceptance. A number of our major OEM Customers manufacture component products for their own use. Although these OEM Customers rely on us and other suppliers for other of their component products, 3 Table of Contents they sometimes choose to manufacture additional component products for their own use. There is also a risk that a Customer could acquire one or more of our competitors. We may be adversely impacted by changes in technology that could reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. We are at risk with respect to: • Breakthroughs in technology which provide a viable alternative to diesel engines. • Reduced demand for disk drive products if our Customers further develop flash memory or a similar technology which would eliminate the need for filtration solutions. We participate in highly competitive markets with pricing pressure. If we are not able to compete effectively our margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. The businesses and product lines in which we participate are very competitive and we risk losing business based on a wide range of factors, including price, delivery, service, product performance and Customer satisfaction. Large Customers continue to seek productivity gains and lower prices from their suppliers. We may lose business or negatively impact our margins if we are unable to deliver value to our Customers through our technology and innovation and our product cost reduction and lean improvement efforts in manufacturing and throughout the Company. Demand for our products relies on economic and industrial conditions worldwide. Demand for certain of our products tends to be cyclical and responds to varying levels of construction, agricultural, mining and industrial activity in the United States and in other industrialized nations. Sales to Caterpillar, Inc. and its subsidiaries accounted for 10 percent of our net sales in the most recent year and greater than 10 percent in the previous three fiscal years. An adverse change in Caterpillar’s financial performance or a material reduction in our sales to it could negatively impact our operating results. Changes in our product mix impacts our financial performance. We sell products in various product lines that have varying profit margins. Our financial performance can be impacted positively or negatively depending on the mix of products we sell during a given period as compared to a previous period. Unavailable or higher cost materials could result in our Customers being dissatisfied. We obtain raw material, including a significant amount of various grades and types of steel, and certain manufactured components from third-party suppliers and tend to carry limited raw material inventories. Even a brief unanticipated delay in delivery or increases in prices by our suppliers could result in the inability to satisfy our Customers on delivery and pricing. This could negatively affect our financial performance. Unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. We have operations in many countries. Each of our subsidiaries reports its results of operations and financial position in its relevant foreign currency, which is then translated into United States dollars. The translated financial information is included in our consolidated financial statements. The strengthening of the United States dollar in comparison to the foreign currencies of our subsidiaries could have a negative impact on our results of operations or financial position. Acquisitions may not necessarily have a positive impact on our results. We have made and continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary product lines, technologies and businesses. We cannot guarantee that these acquisitions will have a positive impact on our results. These acquisitions could negatively impact our profitability due to operating and integration inefficiencies, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. There are also a number of risks involved in acquisitions. For example, we could lose key existing or 4 Table of Contents potential Customers, have difficulties in assimilating the acquired operations, assume unanticipated legal liabilities or lose key employees of the acquired company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can be costly. We are subject to many environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We incur product development capital and operating costs in order to comply with these laws and regulations. We may be adversely impacted by new or changing environmental laws and regulations that affect both our operations and our ability to develop and sell products that meet our Customers’ product and performance requirements. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 