ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks. Risks Relating to the Businesses of the Company Global market and economic conditions, as well as the effects of these conditions on customers’ businesses could adversely affect the Company. Global economic conditions affect customers’ businesses and the markets they serve. Demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the markets customers serve. Because a significant part of the Company’s business relies on its customers’ advertising spending, a prolonged downturn in the global economy and an uncertain economic outlook could further reduce the demand for printing and related services that the Company provides to these customers. Economic weakness and constrained advertising spending may result in decreased revenue, operating margin, earnings and growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collecting accounts receivable. The Company may experience reduced demand for its products and services due to economic conditions and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumers’ and businesses’ spending behavior. In addition, customer difficulties could result in increases in bad debt write-offs and allowances for doubtful accounts receivable. In particular, the Company’s exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties and certain financially troubled customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company may experience operating margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive price pressures, inventory write-downs, cost increases for wages and materials, and increases in pension and other postretirement benefits plan funding requirements. Economic downturns may also result in restructuring actions and associated expenses and impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for the Company to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in customers’ spending would have an adverse effect on demand for the Company’s products and services, which could be material, and consequently impact the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flow. Adverse credit market conditions may limit the Company’s ability to obtain future financing. Uncertainty and volatility in global financial markets may cause financial markets institutions to fail or may cause lenders to hoard capital and reduce lending. The failure of a financial institution that supports the Company’s existing credit agreement would reduce the size of its committed facility unless a replacement institution were added. The Company’s operating performance and creditworthiness may limit its ability to obtain future financing and the cost of any such capital may be higher than in past periods. The Company’s access to future financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the general availability of credit, its credit ratings and credit capacity at the time it pursues such financing. The Company’s current Corporate credit ratings are below investment grade and, as a result, the Company’s borrowing costs may further increase or ability to borrow may be limited. The Company’s obligations under its current $1.15 billion senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) which expires October 15, 2017, are guaranteed by material and certain other domestic subsidiaries and are secured by a pledge of the equity interests of certain subsidiaries, including most of its domestic subsidiaries, and a security interest in substantially all of the domestic current assets and mortgages of certain domestic real property of the Company. The Credit Agreement is subject to a number of covenants, including a minimum Interest Coverage Ratio and a maximum Leverage Ratio, that, in part, restrict the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, engage in mergers and consolidations, make restricted payments, dispose of certain assets and may also limit the use of proceeds. The Credit Agreement generally allows annual dividend payments of up to $200.0 million in aggregate, though additional dividends may be allowed subject to certain conditions. If adequate capital is not available to the Company and its internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, or if future financings require more restrictive covenants, such combination of events could adversely affect the Company’s ability to (i) acquire new businesses or enter new markets, (ii) service or refinance its existing debt, (iii) pay dividends on common stock, (iv) make necessary capital investments, and (v) make other expenditures necessary for the ongoing conduct of its business. The indentures governing the notes and debentures the Company issues do not contain restrictive covenants and the Company may incur substantially more debt or take other actions, including engaging in mergers and acquisitions, paying dividends and making other distributions to holders of equity securities, and disposing of certain assets, which may adversely affect the Company’s ability to satisfy its obligations under the notes and debentures issued under its indentures. Although the Credit Agreement is subject to a number of negative and financial covenants, including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, and covenants that restrict the Company’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, engage in mergers and acquisitions, pay dividends and make other distributions to the holders of the Company’s equity securities, and dispose of certain assets, the indentures governing the Company’s notes and debentures do not contain financial or operating covenants or restrictions on the incurrence of indebtedness, the payment of dividends or making other distributions, or the disposition 9 of certain assets. In addition, the limited covenants applicable to the notes and debentures do not require the Company to achieve or maintain any minimum financial results relating to its financial position or results of operations. In carrying out the Company’s strategy focused on maximizing long-term shareholder value, the Company may enter into transactions which may increase its financial leverage. The Company’s ability to recapitalize, incur additional debt and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indentures governing its notes and debentures could have the effect of diminishing the Company’s ability to make payments on those notes and debentures when due, and require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund the Company’s operations, working capital and capital expenditures. Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials may adversely impact the Company. Purchases of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials represent a large portion of the Company’s costs. Increases in the costs of these inputs may increase the Company’s costs and the Company may not be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. In addition, the Company may not be able to resell waste paper and other print-related by-products or may be adversely impacted by decreases in the prices for these by-products. Increases in the cost of materials may adversely impact customers’ demand for the Company’s printing and related services. The Company may be adversely affected by a decline in the availability of raw materials. The Company is dependent on the availability of paper, ink and other raw materials to support its operations. Unforeseen developments in these markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper, ink or other raw materials and could cause a decline in the Company’s revenues. The financial condition of the Company’s customers may deteriorate. Many of the Company’s customers participate in highly competitive markets, and their financial condition may deteriorate as a result. A decline in the financial condition of the Company’s customers would hinder the Company’s ability to collect amounts owed by customers. In addition, such a decline would result in lower demand for the Company’s products and services. A lack of liquidity in the capital markets or a sustained period of unfavorable economic conditions will increase the Company’s exposure to credit risks and result in increases in bad debt write-offs and allowances for doubtful accounts receivable. The Company may be unable to improve its operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions. Because the markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, the Company must continue to improve its operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve its profitability. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology. The Company may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon the Company’s ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and the Company may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company. In addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the Company’s businesses and the loss of key personnel from the Company or the acquired businesses. Further, employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may disrupt the businesses of the Company or the acquired businesses. The Company’s strategy is, in part, predicated on the Company’s ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of the Company’s products and services. Achieving these cost savings and revenue increases is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. In particular, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits of more comprehensive product and service offerings, anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization and systems integration. 10 The Company may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including management. The Company’s success depends, in part, on its general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of the Company’s employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a serious negative effect on the Company. Various locations may encounter competition with other manufacturers for skilled labor. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices than the Company offers. In addition, many members of the Company’s management have significant industry experience that is valuable to the Company’s competitors. The Company enters into non-solicitation and, as appropriate, non-competition agreements with its executive officers, prohibiting them contractually from soliciting the Company’s customers and employees and from leaving and joining a competitor within a specified period. If one or more members of the Company’s senior management team leave and cannot be replaced with a suitable candidate quickly, the Company could experience difficulty in managing its business properly, which could harm business prospects and the Company’s consolidated results of operations. The trend of increasing costs to provide health care and other benefits to the Company’s employees and retirees may continue. The Company provides health care and other benefits to both employees and retirees. For many years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, the Company’s cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting the Company’s profitability. Changes to health care regulations in the U.S. may also increase the Company’s cost of providing such benefits. Changes in market conditions or lower returns on assets may increase required pension and other postretirement benefits plan contributions in future periods. The funded status of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefits plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of certain market interest rates. As experienced in prior years, declines in the market value of the securities held by the plans coupled with historically low interest rates have reduced, and in the future could materially reduce, the funded status of the plans. These reductions have increased the level of expected required pension and other postretirement benefits plan contributions in future years. Market conditions may lead to changes in the discount rates used to value the year-end benefit obligations of the plans, which could partially mitigate or worsen the effects of lower asset returns. If adverse market conditions were to continue for an extended period of time, the Company’s costs and required cash contributions associated with pension and other postretirement benefits plans may substantially increase in future periods. There are risks associated with operations outside the United States. The Company has significant operations outside the United States. Revenues from the Company’s operations in geographic regions outside the United States accounted for approximately 25% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2013. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including the impact of economic and political instability of those countries in which the Company operates. The volatile economic environment has increased the risk of disruption and losses resulting from hyper-inflation, currency devaluation and tax or regulatory changes in certain countries in which the Company has operations. The Company is exposed to significant risks related to potential adverse changes in currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risks resulting from changes in the currency exchange rates of the currencies in the countries in which it does business. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the operating results of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into the Company’s consolidated financial statements. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues and expenses or other transactions are not in the applicable local currency, the Company may enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. Management cannot be sure, however, that the Company’s efforts at hedging will be successful, and such efforts could, in certain circumstances, lead to losses. A decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company could result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. The Company holds material amounts of goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets on its balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability, particularly if there is a decline in the global economy, could call into question the recoverability of the Company’s related goodwill, other long-lived tangible and intangible assets or deferred tax assets and require the write down or write off these assets or, in the case of deferred tax assets, recognition of a valuation allowance through a charge to income. Such an occurrence has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 11 Risks Related to the Printing and Related Services Industry The highly competitive market for the Company’s products and industry consolidation may continue to create adverse price pressures. The markets for the majority of the Company’s product categories are highly fragmented and the Company has a large number of competitors. Management believes that excess capacity in the Company’s markets has caused downward price pressure and that this trend is likely to continue. In addition, consolidation in the markets in which the Company competes may increase competitive price pressures due to competitors lowering prices as a result of synergies achieved. The substitution of electronic delivery for printed materials may continue to adversely affect the Company’s businesses. Electronic delivery of documents and data, including the online distribution and hosting of media content, offer alternatives to traditional delivery of printed documents. Consumers continue to accept electronic substitution in directory and statement printing and are replacing traditional reading of print materials with online, hosted media content or e-reading devices. The extent to which consumers will continue to accept electronic delivery is uncertain and it is difficult to predict future rates of acceptance of these alternatives. Electronic delivery has negatively impacted the Company’s products, such as directories, books, forms and statement printing. Digital technologies have also impacted printed magazines, as advertising spending has moved from print to electronic media. To the extent that consumers, customers and regulators continue to accept these alternatives, the Company’s products will be adversely affected. Changes in the rules and regulations to which the Company is subject may increase the Company’s costs. The Company is subject to numerous rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, product safety, environmental and health and welfare benefit regulations. These rules and regulations may be changed by local, state or federal governments in countries in which the Company operates. Changes in these regulations may result in a significant increase in the Company’s costs to comply. Compliance with changes in rules and regulations could require increases to the Company’s workforce, increased cost for compensation and benefits, or investments in new or upgraded equipment. In addition, growing concerns about climate change, including the impact of global warming, may result in new regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide) and/or “cap and trade” legislation. Compliance with new rules and regulations or changes in existing rules and regulations could result in additional costs to the Company. Declines in general economic conditions or political unrest may adversely impact the Company’s business. In general, demand for the Company’s products and services are highly correlated with general economic conditions. Declines in economic conditions in the U.S. or in other countries in which the Company operates may adversely impact the Company’s consolidated financial results. Because such declines in demand are difficult to predict, the Company or the industry may have increased excess capacity as a result. An increase in excess capacity may result in declines in prices for the Company’s products and services. The overall business climate may also be impacted by wars or acts of terrorism. Such acts may have sudden and unpredictable adverse impacts on demand for the Company’s products and services. Changes in the rules and regulations to which customers are subject may impact demand for the Company’s products and services. Many of the Company’s customers are subject to rules and regulations requiring certain printed or electronic communications, governing the form of such communications and protecting the privacy of consumers. Changes in these regulations may impact customers’ business practices and could reduce demand for the Company’s printed products and related services. Changes in such regulations could eliminate the need for certain types of printed communications altogether or such changes may impact the quantity or format of printed communications. Changes in postal rates, regulations and delivery structure may adversely impact demand for the Company’s products and services. Postal costs are a significant component of many of the Company’s customers’ cost structures and postal rate changes can influence the number of pieces and types of mailings that the Company’s customers mail. On December 24, 2013, the PRC approved the USPS Board of Governors’ request for price increases of 4.3%. This exigent rate increase was implemented in addition to a 1.7% rate increase, equal to the CPI, for total price increases of 6.0%, on average, across all mail categories, effective January 26, 2014. In addition, the USPS has incurred significant financial losses in recent years and may, as a result, implement significant changes to the breadth or frequency of its mail delivery. The USPS is continuing to pursue its previously announced plans to restructure its mail delivery network, including the closure of many post office facilities and suspension of Saturday service. On April 10, 2013, the USPS announced a delay in the shift to a five-day mail and six-day package delivery schedule that was initially scheduled for August 2013, until legislation is passed that provides the authority to do so. The impact to the Company of the USPS’s restructuring plans, many of which require legislative action, cannot currently be estimated. If implemented, such changes could impact customers’ ability or willingness to communicate by mail. Declines in print volumes mailed would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. 12 Changes in the advertising, retail and capital markets may impact the demand for printing and related services. Many of the end markets in which customers of the Company compete are experiencing changes due to technological progress and changes in consumer preferences. The Company cannot predict the impact that these changes will have on demand for the Company’s products and services. Such changes may decrease demand, increase price pressures, require investment in updated equipment and technology, or cause other adverse impacts to the Company’s business. In addition, the Company must monitor changes in its customers’ markets and develop new solutions to meet customers’ needs. The development of such solutions may be costly, and there is no assurance that these solutions will be accepted by customers. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 