ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include, but are not limited to, the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should carefully consider all of these risks. Risks Relating to the Businesses of the Company The recent global market and economic conditions, as well as the effects of these conditions on our customers’ businesses, has adversely affected the Company and those effects could continue. Global economic conditions affect our customers’ businesses and the markets they serve. Demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the markets our customers serve. Because a significant part of our business relies on our customers’ advertising spending, the prolonged downturn in the global economy and an uncertain economic outlook has reduced the demand for printing and related services that we provide these customers. Economic weakness and constrained advertising spending have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings and growth rates and difficulty in managing inventory levels and collecting accounts receivable. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, reduced demand for our businesses due to the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, access to credit and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. In addition, customer difficulties have resulted, and will result in the future, in increases in bad debt write-offs and our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable. In particular, our exposure to certain industries currently experiencing financial difficulties and certain financially troubled customers could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. We also have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, gross margin declines in certain businesses, reflecting the effect of items such as competitive pricing pressures, inventory write-downs and increases in pension and postretirement benefit expenses and funding requirements. Economic downturns may also result in restructuring actions and associated expenses and impairment of long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangibles. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Delays or reductions in our customers’ spending are expected to have an adverse effect on demand for our products and services, and consequently our results of operations, financial position and cash flow and those adverse affects could be material. Finally, economic downturns may affect our credit ratings, which, if downgraded, could impact our ability to borrow under our commercial paper program and borrowing costs could increase. Fluctuations in the costs of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials may adversely impact the Company. Purchases of paper, ink, energy and other raw materials represent a large portion of the Company’s costs. Increases in the costs of these inputs may increase the Company’s costs, and the Company may not be able to pass these costs on to customers through higher prices. In addition, the Company may not be able to resell waste paper and other by-products or the prices received for their sale may decline substantially. Increases in the cost of materials may adversely impact our customers’ demand for printing and related services. 9 Table of Contents The Company may be adversely affected by a decline in the availability of raw materials. The Company is dependent on the availability of paper, ink, and other raw materials to support its operations. Unforeseen developments in these markets could result in a decrease in the supply of paper, ink or other raw materials and could cause a decline in the Company’s revenues. The financial condition of our customers may deteriorate. Many of our customers participate in highly competitive markets, and their financial condition may deteriorate as a result. A decline in the financial condition of our customers would hinder the Company’s ability to collect amounts owed by customers. In addition, such a decline would result in lower demand for the Company’s products and services. A continued lack of liquidity in the capital markets or a sustained period of unfavorable economic conditions will increase our exposure to credit risks and result in increases in write-offs of doubtful accounts receivable and in our allowance for doubtful accounts. The Company may not be able to improve its operating efficiency rapidly enough to meet market conditions. Because the markets in which the Company competes are highly competitive, the Company must continue to improve its operating efficiency in order to maintain or improve its profitability. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to do so in the future. In addition, the need to reduce ongoing operating costs may result in significant up-front costs to reduce workforce, close or consolidate facilities, or upgrade equipment and technology. The Company may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased revenues anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, including the 2008 acquisition of Pro Line, will depend in part upon the Company’s ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and the Company may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company. In addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the Company’s businesses and the loss of key personnel from the Company or the acquired businesses. Further, employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may disrupt the businesses of the Company or the acquired businesses. The Company’s strategy is, in part, predicated on our ability to realize cost savings and to increase revenues through the acquisition of businesses that add to the breadth and depth of the Company’s products and services. Achieving these cost savings and revenue increases is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits of anticipated integration of sales forces, asset rationalization, systems integration, and more comprehensive product and service offerings. The Company may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including management. The Company’s success depends, in part, on our general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of the Company’s employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a serious negative effect on the Company. Various locations may encounter competition with other manufacturers for skilled labor. Many of these competitors may be able to offer significantly greater compensation and benefits or more attractive lifestyle choices than the Company offers. In addition, many members of the Company’s management have significant industry experience that is valuable to the Company’s competitors. The Company enters into non-solicitation and, as appropriate, non-competition agreements with its executive officers, prohibiting them contractually from soliciting the Company’s customers and employees and from leaving and joining a competitor within a specified 10 Table of Contents period. If one or more members of our senior management team leave and we cannot replace them with a suitable candidate quickly, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly, which could harm our business prospects and consolidated results of operations. Costs to provide health care and other benefits to the Company’s employees and retirees may increase. The Company provides health care and other benefits to both employees and retirees. In recent years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, the Company’s cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting the Company’s profitability. In addition, the funded status of the Company’s pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of certain market interest rates. Declines in the market value of the securities held by plans materially reduced the funded status of the plans in 2008 and could materially reduce the funded status of the plans in 2009 and future years. Such a reduction affects the level of pension expense and required contributions in future years. Current market conditions may lead to changes in the discount rate used to value the year-end benefit obligations of the plans, which could partially mitigate or worsen the effects of the lower asset returns. If the current economic crisis continues for an extended period of time, our costs and required cash contributions associated with pension plans may substantially increase in future periods. There are risks associated with operations outside the United States. The Company has significant operations outside the United States. Revenues from the Company’s operations outside the United States accounted for approximately 25% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including the impact of economic and political instability of those countries in which we operate. The Company is exposed to significant risks related to potential adverse changes in currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risks resulting from changes in the currency exchange rates of the currencies in the countries in which it does business. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the operating results of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into the Company’s consolidated financial statements. To the extent revenues and expenses are not in the applicable local currency, the Company may enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. We cannot be sure, however, that the Company’s efforts at hedging will be successful. There is always a possibility that attempts to hedge currency risks will lead to even greater losses than predicted. A decline in expected profitability of the Company or individual reporting units of the Company could result in the impairment of assets, including goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets. The Company holds material amounts of goodwill, other long-lived assets and deferred tax assets on its balance sheet. A decline in expected profitability, particularly a continued decline in the global economy, could call into question the recoverability of our related goodwill, other long-lived assets, or deferred tax assets and require us to write down or write off these assets or, in the case of deferred tax assets, recognize a valuation allowance through a charge to income. Such an occurrence could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Risks Related to Our Industry The highly competitive market for the Company’s products and industry consolidation may create adverse pricing pressures. The markets for the majority of the Company’s product categories are highly fragmented and the Company has a large number of competitors. We believe that excess capacity in the Company’s markets has caused downward pricing and that this trend may continue. In addition, consolidation in the markets in which the Company competes may increase competitive pricing pressures due to competitors lowering prices as a result of synergies achieved. 11 Table of Contents The substitution of electronic delivery for printed materials may adversely affect our businesses. Electronic delivery of documents and data, including the online distribution and hosting of media content, offer alternatives to traditional delivery of printed documents. Consumer acceptance of electronic delivery is uncertain, as is the extent to which consumers are replacing traditional reading of print materials with online, hosted media content, and we have no ability to predict the rates of acceptance of these alternatives. To the extent that consumers, our customers and regulators accept these alternatives, many of our products, such as books, directories, statement printing and forms, may be adversely affected. Changes in the rules and regulations to which the Company is subject may increase the Company’s costs. The Company is subject to numerous rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, product safety, environmental and health and welfare benefit regulations. These rules and regulations may be changed by local, state or federal governments in countries in which the Company operates. Changes in these regulations may result in a significant increase in the Company’s costs to comply. Compliance with changes in rules and regulations could require increases to the Company’s workforce, increased cost for compensation and benefits, or investments in new or upgraded equipment. Declines in the general economic conditions may adversely impact the Company’s business. In general, demand for products and services are highly correlated with general economic conditions. Declines in economic conditions in the U.S. or in other countries in which the Company operates may adversely impact the Company’s consolidated financial results. Because such declines in demand are difficult to predict, the Company or the industry may have increased excess capacity as a result. An increase in excess capacity may result in declines in prices for the Company’s products and services. The overall business climate may also be impacted by wars or acts of terrorism. Such acts may have sudden and unpredictable adverse impacts on demand for the Company’s products and services. Changes in the rules and regulations to which our customers are subject may impact demand for the Company’s products and services. Many of the Company’s customers are subject to rules and regulations requiring certain printed or electronic communications, governing the form of such communications, and protecting the privacy of consumers. Changes in these regulations may impact our customers’ business practices and could reduce demand for printed products and related services. Changes in such regulations could eliminate the need for certain types of printed communications altogether or such changes may impact the quantity or format of printed communications. Changes in postal rates and regulations may adversely impact demand for the Company’s products and services. Postal costs are a significant component of many of our customers’ cost structures and postal rate changes can influence the number of pieces and types of mailings that the Company’s customers mail. Any resulting decline in print volumes mailed would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Changes in the advertising, retail, and capital markets may impact the demand for printing and related services. Many of the end markets in which our customers compete are experiencing changes due to technological progress and changes in consumer preferences. The Company cannot predict the impact that these changes will have on demand for the Company’s products and services. Such changes may decrease demand, increase pricing pressures, require investment in updated equipment and technology, or cause other adverse impacts to the Company’s business. In addition, the Company must monitor changes in our customers’ markets and develop new solutions to meet customers’ needs. The development of such solutions may be costly, and there is no assurance that these solutions will be accepted by customers. 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 