ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below, and all of the other information in this Form 10-K and the Company’s other SEC filings. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. We may not generate profits in the future and we had net losses in recent years. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 we incurred net losses of $26.3 million and $10.3 million, respectively. Continuing net losses may limit our ability to service our debt and fund our operations and we may not generate net income in the future. Factors contributing to net losses in recent years included, but were not limited to, price competition and the implementation of price reductions to extend customer contracts; asset impairment charges; a write-off of deferred financing costs; delays in conversions to PET from other forms of packaging; a high proportion of conventional products in our product mix, customers shifting to self manufacturing of bottles; and operating difficulties in our European businesses. These and other factors may adversely affect our ability to generate profits in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow, we will not be able to service our debt and provide for ongoing operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operating activities to service our debt and fund our operations or if we are unable to refinance our debt, we may have to defer capital expenditures or sell assets to generate cash, which could weaken our competitive position. Net cash provided by operating activities for the years ended 2007 and 2006 was $10.3 million and $44.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had $395.0 million in principal amount of debt outstanding consisting of our secured notes and our senior subordinated notes. As of December 31, 2007, there were $0.4 million of borrowings under our credit facility, $7.0 million outstanding under letters of credit, $4.3 million of cash on our balance sheet, and we had $54.8 million available to borrow under our credit facility. The Company will need to generate enough cash to service its debt and to fund its operations. Although interest rates and the amount outstanding under our credit facility and the secured notes may vary, based on interest rates and debt levels as of December 31, 2007, servicing our outstanding indebtedness would require annual payments of $37.3 million of interest (excluding $2.2 million of annual amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discount). Our ability to generate cash depends to some extent on general economic, competitive, legislative and other factors beyond our control. Borrowings under our credit facility may alleviate our short-term cash needs, but any borrowings under such facility will further increase our debt. In addition, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt and we may be unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, it may be more difficult for us to refinance our credit facility or other debt because we have granted liens on substantially all of our assets to secure our credit facility and our secured notes. Our debt may negatively impact our liquidity, limit our ability to obtain additional financing and harm our competitive position. Our debt may have important negative consequences for us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting funds available for us because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest expense, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market and industry conditions; and • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns. 9 Table of Contents We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt limit or debt levels or the current debt levels of our subsidiaries, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. We currently plan to finance ordinary business operations through borrowings under our credit facility, which are subject to conditions and borrowing base limitations. We currently plan to finance ordinary business operations through borrowings under our credit facility. Our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility is subject to our compliance with various covenants as of the date of borrowing, including borrowing base limitations that are dependent upon the future level of our eligible accounts receivables and inventory in the United States and the United Kingdom. Even if we are in compliance with all such covenants, the total amount of the facility may be unavailable if the value of the collateral securing the facility falls below certain levels, or if the administrative agent determines that eligibility reserves should be applied to the amount otherwise available under the facility. Certain of the components of the borrowing base are subject to the discretion of the administrative agent. As of December 31, 2007, there were $0.4 million of borrowings under our credit facility, $7.0 million outstanding under letters of credit, $4.3 million of cash on our balance sheet, and we were able to borrow $54.8 million under our credit facility. In addition, the administrative agent has the customary ability to reduce, unilaterally, our borrowing availability at any time by, for example, establishing reserves or declaring certain collateral ineligible. The administrative agent has informed the Company that it currently plans to place a reserve against our borrowing base effective on or about April 1, 2008 relating to the interest rate swap between the Company and the administrative agent due to the impact of lower interest rates and its current volatility. We believe that due to the fact that the value of our borrowing base will be increasing over the next few months as we build inventory for the summer months, this reserve will not have a significant impact on our liquidity. The value of this reserve will change over time. Certain of our inventory is located on properties that we lease and if we are unable to obtain consents from the landlords, such inventory may not be eligible for inclusion in the borrowing base, thereby reducing our borrowing availability. If we are unable to fully access our credit facility, we may become illiquid and we may be unable to finance our ordinary business activities. Our interest expense may increase since indebtedness under the secured notes and our credit facility is subject to floating interest rates. The secured notes and our borrowings under our credit facility are subject to floating interest rates and the amount outstanding under the credit facility will change from time to time. Based on interest rates and debt levels at December 31, 2007, our annualized cash interest costs for fiscal 2008 would be approximately $37.3 million. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for operations and other purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had $220.4 million in borrowings under the secured notes and our credit facility. A 1% increase in market interest rates on our floating rate borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2007 after giving effect to the swap described below would result in an annual increase in our interest expense and a decrease in our income before taxes of approximately $1.2 million. In May 2005, we entered into an interest rate swap on $100.0 million notional amount of our secured notes. The interest rate swap involved the exchange of floating interest payments based on three month LIBOR rate for a fixed rate of 7.9%. Our flexibility in operating our business and our ability to repay our indebtedness may be limited as a result of certain covenant restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness. Our credit facility and the indentures governing the secured notes and our senior subordinated notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant restrictions on us. Compliance with these restrictive covenants will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Failure to comply with these covenants could give 10 Table of Contents rise to an event of default under our credit facility and the indentures governing the secured notes and our senior subordinated notes. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee obligations; • create liens; • engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations or the creation of subsidiaries; • change the nature of our business; • make equity investments or loans; • sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions and operating lease transactions; • sell or discount notes or receivables; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • pay dividends, make distributions or redeem any equity securities; • modify our organizational documents or certain debt documents; • change our accounting treatment and reporting practices; • engage in speculative transactions; • enter into agreements restricting our ability or the ability of a subsidiary to incur liens, or restricting the ability of a subsidiary to pay dividends to, make or repay loans to, transfer property to, or guarantee indebtedness of, us or any of our other subsidiaries; • prepay certain indebtedness; and • allow debt to be designated as senior debt. If we default on these or any of the other covenants in our credit facility and are unable to obtain an amendment or waiver, the lenders could cause all amounts outstanding under our credit facility, the secured notes and our senior subordinated notes to be due and payable immediately and the lenders under our credit facility or the trustee under the indenture governing the secured notes could proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay fully the borrowings under our different forms of indebtedness, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. A default or potential acceleration could impact our ability to attract and retain customers and could negatively impact trade credit availability and terms. Our credit facility is secured by our domestic and United Kingdom accounts receivable, inventory, investment property, instruments, chattel paper, documents, deposit accounts and other intangibles, as well as a pledge of all of the outstanding capital stock of our domestic and United Kingdom subsidiaries and 65% of the voting stock of our other foreign subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the book value of such assets was approximately $128.5 million and $111.7 million, respectively. Our net sales and profitability may decline if we lose Pepsi as a customer or if Pepsi reduces the number of containers that it purchases from us. Pepsi may terminate its supply agreements with us if we materially breach any of our obligations under the applicable agreement or if a third party acquires more than 20% (or 25% in the case of a specified third party) of our outstanding capital stock or United States-based PET assets. The loss of Pepsi as a customer would cause our net sales and profitability to decline significantly. Our cold fill supply agreement with Pepsi expires on 11 Table of Contents December 31, 2008. Our total sales to Pepsi accounted for approximately 38% and 33%, respectively, of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 In addition, notwithstanding Pepsi’s commitment to purchase containers from us in certain geographic regions, Pepsi may purchase containers from a third party for such regions under several circumstances, including our failure to meet our supply obligations and our failure to meet specified contractual quality standards. The Company has had and continues to have active discussions related to the renewal of its cold fill supply agreement with Pepsi (accounting for 35% of 2007 revenue). To date the discussions have covered several aspects of our supply relationship, including: terms and conditions, pricing, unit volumes and product mix. The Company believes that the discussions have progressed to the point where the Company expects to reach an agreement before the end of the second quarter of 2008. However, until an agreement is signed, there is no certainty of reaching an agreement or reaching an agreement on satisfactory economic terms for the Company. If an agreement is not reached, the loss of all Pepsi volume under this contract will have a material adverse effect on the Company. If the cold fill Pepsi contract is not renewed, the material adverse change would constitute a default under the Company’s Revolver Loan and the payment of this debt could be accelerated. An acceleration of the Revolver Loan would permit the acceleration of the secured notes and the subordinated notes. Should such acceleration occur, the Company would have to seek other forms of financing. There can be no assurance that such financing would be available or that it would be available to the Company on satisfactory economic terms. Although there has been no material change in the Company’s relationship with its customers or suppliers, there can be no assurance that as the December 31, 2008 contract expiration for Pepsi approaches there would not be a change. Customers and suppliers that are not under contract may seek to change the terms of their economic relationship with the Company. If such a change is material, it could cause a strain on the Company’s liquidity or eliminate its current liquidity and reduce its level of cash flow. Should such a change occur, the Company would have to seek other forms of financing and there can be no assurance that such financing would be available or that it would be available to the Company on satisfactory economic terms. Should the cold fill Pepsi contract not be renewed on satisfactory economic terms to the Company, the Company will need to review the carrying value of its long-lived assets and may have to record an impairment charge on those assets. Conventional PET containers account for over 74% of our sales and generally carry lower per unit variable profitability than custom units. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 74% and 76%, respectively, of our sales related to conventional PET containers which are primarily used for carbonated soft drinks and bottled water. These products typically generate lower variable profitability. Profitability is driven principally by volume and maintaining efficient manufacturing operations. The market for conventional products may decline. In recent years, the largest growth within conventional products has come from bottled water. Profitability from water bottle sales has declined as economic factors have forced some water bottlers into self-manufacturing of PET bottles and some smaller water bottlers out of business. We believe that the trend towards self-manufacturing of water bottles will increase. Growth in water bottles sales may also be impacted by environmental concerns. We believe that customers may also move towards self-manufacturing of certain carbonated soft drink packages where economics can be justified. In addition, the shift to healthier beverages is driving a decline for carbonated soft drinks. 12 Table of Contents Pricing and volumes in our markets are sensitive to production capacity utilization. Our business is sensitive to industry capacity utilization. The trend towards self-manufacturing of water bottles may result in increased industry capacity, which could increase price competition and affect our profitability. If the market for custom PET packaging does not grow as large or as quickly as we anticipate, our growth and profitability may be lower than we currently expect. To the extent that the custom PET market does not grow as large or as quickly as we anticipate, our growth and profitability may be lower than we currently expect. We believe that one of the keys to our future success will be our ability to sell more custom PET products. Partly because of the more complex technologies required for certain custom PET applications, profitability is generally higher for custom PET products than for conventional PET products. We believe a number of products will convert from glass, metal and other packaging to custom PET packaging. A slow rate of conversion would limit our growth opportunities. A significant portion of our sales is concentrated with a small number of customers. In 2007, the Company’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 71% of our sales. Pepsi alone accounted for 38% of our sales. The loss or reduction of our business with any of these significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our net sales, profitability, and cash flows. A decrease in cash flows may cause the carrying value of our assets to become unrecoverable and could cause a write-down of assets due to impairment. The loss of our intellectual property rights, for which we enjoy limited protection, would negatively impact our ability to compete in the PET industry. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we may lose the ability to generate royalties in the future by licensing our patented technologies and our competitors may use our technologies to compete with us. We have a number of patents covering various aspects of the design and construction of our products, including our Oxbar™ technology. Our United States and European Oxbar™ patents begin to expire in 2008. Our patents may not withstand challenge in litigation, and patents do not ensure that competitors will not develop competing products, design around our patents or infringe upon our patents. The costs of litigation to defend our patents could be substantial and may outweigh the benefits of enforcing our rights under our patents. We market our products internationally and the patent laws of foreign countries may offer less protection than the patent laws of the United States. Not all of our domestic patents have been registered in other countries. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of this information. In addition, we have from time to time received letters from third parties suggesting that we may be infringing on their intellectual property rights, and third parties may bring infringement suits against us. If the claims of these third parties are successful, we may be required to seek licenses from these third parties or refrain from using the claimed technology. In addition, other parties use oxygen barrier technologies, and to the extent we determine that any such technologies infringe upon our patents, we may have to bring infringement suits to enforce our patent rights. In any such infringement suit, a defendant would likely seek to invalidate the patents at issue. 13 Table of Contents We have licensed Oxbar™ to some of our competitors which may allow our licensed competitors to compete more effectively with us. We have licensed to some of our competitors certain applications of our Oxbar™ technology. This may offset some of the competitive advantage offered by Oxbar™ and allow our licensed competitors to compete more effectively with us. We may also license other technologies that currently exist or that we may develop in the future. Any such licensing activity may harm our competitive position. The competitive advantages of our Oxbar™ technology may also be weakened by the sublicense rights held by a third party. Oxbar™ technology is subject to a worldwide royalty-free cross-license with Rexam AB, which owns several patents relating to oxygen-scavenging technology. The cross-license agreement gives both parties the right to use and sublicense each other’s oxygen scavenging technology patents, but not each other’s know-how. The competitive advantages that we believe can be achieved through Oxbar™ may not be fully realized to the extent that Rexam uses Oxbar™ to compete with us or sublicenses Oxbar™ to any of our existing or potential competitors or customers, or other third parties. From time to time we have attempted to negotiate a new agreement with Rexam to modify our respective rights to Oxbar™, but to date no such agreement has been concluded and such an agreement may never be concluded. Our products and services may become obsolete. Significant technological changes could render our existing technology or our products and services obsolete. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our ability to compete may be weakened if our existing technologies are rendered obsolete. If we are unable to respond successfully to technological developments or do not respond in a cost-effective way, or if we do not develop new technologies, our net sales and profitability may decline. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing markets by continually improving our products and services and by developing new products and services to meet the needs of our customers. Our ability to develop these products and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies useful in our business and develop new offerings and technology that address the needs of our customers. Similarly, the equipment that we use may be rendered obsolete by new technologies. A significant investment in new equipment may reduce our profitability. Our business and operations may be disrupted if we have difficulty replacing key personnel. We believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of our senior management and key technical personnel. If one or more of these persons are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, and if we are unable to attract and retain other comparable personnel, our business and operations could be disrupted. Several members of our senior management have extensive industry experience, and it would be difficult to find new personnel with comparable experience. Because our business is highly specialized, we believe that it would also be difficult to replace our key technical personnel. In addition, we do not currently maintain key man insurance for any of our senior managers or technical personnel. As our customers change their product lines and marketing strategies, demand for our products may fluctuate. A reduction in demand for PET packaging may reduce our net sales and negatively impact our prospects for future growth. From time to time our customers change product lines, eliminate product lines and reduce the amount that they spend on marketing product lines. As a result, our customers’ demand for PET packaging may fluctuate or decrease permanently. 14 Table of Contents Consolidation of our customers may increase their negotiating leverage and reduce our net sales and profitability. The consolidation of our customers may reduce our net sales and profitability. If one of our larger customers acquires one of our smaller customers, or if two of our customers merge, the combined customer’s negotiating leverage with us may increase and our business with the combined customer may become less profitable. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired by a company that has a relationship with one of our competitors, we may lose that customer’s business. The consolidation of purchasing power through buyer cooperatives or similar organizations may also harm our profitability. We may lose business to other forms of packaging or to our competitors in the PET industry. Competition from producers of other forms of packaging and our competitors within the PET industry may cause our customers to purchase other types of packaging or to purchase PET containers from our competitors, which may reduce our net sales and profitability. PET containers compete in the packaging market with other plastic containers, glass bottles, metal cans, paperboard cartons and other materials. Changes in the relative cost and quality of other packaging materials may reduce the market for PET containers. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our current or potential competitors may offer products at a lower cost or products that are superior to ours. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in integrating new technologies. Many of our contracts (and typically our most significant contracts) provide that our customers may purchase from an alternative source if we cannot provide products that are of similar quality at an equivalent price. If we lower prices in response to such provisions, or if we lose a significant amount of business from one or more customers, our net sales and profitability may decline. In addition to competition with other independent suppliers of PET packaging, some of our potential customers produce their own PET containers. Coca-Cola, one of the largest end-users of conventional PET containers in the United States, self-manufactures its own PET preforms and blows its own bottles. Some of our customers have developed in-house preform production and bottle blowing capacity, and we believe that this trend is accelerating. This may reduce our sales and our profitability. In addition, if self-manufacturing results in merchant suppliers having significant excess capacity, price competition may increase. If we do not have adequate funds to meet our capital needs, our business may be impaired and our losses may increase. If we do not have adequate funds to make our capital expenditures or if the expected benefits of capital expenditures are not achieved, our business may be impaired and our losses may increase. We expect to have substantial capital needs in the future. If we do not have funds available to satisfy our capital expenditure requirements, we may not be able to pursue our strategy for profitable growth. We cannot be certain that our capital needs will not be larger than expected. We also cannot be certain that the expected benefits of any capital expenditures will be achieved. We require large quantities of resin to manufacture our products so that increases in the price of resin may negatively impact our financial results and may deter the growth of the PET market. We use large quantities of plastic resin in manufacturing our products and increases in the price of resin may increase our cost of products sold, reduce our profitability and reduce our prospects for growth. Resin is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of our products. Resin is subject to substantial price fluctuations. Resin is a petrochemical product and resin prices may fluctuate with prices in the worldwide oil and gas markets. Political or economic events in oil or gas producing countries, such as those in the Middle East, may impact the price of resin. We are subject to the risk of fluctuations in the price of resin. Although substantially all of our business is under contracts that permit us to pass changes in the price of resin through to our customers, market conditions may not permit us to fully pass through any future resin price increases or may force us to grant other 15 Table of Contents concessions to customers. In addition, the arrangements that we make to limit our exposure to fixed or other resin pricing mechanisms may not operate as expected, including under circumstances where our resin suppliers are unable or unwilling to perform. Resin price increases against which we are not protected may have a material adverse impact on our business. Significant increases in resin prices, coupled with an inability to promptly pass such increases on to customers, may increase our cost of products sold and reduce our profitability. A sustained increase in the price of resin may slow the rate of conversion of alternative packaging materials, such as glass and metal, to PET, or may make these alternative packaging materials more attractive than PET. A sustained increase in the price of resin may also result in an increased price to consumers, which may affect consumer preference for PET packaging. If these factors reduce the demand for PET packaging, it may significantly reduce our prospects for growth. Customers may supply us with an increasing amount of resin, which may reduce our ability to negotiate favorable resin purchase contracts. Pepsi currently supplies us with a portion of our resin requirements for manufacturing its containers. Pepsi has the right to supply us with up to all of its resin requirements, which may reduce our profitability. Other customers have recently sought similar rights to direct our resin purchasing. Because we are a large purchaser of resin, we enjoy significant leverage in negotiating resin purchase agreements. To the extent that Pepsi or other customers exercise their right to supply us with an increasing amount of resin, the amount of resin that we purchase will decline and we may lose some of our leverage in negotiating resin purchase agreements. If we have to pay higher prices for resin, our costs will increase and we may not be able to offer our customers pricing terms as favorable as those we offer now or as favorable as those offered by our competitors. In addition, the Company’s borrowing base would be reduced if the Company holds less resin in inventory, which would limit the Company’s ability to borrow the full amount available under the Company’s credit facility. Any failure to obtain resin on a timely basis or any significant interruptions in the supply of resin could prevent us from supplying our customers on a timely basis and disrupt our operations. If our suppliers are unable to meet our requirements for resin, it may prevent us from manufacturing our products. Our suppliers may not continue to provide resin to us at attractive prices, or at all, and we may not be able to obtain resin in the future from these or other suppliers on the scale and within the time frames we require. Any failure to obtain resin on a timely basis at an affordable cost, or any significant delays or interruptions of supply, could prevent us from supplying our customers on a timely basis. In both the US and Europe, our purchasing portfolio for resin often includes a component of imported resin from Asia or other foreign markets. Greater shipping distances, government actions, political unrest, tariffs, local market conditions in the exporting region, and other issues may affect supplier reliability and cause greater risk of supply disruption for such imported resin. We depend on a small number of suppliers for some of the manufacturing equipment that we would need to expand. Our business relies on specialized manufacturing equipment that is produced by a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers increases its prices significantly, goes out of business or is otherwise unable to meet our requirements for necessary equipment, we may be unable to expand our operations. This may significantly reduce our prospects for growth. We earn a significant portion of our revenue in warmer months, and cool summer weather may result in lower sales. Unseasonably cool weather during a summer could reduce our sales and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to the sale of beverage containers. Demand for beverages tends to peak during the summer months. In the past, significant changes in summer weather conditions have affected the demand for beverages, which in turn affects the demand for beverage containers manufactured by us. 16 Table of Contents The seasonal nature of our business impacts our cash flows. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, cash flow requirements are the greatest in the first several months of each fiscal year because of the increased working capital required to build inventory for the warmer months and because of lower levels of profitability associated with softer sales during the first few months of each fiscal year. A cool summer may have a significant impact on cash flow because of lower profitability and the impact on working capital. A small number of stockholders are in a position to influence most of our significant corporate actions because they hold a significant amount of our common stock. In their various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Eagle Rock Capital Management, L.L.C., Wells Fargo & Company, Crown Cork & Seal Company, Inc., David J. Greene and Company, LLC, Troob Capital Management, and/or their respective affiliates, have publicly reported the ownership of approximately two-thirds of our common stock in the aggregate. These entities, acting alone or in concert, may be able to influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, these entities are in a position to influence most of our significant corporate actions. We are subject to foreign currency risk and other instabilities from our international operations. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we derived approximately 22% and 19%, respectively of our revenue from sales in foreign currencies. In our financial statements, we translate local currency financial results into United States dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. Our most significant foreign currency exposures are to the British pound and the Euro. During times of a strengthening United States dollar, our reported international revenue and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer United States dollars. As a result of our international operations, we are also subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including changes in governmental policies and regulations, war, acts of terrorism and other sources of instability. We are also at risk for acts of terrorism in the United States. These risks may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Higher energy costs or frequent or sustained power interruptions may increase our operating costs and limit our ability to supply our customers. Electrical power is vital to our operations and we rely on a continuous power supply to conduct our business. If energy costs substantially increase in the future, we could experience a significant increase in operating costs. In addition, we have experienced power interruptions at our manufacturing facilities, particularly during severe weather conditions. Frequent or sustained power interruptions, particularly at our larger manufacturing facilities, may limit our ability to supply our customers and negatively impact our business. We are exposed to the risk of liabilities or claims related to environmental and health and safety standards. Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental and employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those regarding the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, treatment, emission and disposal of certain substances and remediation of environmental impacts to soil and groundwater. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental and worker health and safety matters. Currently, we are involved in a small number of compliance and remediation efforts primarily concerning wastewater discharge and possible soil and groundwater contamination, including investigations and certain other activities at our Netherlands facility. Based on information presently available, we do not believe that the cost of these efforts will be material. However, environmental and health and safety matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and actual costs may increase materially. 17 Table of Contents We face product liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail or if our customers and suppliers are affected by product liability risks or negative publicity. Our business is exposed to product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Although we maintain insurance for product liability claims, the amount and scope of our insurance may not be adequate to cover a product liability claim that is successfully asserted against us. Our product liability insurance does not cover product recall costs. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and negative publicity affecting our customers and suppliers. Because many of our customers are food, beverage and other consumer products companies, with their own product liability risks, our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim. We may also suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our products or our customers’ products that use our containers. Our operations and profitability could suffer if we experience labor relations problems or if we do not reach new union agreements on satisfactory terms. A prolonged work stoppage or strike could prevent us from operating our manufacturing facilities. The contract with our union employees in our Netherlands facility expires on September 30, 2009. The contract with our union employees in our Sherburn, England facility expires on December 31, 2008. While we believe that our employee relations are generally good, there can be no assurance that a new contract can be negotiated and if so, what impact the terms will have on the Company. We have a significant amount of goodwill and may be required to write down goodwill in certain circumstances, which would result in lower reported net income (or higher net losses) and an increase in our stockholder’s deficit. We have a significant amount of goodwill and a write-down of our goodwill would reduce our net worth and would reduce our net income or increase our net loss. At December 31, 2007 we had $148.8 million of goodwill. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we are required to evaluate goodwill to determine whether it is impaired under the guidelines of the standard. Accordingly, we test the value of our goodwill for impairment at least annually and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge. Certain circumstances may indicate the need for an immediate impairment review, such as if our book value was in excess of our market capitalization. We may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We must annually evaluate our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. We might not be able to complete the work necessary to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our independent registered public accounting firm might not complete their assessment of our internal controls in a timely manner. Finally, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm might not conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. The Company did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to lawsuits and claims that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to lawsuits and claims in the normal course of business and related to businesses operated by predecessor corporations. For example, we and certain of our present and former directors, along with Crown Holdings, Inc., as well as various underwriters, have been named as defendants in a consolidated putative securities class action lawsuit alleging that the registration statement and prospectus for our initial public offering of our common stock on November 14, 2002 contained material misrepresentations and/or omissions. We believe that this lawsuit is without merit. See “Our Business—Legal Proceedings” for a fuller description of this case. However, litigation can be costly and time-consuming and the outcomes of lawsuits cannot be predicted. A significant judgment in this or any other lawsuits could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. We have underfunded pension plans and an unfunded post-retirement medical/life insurance plan, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. We maintain funded pension plans in the U.S., the U.K. and Holland and an unfunded retiree medical/life insurance plan in the U.S. In 2007, we contributed approximately $5.2 million in the aggregate to the pension and retiree medical/life insurance plans, and we expect to contribute approximately $4.8 million in the aggregate to these plans for 2008. As of December 31, 2007, our U.S. pension plan was underfunded by approximately $3.8 million and our unfunded retiree medical and life insurance benefit obligation was approximately $6.1 million. The U.S. pension plan’s assets consist primarily of common stocks and fixed income securities. If the performance of these investments does not meet our assumptions, the underfunding of the U.S. pension plan may increase and we may have to contribute additional funds to the U.S. pension plan. In addition, the recently enacted Pension Protection Act of 2006 could require us to accelerate the timing or our contributions to the U.S. pension plan and also increase the premiums that we pay to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”). The actual impact of the Pension Protection Act on our U.S. pension plan funding requirements will depend upon the interest rates required for determining the plan’s liabilities and the investment performance of the plan’s assets. An increase in U.S. pension plan contributions and expenses could decrease our available cash to pay outstanding obligations and our net income. While the U.S. pension plan continues in effect, we will continue to incur additional pension obligations. Our U.S. pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the PBGC has the authority to terminate an underfunded plan under certain circumstances. In the event that our U.S. pension plan is terminated for any reason while the plan is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the under funding. In 2007, we contributed approximately $1.6 million in the aggregate to the U.K. and Holland pension plans, and we expect to contribute approximately $1.1 million in the aggregate to these plans for 2008. As of December 31, 2007, these plans were underfunded by approximately $1.9 million. If we lose the benefit of our agreements with Crown, the costs of the services we receive may increase. We were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Crown until Crown sold most of our equity in a November 2002 public offering. At the time of such offering, we entered into a number of transitional arrangements and other contractual agreements with Crown that were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and negotiated in the overall context of such offering. As a result, these agreements are not on arm’s length terms and are not representative of the terms that we might have reached with unaffiliated third parties or of the terms of future agreements that we may enter into with unaffiliated third parties. If Crown ceases to provide these services, we will have to engage a third party or supplement our own capabilities to provide these services. This may be costly and disruptive to our operations. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 