ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below, and all of the other information in this Form 10-K and the Company’s other SEC filings. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. Based on the current terms of our proposed Plan of Reorganization, we expect our outstanding common stock will be extinguished. If our proposed Plan of Reorganization or a similar plan is confirmed and implemented, our existing common stock will be cancelled and current shareholders will receive no distribution or other consideration in exchange for their shares. There can be no assurance that our proposed Plan of Reorganization will be approved and we will continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10–K have been prepared assuming we can continue as a going concern. Because of the Chapter 11 process and our recurring losses from operations, downward sales trends, and the potential lack of liquidity the Company’s current Plan of Reorganization may not be approved. If the Company’s current Plan of Reorganization is not approved, the Company would need to develop alternative reorganization plans. If these alternative plans are not approved, there can be no assurance that the Company would be able to continue as a going concern. Our continuation as a going concern is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to convert our debtor-in-possession financing to exit financing, to obtain approval for our Plan of Reorganization, and to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet our obligations. Our credit facility will expire in the third quarter of 2009 unless it is converted into an exit facility. Our credit facility is currently in the form of a Senior Secured Super-Priority Debtor in Possession and Exit Credit Agreement (the “DIP Credit Facility”) that we entered into in connection with our Chapter 11 filing. This DIP Credit Facility will terminate on the earlier of September 30, 2009 and the effective date of the Company’s Plan of Reorganization. Subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent, principally the approval by the Bankruptcy Court of the Company’s Plan of Reorganization that includes the conversion of the Company’s Senior Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2012 (the “Subordinated Notes”) to common stock, the DIP Credit Facility is convertible into a $75 million exit facility upon the Company’s emergence from Chapter 11. There can be no assurance that the Company’s Plan of Reorganization will be effective prior to September 30, 2009, or that the Company will be able to convert the DIP Credit Facility into an exit facility. If the Company is unable to convert the DIP Credit Facility into an exit facility, it will need to obtain alternative financing to continue as a going concern. There can be no assurance that the Company would be able to locate alternative sources of financing. Our stock is no longer listed on a national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. Effective January 8, 2009, the Nasdaq Stock Market delisted our common stock from trading. Our stock is now traded over the counter. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to list our common stock on a national securities exchange in the future, or that the stock will continue being traded over the counter. The trading of our common stock over the counter negatively impacts the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, an order has been entered by the Bankruptcy Court that restricts trading in our common stock in order to preserve our tax net operating loss carryforwards. 10 Table of Contents Operating in bankruptcy imposes significant risks on our operations. We cannot predict when we will confirm a Plan of Reorganization and successfully emerge from bankruptcy. A confirmation hearing with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has been set for April 28, 2009 to consider the approval of the Company’s Plan of Reorganization. There can be no assurance that the Company’s Plan of Reorganization will be confirmed on this date. We are not certain when we will emerge from bankruptcy. The timing of our emergence from bankruptcy and the terms of our emergence may affect our relationships with our creditors, customers, suppliers and employees and have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to continue operating in bankruptcy and to emerge from bankruptcy will depend upon the following factors, among others: • our ability to obtain creditor and court approval for, and then to consummate a Plan of Reorganization to emerge from bankruptcy; • our ability to comply with and operate under the terms of the DIP Credit Facility and any cash management orders entered by the Bankruptcy Court from time to time; • our ability to maintain adequate debtor-in-possession financing and to generate cash from operations; • our ability to satisfy the conditions for converting our DIP Credit Facility to an exit facility; • our ability to timely respond to events outside of the ordinary course of our business, which may require approval of the Bankruptcy Court; • our ability to retain key employees; and • our ability to maintain good customer and supplier relationships in light of developments in our bankruptcy cases and the terms of our emergence. As a result of our Chapter 11 cases, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance. Our capital structure will likely be significantly changed under any Plan of Reorganization. Under fresh start accounting rules that may apply to us upon the effective date of any Plan of Reorganization, our assets and liabilities would be adjusted to fair values and our accumulated deficit would be restated to zero. Accordingly, if fresh start accounting rules apply, our financial condition and results of operations following our emergence from Chapter 11 would not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases and the development of any Plan of Reorganization, it is also possible that additional restructuring and similar charges may be identified and recorded in future periods. Such charges could be material to our consolidated financial position and results of operations in any given period. Our emergence from Chapter 11 may potentially reduce or eliminate the Company’s net operating loss carryforward tax benefits. The Company has net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income taxes aggregating approximately $106.0 million at December 31, 2008. If we are successful in emerging from Chapter 11, it is likely that the net operating loss carryforwards will be eliminated. We are party to contracts containing change in control provisions. The Company is party to various contracts that contain provisions, including termination rights and/or acceleration provisions, that purport to be triggered upon a filing for bankruptcy or if the Company undergoes a change in control (the definition of which varies across these contracts). As part of the Chapter 11 process, the Company will seek to assume certain contracts. The Bankruptcy Code provides that contracts cannot be terminated or modified at any time after the commencement of the bankruptcy case solely because of a 11 Table of Contents contractual provision that purports to be triggered by the commencement of the case or by the insolvency or financial condition of the company at any time before the closing of the case. In addition, we will be seeking Court orders declaring that certain change of control provisions in our contracts are not triggered under the facts and circumstances here. The Company does not expect any material consequences to result from these provisions. However, there can be no assurance that such provisions, or other provisions not considered by the Company, will not have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are subject to claims in the Chapter 11 Cases that must be paid in full, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. We are subject to certain claims that may not be discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases. We are also subject to the payment in full of all unsecured claims filed in the Chapter 11 cases (other than claims arising under our Subordinated Notes and certain claims relating to the purchase of our securities) to the extent such claims are allowed by a nonappealable order of the Bankruptcy Court. The payment in full of such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. We may not generate profits in the future and we had net losses in recent years. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 we incurred net losses of $57.8 million and $26.3 million, respectively. Continuing net losses may limit our ability to service our debt and fund our operations and we may not generate net income in the future. Factors contributing to net losses in recent years included, but were not limited to, price competition and the implementation of price reductions to extend customer contracts; asset impairment charges; a write-off of deferred financing costs; delays in conversions to PET from other forms of packaging; a high proportion of conventional products in our product mix; customers shifting to self manufacturing of bottles; and operating difficulties in our European businesses. These and other factors may adversely affect our ability to generate profits in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow, we will not be able to service our debt and provide for ongoing operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operating activities to service our debt and fund our operations or if we are unable to refinance our debt, we may have to defer capital expenditures or sell assets to generate cash, which could weaken our competitive position. Net cash provided by operating activities for the years ended 2008 and 2007 was $14.1 million and $10.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had $395.0 million in principal amount of debt outstanding consisting of our Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes due February 15, 2012 (the “Secured Notes”) and our Subordinated Notes. As of December 31, 2008, there were $20.0 million of borrowings under our DIP Credit Facility, $10.1 million outstanding under letters of credit, $14.3 million of cash on our balance sheet, and we were able to borrow $1.0 million under our DIP Credit Facility. The Company will need to generate enough cash to service its debt and to fund its operations. Although interest rates and the amount outstanding under our DIP Credit Facility and the Secured Notes may vary, based on interest rates and debt levels as of December 31, 2008, servicing our outstanding indebtedness would require annual payments of $34.0 million of interest. If the Company’s Plan of Reorganization is successful, the Company will convert its Subordinated Notes to common stock. The impact of this conversion will reduce cash interest expense by $19.3 million per year. Our ability to generate cash depends to some extent on general economic, competitive, legislative and other factors beyond our control. Borrowings under our DIP Credit Facility may alleviate our short-term cash needs, but any borrowings under such facility will further increase our debt. In addition, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt and we may be unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, it may be more difficult for us to refinance our DIP Credit Facility or other debt because we have granted liens on substantially all of our assets to secure our DIP Credit Facility and our Secured Notes. 12 Table of Contents Our debt may negatively impact our liquidity, limit our ability to obtain additional financing and harm our competitive position. Our debt may have important negative consequences for us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • limiting funds available for us because we must dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest expense, thereby reducing the funds available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and, • limit the Company’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, which would intensify the related risks. We currently plan to finance ordinary business operations through borrowings under our DIP Credit Facility, which are subject to conditions and borrowing base limitations. We currently plan to finance ordinary business operations through borrowings under our DIP Credit Facility. If we are unable to fully access our DIP Credit Facility, we may become illiquid and we may be unable to finance our ordinary business activities. Our ability to borrow funds under our DIP Credit Facility is subject to our compliance with various covenants as of the date of borrowing. Even if we are in compliance with all such covenants, the total amount of the facility may be unavailable because we can only borrow a percentage of the eligible “borrowing base.” The borrowing base is comprised of eligible accounts receivable and inventory of our United States and United Kingdom operations. As the value of such accounts receivable and inventory declines, our ability to borrow is reduced. Factors that could cause such value to decline include: • a decline in the price of resin; • an increase in the value of the United States dollar; and • a write-off of accounts receivable. The borrowing base is subject to further limitations, including that: • certain of the components of the borrowing base are subject to the discretion of the administrative agent; • if inventory is located on properties that we lease and if we are unable to obtain consents from the landlords, such inventory may not be eligible for inclusion in the borrowing base; • the inventory and accounts receivable of our United Kingdom subsidiary would be disqualified from the borrowing base in the event of certain insolvency proceedings of that subsidiary or any action taken against such subsidiary to enforce its guarantee given in respect of our Secured Notes; and • the administrative agent has the customary ability to reduce, unilaterally, our borrowing availability at any time by, for example, establishing reserves or declaring certain collateral ineligible. The administrative agent informed the Company that it placed a reserve against our borrowing base relating to the interest rate swap between the Company and the administrative agent due to the impact of lower interest rates and its current volatility as of December 31, 2008. The value of the reserve is subject to change based on further changes in interest rates, and is also expected to decline as we approach the expiration date of the swap in February 2012. 13 Table of Contents Our interest expense may increase since indebtedness under the Secured Notes and our DIP Credit Facility is subject to floating interest rates. The Secured Notes and our borrowings under our DIP Credit Facility are subject to floating interest rates and the amount outstanding under the DIP Credit Facility will change from time to time. Based on interest rates and debt levels at December 31, 2008, our annualized cash interest costs for fiscal 2009 would be approximately $34.0 million. If the Company’s Plan of Reorganization is successful, cash interest expense in 2009 would be reduced by $19.3 million. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for operations and other purposes. As of December 31, 2008, we had $240.0 million in borrowings under the Secured Notes and our credit facility. A 1.0% increase in market interest rates on our floating rate borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2008 after giving effect to the swap described below would result in an annual increase in our interest expense and a decrease in our income before income taxes of approximately $1.2 million. In May 2005, we entered into an interest rate swap on $100.0 million notional amount of our Secured Notes. The interest rate swap involved the exchange of floating interest payments based on three month LIBOR rate for a fixed rate of 7.9%. This swap agreement expires in February of 2012. Our flexibility in operating our business and our ability to repay our indebtedness may be limited as a result of certain covenant restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness. Our DIP Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Secured Notes and our Subordinated Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant restrictions on us. Compliance with these restrictive covenants will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Failure to comply with these covenants could give rise to an event of default under our DIP Credit Facility and the indentures governing the Secured Notes and our Subordinated Notes. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and guarantee obligations; • create liens; • engage in mergers, consolidations, liquidations or the creation of subsidiaries; • change the nature of our business; • make equity investments or loans; • sell, lease or otherwise dispose of assets; • engage in sale and leaseback transactions and operating lease transactions; • sell or discount notes or receivables; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • pay dividends, make distributions or redeem any equity securities; • modify our organizational documents or certain debt documents; • change our accounting treatment and reporting practices; • engage in speculative transactions; • enter into agreements restricting our ability or the ability of a subsidiary to incur liens, or restricting the ability of a subsidiary to pay dividends to, make or repay loans to, transfer property to, or guarantee indebtedness of, us or any of our other subsidiaries; • prepay certain indebtedness; and • allow debt to be designated as senior debt. 14 Table of Contents The Company must comply with various covenants to maintain it’s financing. If we default on any of the financial or operating covenants in any of our debt agreements and are unable to obtain an amendment or waiver, the lenders could cause all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be due and payable immediately and the lenders under our DIP Credit Facility or the trustee under the indenture governing the Secured Notes could proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to repay fully the borrowings under our different forms of indebtedness, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default. In addition, any event of default or declaration of acceleration under one debt instrument could also result in an event of default under one or more of our other debt instruments. A default or potential acceleration could impact our ability to attract and retain customers and could negatively impact trade credit availability and terms. Our DIP Credit Facility is secured by our domestic and United Kingdom accounts receivable, inventory, investment property, instruments, chattel paper, documents, deposit accounts and other intangibles, as well as a pledge of all of the outstanding capital stock of our domestic and United Kingdom subsidiaries and 65% of the voting stock of our other foreign subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the book value of such assets was approximately $90.1 million and $128.5 million, respectively. Customers not under contract may shift their business due to the Company’s Chapter 11 filing. Approximately 4% of the Company’s revenue is not under signed supply contracts. The risk that customers may shift this business to other suppliers is heightened because of the Chapter 11 process. In addition, excluding Pepsi, approximately 25% of the Company’s contracted business comes up for renewal each year based upon the volume-weighted average term of the Company’s contracts. Some customers have reacted to the Company’s Chapter 11 filing by not signing new contracts while continuing to do business with the Company. The inability to renew contracts or to secure new business may materially impact the Company’s financial results. Our net sales and profitability may decline if we lose Pepsi as a customer or if Pepsi reduces the number of containers that it purchases from us. Pepsi may terminate its supply agreements with us if we materially breach any of our obligations under the applicable agreement. The loss of Pepsi as a customer would cause our net sales and profitability to decline significantly. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company began a new four year cold fill supply agreement with Pepsi. Under the terms of the new agreement, the Company expects that there will be an approximately 30% reduction in cold fill volume as compared to 2008 with a mix shift towards fewer bottles and more preforms, but on improved economic terms. The new agreement provides the Company the exclusive right to supply, with certain exceptions, 100% of the volume required at specific Pepsi filling locations. The term of the new agreement can be extended for one additional year at Pepsi’s sole option. The Company’s expectations regarding the new agreement are subject to several risks and assumptions, including without limitation, whether expected future volumes are realized; whether the future product mix is consistent with the Company’s expectations; and whether the Company achieves the restructuring savings announced with the signing of this new agreement. Our sales to Pepsi accounted for approximately 40% and 38%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, with our cold fill agreement representing 36% and the separate hot fill agreement representing 4% of consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, notwithstanding Pepsi’s commitment to purchase containers from us in certain geographic regions, Pepsi may purchase containers from a third party for such regions under several circumstances, including our failure to meet our supply obligations and our failure to meet specified contractual quality standards. Conventional PET containers account for over 69% of our sales and generally carry lower per unit profitability than custom units. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 69% and 74%, respectively, of our sales related to conventional PET containers which are primarily used for carbonated soft drinks and bottled water. These products typically generate lower profitability. Profitability is driven principally by price, volume and maintaining efficient manufacturing operations. 15 Table of Contents The market for conventional products may decline. Profitability from water bottle sales has declined as economic factors have forced some water bottlers into self-manufacturing of PET bottles and some smaller water bottlers out of business. Water bottle sales are expected to constitute approximately 8% of the Company’s 2009 sales revenue. Customers have also begun to move towards self-manufacturing of certain carbonated soft drink packages where economics can be justified. In addition, the single serve carbonated soft drink market, whose primary distribution channel is gasoline stations and convenience stores, has declined with the economy and its recovery to historical levels cannot be assured. Furthermore, the carbonated soft drink market may continue to decline as consumers shift their preferences to alternative beverages. Pricing and volumes in our markets are sensitive to production capacity utilization. Our business is sensitive to industry capacity utilization. The self-manufacturing of water bottles and carbonated soft drink bottles may result in increased industry capacity, which could increase price competition and affect our profitability. If merchant suppliers do not invest in capacity, it may be easier to justify investments in self-manufacturing. A weakening economy may impact our sales. As the economy has worsened, consumers have purchased fewer PET products. Declining volumes may lead to price competition in our industry. In addition, our customers are responding to the economy with new products, cost saving projects and increased complexity, which may present risks to our customer relationships and profitability. Any of these factors may have a negative impact on our business. The recent global credit and financial crisis could have adverse effects on the Company. The current global credit and financial crisis could have significant adverse effects on the Company’s operations, including as a result of any of the following: • downturns in the business or financial condition of any of the Company’s key customers or suppliers; • the creditworthiness of customers, suppliers and counterparties could deteriorate resulting in a financial loss or a disruption in our supply of raw materials; • the deterioration of any of the lending parties under the Company’s DIP Credit Facility which could result in such parties failure to satisfy their obligations under their arrangements with the Company; • the current lack of available funding sources, which could have a negative impact upon the liquidity of the Company as well as that of its customers and suppliers. If the Company’s custom PET packaging business does not grow, our growth and profitability may be lower than we currently expect. To the extent that we do not grow custom PET volume as large or as quickly as anticipated, our profitability may be lower than we currently expect. We believe that one of the keys to our future success will be our ability to sell more custom PET products. Partly because of the more complex technologies required for certain custom PET applications, profitability is generally higher for custom PET products than for conventional PET products. We believe a number of products will convert from glass, metal and other packaging to custom PET packaging. The lead time for major new business projects ranges from two to four years. A slow rate of conversion would limit our growth opportunities. The market for our products is dominated by a few large purchasers, and a significant portion of our sales is concentrated with some of them. The market for PET packaging is dominated by a handful of large purchasers. Opportunities to obtain significant new awards from such purchasers are limited, as are the opportunities to replace any lost business 16 Table of Contents from such purchasers. In 2008, the Company’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 76% of our sales. Pepsi alone accounted for 40% of our sales. The loss or reduction of our business with any of these significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our net sales, profitability, and cash flows. A decrease in cash flows may cause the carrying value of our assets to become unrecoverable and could cause a write-down of assets due to impairment. The loss of our intellectual property rights, for which we enjoy limited protection, would negatively impact our ability to compete in the PET industry. If we are unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our technologies, we may lose the ability to generate royalties in the future by licensing our technologies and our competitors may use our technologies to compete with us. We have a number of patents covering various aspects of the design and construction of our products. The key Oxbar™ patents have expired. Our patents may not withstand challenge in litigation, and patents do not ensure that competitors will not develop competing products, design around our patents or infringe upon our patents. The costs of litigation to defend our patents could be substantial and may outweigh the benefits of enforcing our rights under our patents. We market our products internationally and the patent laws of foreign countries may offer less protection than the patent laws of the United States. Not all of our domestic patents have been registered in other countries. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of this information. In addition, we have from time to time received letters from third parties suggesting that we may be infringing on their intellectual property rights, and third parties may bring infringement suits against us. If the claims of these third parties are successful, we may be required to seek licenses from these third parties or refrain from using the claimed technology. Our products and services may become obsolete. Significant technological changes could render our existing technology or our products and services obsolete. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our ability to compete may be weakened if our existing technologies are rendered obsolete. If we are unable to respond successfully to technological developments or do not respond in a cost-effective way, or if we do not develop new technologies, our net sales and profitability may decline. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing markets by continually improving our products and services and by developing new products and services to meet the needs of our customers. Our ability to develop these products and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies useful in our business and develop new offerings and technology that address the needs of our customers. Similarly, the equipment that we use may be rendered obsolete by new technologies. A significant investment in new equipment may reduce our profitability. Our business and operations may be disrupted if we have difficulty replacing key personnel. We believe that our success will depend on the continued employment of our senior management and key technical personnel. If one or more of these persons are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, and if we are unable to attract and retain other comparable personnel, our business and operations could be disrupted. Several members of our senior management have extensive industry experience, and it would be difficult to find new personnel with comparable experience. Because our business is highly specialized, we believe that it would also be difficult to replace our key technical personnel. Our Chapter 11 filing may motivate personnel to leave the Company for other employment. In addition, we do not currently maintain key man insurance for any of our senior managers or technical personnel. 17 Table of Contents As our customers change their product lines and marketing strategies, demand for our products may fluctuate. A reduction in demand for PET packaging may reduce our net sales and negatively impact our prospects for future growth. From time to time our customers change product lines, eliminate product lines and reduce the amount that they spend on marketing product lines. As a result, our customers’ demand for PET packaging may fluctuate and decrease. Consolidation of our customers may increase their negotiating leverage and reduce our net sales and profitability. The consolidation of our customers may reduce our net sales and profitability. If one of our larger customers acquires one of our smaller customers, or if two of our customers merge, the combined customer’s negotiating leverage with us may increase and our business with the combined customer may become less profitable. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired by a company that has a relationship with one of our competitors, we may lose that customer’s business. The consolidation of purchasing power through buyer cooperatives or similar organizations may also harm our profitability. We may lose business to other forms of packaging or to our competitors in the PET industry. Competition from producers of other forms of packaging and our competitors within the PET industry may cause our customers to purchase other types of packaging or to purchase PET containers from our competitors, which may reduce our net sales and profitability. PET containers compete in the packaging market with other plastic containers, glass bottles, metal cans, paperboard cartons and other materials. Changes in the relative cost and quality of other packaging materials may reduce the market for PET containers. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our current or potential competitors may offer products at a lower cost or products that are superior to ours. In addition, our competitors may be more effective and efficient in integrating new technologies. Our competitors may also enjoy an advantage over us to the extent that customers shift business away from us out of concern for our Chapter 11 filing. Many of our contracts (and typically our most significant contracts) provide that our customers may purchase from an alternative source if we cannot provide products that are of similar quality at an equivalent price. If we lower prices in response to such provisions, or if we lose a significant amount of business from one or more customers, our net sales and profitability may decline. In addition to competition with other independent suppliers of PET packaging, some of our potential customers produce their own PET containers. Coca-Cola, one of the largest end-users of conventional PET containers in the United States uses captive manufacturing companies to self-manufacture its own PET preforms and bottles. Some of our customers have developed in-house preform production and bottle blowing capacity, and we believe that this trend may continue. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Overview.” This may reduce our sales and our profitability. In addition, if self-manufacturing results in merchant suppliers having significant excess capacity, price competition may increase. If we do not have adequate funds to meet our capital needs, our business may be impaired and our losses may increase. If we do not have adequate funds to make our capital expenditures or if the expected benefits of capital expenditures are not achieved, our business may be impaired and our losses may increase. We expect to have substantial capital needs in the future. If we do not have funds available to satisfy our capital expenditure 18 Table of Contents requirements, we may not be able to pursue our strategy for profitable growth. We cannot be certain that our capital needs will not be larger than expected. We also cannot be certain that the expected benefits of any capital expenditures will be achieved. We are dependent on certain resin suppliers. The Company is dependent on certain resin suppliers. Specific resins are often required for custom applications. Constar’s oxygen barrier materials are only qualified with one vendor. One resin specification needed for MonOxbar may be discontinued at the end of 2009. There are no readily available substitutes for certain resin specifications. Testing a substitute resin requires customer cooperation, may take several months, and may not result in the qualification of such resin. If the Company cannot obtain the resins that it requires on reasonable commercial terms, the Company’s business may be materially adversely affected. Any failure to obtain resin on a timely basis at an affordable cost, or any significant delays or interruptions of supply, could prevent us from supplying our customers on a timely basis. We require large quantities of resin to manufacture our products so that increases in the price of resin may negatively impact our financial results and may deter the growth of the PET market. We use large quantities of plastic resin in manufacturing our products and increases in the price of resin may increase our cost of products sold, reduce our profitability and reduce our prospects for growth. Resin is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of our products. Resin is subject to substantial price fluctuations. Resin is a petrochemical product and resin prices may fluctuate with prices in the worldwide oil and gas markets. Political or economic events in oil or gas producing countries, such as those in the Middle East, may impact the price of resin. We are subject to the risk of fluctuations in the price of resin. Although substantially all of our sales are made pursuant to mechanisms that permit us to pass changes in the price of resin through to our customers, market conditions may not permit us to fully pass through any future resin price increases or may force us to grant other concessions to customers. In addition, the arrangements that we make to limit our exposure to fixed or other resin pricing mechanisms may not operate as expected, including under circumstances where our resin suppliers are unable or unwilling to perform. Resin price increases against which we are not protected may have a material adverse impact on our business. Significant increases in resin prices, coupled with an inability to promptly pass such increases on to customers, may increase our cost of products sold and reduce our profitability. A sustained increase in the price of resin may slow the rate of conversion of alternative packaging materials, such as glass and metal, to PET, or may make these alternative packaging materials more attractive than PET. A sustained increase in the price of resin may also result in an increased price to consumers, which may affect consumer preference for PET packaging. If these factors reduce the demand for PET packaging, it may significantly reduce our prospects for growth. Customers may supply us with an increasing amount of resin, which may reduce our ability to negotiate favorable resin purchase contracts. Pepsi currently supplies us with a portion of our resin requirements for manufacturing its containers. Pepsi has the right to supply us with up to all of its resin requirements, which may reduce our profitability. Other customers have sought similar rights to direct our resin purchasing. Because we are a large purchaser of resin, we enjoy significant leverage in negotiating resin purchase agreements. To the extent that Pepsi or other customers exercise their right to supply us with an increasing amount of resin, the amount of resin that we purchase will decline and we may lose some of our leverage in negotiating resin purchase agreements. If we have to pay higher prices for resin, our costs will increase and we may not be able to offer our customers pricing terms as favorable as those we offer now or as favorable as those offered by our competitors. In addition, the Company’s borrowing base would be reduced if the Company holds less resin in inventory, which would limit the Company’s ability to borrow the full amount available under the Company’s credit facility. 19 Table of Contents We earn a significant portion of our revenue in warmer months, and cool summer weather may result in lower sales. Unseasonably cool weather during a summer could reduce our sales and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to the sale of beverage containers. Demand for beverages tends to peak during the summer months. In the past, significant changes in summer weather conditions have affected the demand for beverages, which in turn affects the demand for beverage containers manufactured by us. The seasonal nature of our business impacts our cash flows. As a result of the seasonal nature of our business, cash flow requirements are the greatest in the first several months of each fiscal year because of the increased working capital required to build inventory for the warmer months and because of lower levels of profitability associated with softer sales during the first few months of each fiscal year. A cool summer may have a significant impact on cash flow because of lower profitability and the impact on working capital. A small number of stockholders are in a position to influence most of our significant corporate actions because they hold a significant amount of our common stock. In their various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Eagle Rock Capital Management, L.L.C., Crown Cork & Seal Company, Inc., Hammerstone NV, Inc., and/or their respective affiliates, have publicly reported the ownership of approximately 31% of our common stock in the aggregate. These entities, acting alone or in concert, may be able to influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, these entities are in a position to influence most of our significant corporate actions. If the Company’s proposed Plan of Reorganization is confirmed then the holders of the Subordinated Notes will become the Company’s new stockholders, which may similarly result in a concentration of ownership in the hands of a limited number of stockholders. We are subject to foreign currency risk and other instabilities from our international operations. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we derived approximately 20% and 22%, respectively of our revenue from sales in foreign currencies. In our financial statements, we translate local currency financial results into United States dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. Our most significant foreign currency exposures are to the British pound and the Euro. During times of a strengthening United States dollar, our reported international revenue and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer United States dollars. As a result of our international operations, we are also subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including changes in governmental policies and regulations, war, acts of terrorism and other sources of instability. We are also at risk for acts of terrorism in the United States. These risks may negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Higher energy costs or frequent or sustained power interruptions may increase our operating costs and limit our ability to supply our customers. Electrical power is vital to our operations and we rely on a continuous power supply to conduct our business. If energy costs substantially increase in the future, we could experience a significant increase in operating costs, although approximately 60% of the Company’s United States volume and the majority of the Company’s European operations volume is subject to some form of energy cost pass through. In addition, we have experienced power interruptions at our manufacturing facilities, particularly during severe weather conditions. Frequent or sustained power interruptions, particularly at our larger manufacturing facilities, may limit our ability to supply our customers and negatively impact our business. 20 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk of liabilities or claims related to environmental and health and safety standards. Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental and employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those regarding the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, treatment, emission and disposal of certain substances and remediation of environmental impacts to soil and groundwater. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental and worker health and safety matters. Currently, we are involved in a small number of compliance and remediation efforts primarily concerning wastewater discharge and possible soil and groundwater contamination, including investigations and certain other activities at our Netherlands facility. Based on information presently available, we do not believe that the cost of these efforts will be material. However, environmental and health and safety matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and actual costs may increase materially. We face product liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail or if our customers and suppliers are affected by product liability risks or negative publicity. Our business is exposed to product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. Although we maintain insurance for product liability claims, the amount and scope of our insurance may not be adequate to cover a product liability claim that is successfully asserted against us. Our product liability insurance does not cover product recall costs. In addition, product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and, in the future, may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and negative publicity affecting our customers and suppliers. Because many of our customers are food, beverage and other consumer products companies, with their own product liability risks, our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim, or if they halt production or recall products voluntarily or involuntarily due to safety concerns. We may also suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our products or our customers’ products that use our containers. Our operations and profitability could suffer if we experience labor relations problems or if we do not reach new union agreements on satisfactory terms. A prolonged work stoppage or strike could prevent us from operating our manufacturing facilities. The contract with our union employees in our Netherlands facility expires on September 30, 2009. The contract with our union employees in our Sherburn, England facility expires on December 31, 2009. While we believe that our employee relations are generally good, there can be no assurance that a new contract can be negotiated and if so, what impact the terms will have on the Company. We have a significant amount of goodwill and may be required to write down goodwill in certain circumstances, which would result in lower reported net income (or higher net losses) and an increase in our stockholder’s deficit. We have a significant amount of goodwill and a write-down of our goodwill would reduce our net worth and would reduce our net income or increase our net loss. At December 31, 2008 we had $148.8 million of goodwill. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” we are required to evaluate goodwill to determine whether it is impaired under the guidelines of the standard. Accordingly, we test the value of our goodwill for impairment at least annually and, under certain circumstances, we may be required to recognize an impairment charge. Certain circumstances may indicate the need for an immediate impairment review, such as if our book value was in excess of our market capitalization. 21 Table of Contents We may not be able to report accurately our financial results or prevent fraud if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud could harm our business. We annually evaluate our internal control procedures under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to remedy or maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition. We and our auditors might not complete the reviews and assessments of our internal controls in a timely manner. Finally, our management and our auditors might not conclude that our internal controls are effective. We are subject to lawsuits and claims that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to lawsuits and claims in the normal course of business and related to businesses operated by predecessor corporations. See “Our Business—Legal Proceedings” for a fuller description of certain cases to which we are currently party. Litigation can be costly and time-consuming and the outcomes of lawsuits cannot be predicted. A significant judgment against us could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, judgments in excess of $4.0 million, to the extent not covered by insurance or stayed within 30 days of entry, constitute an event of default under our DIP Credit Facility. We have underfunded pension plans and an unfunded post-retirement medical/life insurance plan, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. We maintain funded pension plans in the U.S., the U.K. and Holland and an unfunded retiree medical/life insurance plan in the U.S. In 2008, we contributed approximately $4.2 million in the aggregate to the pension and retiree medical/life insurance plans, and we expect to contribute approximately $3.9 million in the aggregate to these plans for 2009. Due to the stock market performance in 2008, the Company’s U.S. pension plan was underfunded by approximately $30.4 million as of December 31, 2008 as compared to only $3.8 million as of December 31, 2007. The difference between pension plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of the Company’s pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Among other factors, significant volatility in the equity markets and in the value of illiquid alternative investments, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can substantially increase the Company’s future pension plan funding requirements. A significant increase in the Company’s funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company’s result of operations and profitability. In addition, the Company’s unfunded retiree medical and life insurance benefit obligation was approximately $5.3 million at December 31, 2008 as compared to $6.1 million as of December 31, 2007. The U.S. pension plan’s assets consist primarily of common stocks and fixed income securities. If the performance of these investments does not meet our assumptions, the underfunding of the U.S. pension plan may increase and we may have to contribute additional funds to the U.S. pension plan. In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 could require us to accelerate the timing of our contributions to the U.S. pension plan and also increase the premiums that we pay to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”). The actual impact of the Pension Protection Act on our U.S. pension plan funding requirements will depend upon the interest rates required for determining the plan’s liabilities and the investment performance of the plan’s assets. An increase in U.S. pension plan contributions and expenses could decrease our available cash to pay outstanding obligations and our net income. While the U.S. pension plan continues in effect, we will continue to incur additional pension obligations. Our U.S. pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the PBGC has the authority to terminate an underfunded plan under certain circumstances. In the event that our U.S. pension plan is terminated for any reason while the plan is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the under funding. 22 Table of Contents In 2008, we contributed approximately $1.0 million in the aggregate to the U.K. and Holland pension plans, and we expect to contribute approximately $1.0 million in the aggregate to these plans for 2009. As of December 31, 2008, these plans were underfunded by approximately $3.2 million. If we lose the benefit of our agreements with Crown, the costs of the services we receive may increase. We were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Crown until Crown sold most of our equity in a November 2002 public offering. At the time of such offering, we entered into a number of transitional arrangements and other contractual agreements with Crown that were made in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship and negotiated in the overall context of such offering. As a result, these agreements are not on arm’s length terms and are not representative of the terms that we might have reached with unaffiliated third parties or of the terms of future agreements that we may enter into with unaffiliated third parties. If Crown ceases to provide these services, we will have to engage a third party or supplement our own capabilities to provide these services. This may be costly and disruptive to our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 