ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below, and all of the other information in this Form 10-K and the Company’s other SEC filings. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also become important factors that may harm our business. We do not have sufficient funds to repay our Secured Notes that mature on February 15, 2012. Our $220.0 million of Secured Notes mature on February 15, 2012. We do not have sufficient funds, nor do we anticipate generating sufficient funds, to repay these notes and may not be able to refinance these notes prior to their maturity. Failure to refinance the Secured Notes within 90 days of their maturity is an event of default under our credit facility. In addition, if we fail to refinance the Secured Notes prior to the issuance of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, our auditors may issue a going concern opinion on our consolidated financial statements. In connection with the adoption of fresh-start accounting, for purposes of the Company’s financial statements the Secured Notes were adjusted to fair value based upon their quoted market price; however, the total amount due at maturity remains $220.0 million. We may not generate profits in the future and we had net losses in recent years. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 we incurred net losses excluding the impact of reorganization items of $27.2 million and $48.6 million, respectively, and we may not generate net income in the future. Continuing net losses may limit our ability to service our debt and fund our operations. Factors contributing to net losses in recent years included, but were not limited to, price competition and the implementation of price reductions to extend customer contracts; asset write-downs and impairment charges; delays in conversions to PET from other forms of packaging; a high proportion of conventional products in our product mix; customers shifting to self manufacturing of bottles; loss of customers due to contract expirations and competition; and operating difficulties in our European businesses. These and other factors may adversely affect our ability to generate profits in the future. Our indebtedness may reduce our operating flexibility and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. Our debt may have important negative consequences for us, such as: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for capital expenditures, working capital, and other general corporate purposes, particularly because substantially all of our assets are currently subject to liens; • increasing our vulnerability to economic downturns and changing market and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to compete with companies that are not as highly leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; • impacting the Company’s ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; and • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash to fund business needs. Our credit facility includes borrowing base limitations and other restrictions under which we may not be able to borrow the full amount of the facility. We currently plan to finance ordinary business operations through borrowings under our credit facility. If we are unable to fully access our credit facility, we may become illiquid and we may be unable to finance our ordinary business activities. Our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility is subject to our compliance with various covenants as of the date of borrowing. Even if we are in compliance with all such covenants, the total amount of the facility may be unavailable because we can only borrow a percentage of the eligible “borrowing base.” The borrowing base is comprised of eligible accounts receivable and inventory of our United States and United Kingdom operations. As the value of such accounts receivable and inventory declines, our ability to borrow is reduced. Factors that could cause such value to decline include, among other things: • management of working capital; • a decline in the price of resin or other declines in the prices of our products; • an increase in the value of the United States dollar relative to foreign currencies; and • the administrative agent is entitled to conduct field audits and inventory appraisals that may result in the application of a lower valuation. 8 Table of Contents The borrowing base is subject to further limitations, including that: • if inventory is located on properties that we lease and if we are unable to obtain consents from the landlords such inventory may not be eligible for inclusion in the borrowing base; and • the administrative agent has the ability to reduce our borrowing availability at any time by, for example, establishing reserves or declaring certain collateral ineligible. We must comply with financial and other covenants in our credit facility and other debt agreements. Our credit facility contains a financial covenant that require us to maintain $40.0 million of consolidated EBITDA (calculated on a trailing twelve month basis as of the last day of the then immediately preceding fiscal quarter) if our borrowing availability during any fiscal quarter falls below $15.0 million for any period of five consecutive business days during such fiscal quarter. Based upon its current projections, the Company expects to be in compliance with its debt covenants during 2010. The Company believes that the trailing twelve month Consolidated EBITDA will fall below $40.0 million at the end of the second quarter of 2010, but that the Company will remain in compliance with this covenant because available credit will not fall below $15.0 million for five consecutive business days. The Company’s projected availability and Consolidated EBITDA may be impacted by unit volume changes, resin price changes, movements in foreign currency, working capital changes, changes in product mix, factors impacting the value of the borrowing base, and other factors. In response to these factors, the Company would plan to delay or eliminate certain capital expenditures, reduce its inventory, institute cost reduction initiatives, seek additional funding related to its unsecured assets or seek a waiver of the covenant. There can be no assurance that such actions would be successful. In addition, our credit facility limits our capital expenditures to $25.0 million per year with a carryover permitted into the immediately following year of 75% of any unused portion. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our Secured Notes also contain covenants customary for such financings that, among other things, restrict our ability to sell assets, incur debt, incur liens and engage in certain transactions. These restrictions may limit our operating flexibility or our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. These covenants may have a material adverse impact on our operations. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants may constitute an event of default. Our credit facility and indenture also contain other events of default customary for such financings. If an event of default was to occur and we are unable to obtain an amendment or waiver, the lenders could declare outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable, discontinue further lending to us, apply any of our cash to repay outstanding loans, or foreclose on assets. We cannot provide assurance that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance borrowings upon an event of default. In addition, the credit facility and indenture contain provisions under which a default or acceleration of one of such documents may result in a cross acceleration of the other. Our key technologies are not covered by patents. The key patents on our Oxbar technology have expired. We have filed patent applications for our DiamondClear, X-4 and other new technologies related to our custom business. If these patents are not issued, our ability to compete in the custom business may be materially adversely affected. We currently maintain patents covering various aspects of the design and construction of our products, but our patents may not withstand challenge in litigation, and patents do not ensure that competitors will not develop competing products, design around our patents or infringe upon our patents. We market our products internationally and the patent laws of foreign countries may offer less protection than the patent laws of the United States. Not all of our domestic patents have been registered in other countries. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of this information. In addition, we have from time to time received letters from third parties suggesting that we may be infringing on their intellectual property rights, and third parties may bring infringement suits against us. If the claims of these third parties are successful, we may be required to seek licenses from these third parties or refrain from using the claimed technology. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of our sales is concentrated with a few large customers. In 2009, our sales to Pepsi and Cott Corporation accounted for approximately 32% and 11%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. The Company’s ten largest customers accounted for approximately 77% and 76% of our consolidated net sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our supply contract with Pepsi expires on December 31, 2012. The loss or reduction of our business with any of our significant customers could have a material adverse impact on our net sales, profitability, and cash flows. A decrease in cash flows may cause the carrying value of our assets to become unrecoverable and could trigger a write-down of assets due to impairment. In addition, the market for PET packaging is dominated by a handful of large customers. Opportunities to obtain significant new awards from such customers are limited, as are the opportunities to replace any lost business from such customers. Conventional PET containers account for a significant portion of our consolidated net sales. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 67% and 69%, respectively, of our sales related to conventional PET containers which are used for carbonated soft drinks and bottled water. On average, the variable profit margin of the conventional category is lower than the custom category. The demand for our conventional products is declining due to the trend of bottlers manufacturing their own bottles in-house. In addition, the single serve carbonated soft drink market, whose primary distribution channel is gasoline stations and convenience stores, has declined with the economy and its recovery to historical levels cannot be assured. Furthermore, the carbonated soft drink market may continue to decline as consumers shift their preferences to alternative beverages. Our customers are engaging in self-manufacturing. Self-manufacturing by customers may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s sales volumes and financial results. The Company believes that the majority of single serve water bottles are now being self-manufactured. Carbonated soft drink containers are also being self-manufactured, and the Company expects this transition to continue over time at locations where merchant suppliers’ transportation costs are high, and where large volume, low complexity and available space to install blow-molding equipment exists. While customers may continue to purchase water and CSD preforms from merchant suppliers to support their in-house blow-molding operations, preform sales are typically less profitable than bottle sales. In addition, hot-fill custom containers could shift to self-manufacturing if a customer were to change the product formulation from hot-fill to cold-fill, or if the customer adopted an aseptic filling process. Consolidation of our customers may reduce the Company’s volumes and profitability. PepsiCo’s acquisition of Pepsi Bottling Group and Pepsi Americas provides PepsiCo with the opportunity to consolidate filling operations and potentially increase its self-manufacturing of bottles. This may reduce the Company’s volume of business with PepsiCo. Generally, the consolidation of our customers may reduce our net sales and profitability. If one of our larger customers acquires one of our smaller customers, or if two of our customers merge, the combined customer’s negotiating leverage with us may increase and our business with the combined customer may become less profitable. In addition, if one of our customers is acquired by a company that has a relationship with one of our competitors, we may lose that customer’s business. The consolidation of purchasing power through buyer cooperatives or similar organizations may also harm our profitability. Contracts with customers generally do not require them to purchase any minimum amounts of products from us, and customers may not purchase amounts that meet our expectations. Our contracts, including those with Pepsi, our largest customer, are generally requirements-based, granting us all or a percentage of the customer’s actual requirements for a particular period of time, instead of a specific commitment of unit volume. In addition, certain contracts permit customers to terminate contracts if the customer receives an offer from another manufacturer that we choose not to match. Increases in resin prices relative to alternative packaging materials, or other price increases, may cause customers to decrease their purchases from us. Additionally, if customers discontinue products or convert products from one type to another, we may lose a source of revenues and profits. As a result, despite the existence of supply contracts with our customers, we face the risk that in the future customers will not continue to purchase amounts that meet our expectations. 10 Table of Contents Pricing and volumes in our markets are sensitive to production capacity utilization. Our business is sensitive to industry capacity utilization. Self-manufacturing of water bottles and carbonated soft drink bottles may result in increased industry capacity, which could increase price competition and affect our profitability. If the Company’s custom PET packaging business does not grow, our growth and profitability may be lower than we currently expect. To the extent that we do not grow custom PET volume as much or as quickly as anticipated, our profitability may be lower than we currently expect. We believe that one of the keys to our future success will be our ability to sell more custom PET products, in particular, those products incorporating the Company’s oxygen scavenging material. Partly because of the more complex technologies required for certain custom PET applications, profitability is generally higher for custom PET products than for conventional PET products. We believe a number of products will convert from glass, metal and other packaging to custom PET packaging. The lead time for major new business projects ranges from two to four years. A slower rate of conversion would limit our growth opportunities. During 2009, custom beverage sales were reduced due to factors including the negative impact of prevailing economic conditions on the convenience store and gas station distribution channels where custom PET single serve beverages are sold. In addition, general economic conditions may impact our customers’ willingness to convert to PET from other forms of packaging. These trends may continue in the future. Our products and services may become obsolete. Significant technological changes could render our existing technology or our products and services obsolete. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our ability to compete may be weakened if our existing technologies are rendered obsolete. If we are unable to respond successfully to technological developments or do not respond in a cost-effective way, or if we do not develop new technologies, our net sales and profitability may decline. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing markets by continually improving our products and services and by developing new products and services to meet the needs of our customers. Our ability to develop these products and services will depend, in part, on our ability to license leading technologies useful in our business and develop new offerings and technology that address the needs of our customers. Similarly, the equipment that we use may be rendered obsolete by new technologies. A significant investment in new equipment may reduce our profitability. We are dependent on a limited number of resin and chemical suppliers Specific resins are often required for custom applications. Our MonOxbar™, DiamondClear 100™ and DiamondClear 300™ oxygen barrier materials are only qualified with one resin vendor but with multiple resins that it produces. Testing is in process to identify other commercially available alternate resins for all barrier materials. The Company anticipates that additional resins will be qualified shortly but there can be no assurance that such qualifications will take place. In addition, DiamondClear 300™ requires special raw materials that are currently only available from limited sources in China, India, and Germany. These raw materials also require long lead times to obtain. Raw materials are processed into DiamondClear by a third party. In the event that the Company was unable to obtain DiamondClear raw materials, or in the event of any interruption of supply from the Company’s current sole processor, the Company may be unable to sell products incorporating the DiamondClear technology. The only qualified resin needed for MonOxbar™ will be discontinued by the end of 2010. An alternate resin has been identified and is being pursued, however testing a substitute resin may require customer cooperation, may take several months, and may not result in the qualification of such resin. If the Company cannot obtain the resins that it requires on reasonable commercial terms, the Company’s business may be materially adversely affected. Any failure to obtain resin on a timely basis at an affordable cost, or any significant delays or interruptions of supply, could prevent the Company from supplying its customers on a timely basis. Increases in the price of resin may negatively impact our financial results and may deter the growth of the PET market. PET resin is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of our products. We use large quantities of PET resin in manufacturing our products. Increases in the price of resin may increase the cost of our products, reduce our profitability and reduce our prospects for growth. Resin is subject to substantial price fluctuations. Resin is a petrochemical product and resin prices may fluctuate with prices in the worldwide oil and gas markets. Political or economic events in oil or gas producing countries, such as those in the Middle East, may impact the price of resin. 11 Table of Contents Although substantially all of our sales are made pursuant to mechanisms that permit us to pass changes in the price of resin through to our customers, market conditions may not permit us to fully pass through any future resin price increases or may force us to grant other concessions to customers. In addition, the arrangements that we make to limit our exposure to fixed or other resin pricing mechanisms may not operate as expected, including under circumstances where our resin suppliers are unable or unwilling to perform. Resin price increases against which we are not protected may have a material adverse impact on our business. Significant increases in resin prices, coupled with an inability to promptly pass such increases on to customers, may increase our cost of products sold and reduce our profitability. A sustained increase in the price of resin may slow the rate of conversion of alternative packaging materials, such as glass and metal, to PET, or may make these alternative packaging materials more attractive than PET. A sustained increase in the price of resin may also result in an increased price to consumers, which may affect consumer preference for PET packaging. If these factors reduce the demand for PET packaging, it may significantly reduce our prospects for growth. Customers may supply us with an increasing amount of resin, which may reduce our ability to negotiate favorable resin purchase contracts. Because we are a large purchaser of resin, we enjoy significant leverage in negotiating resin purchase agreements. To the extent that our customers choose to supply us with an increasing amount of resin, the amount of resin that we purchase will decline and we may lose some of our leverage in negotiating resin purchase agreements. If we have to pay higher prices for resin, our costs will increase and we may not be able to offer our customers pricing terms as favorable as those we offer now or as favorable as those offered by our competitors. We earn a significant portion of our revenue in warmer months, and cool weather may result in lower sales and cash flows. Unseasonably cool weather could reduce our sales and profitability and cash flows. A significant portion of our revenue is attributable to the sale of beverage containers. Demand for beverages tends to peak during the summer months. In the past, significant changes in summer weather conditions have affected the demand for beverages, which in turn affects the demand for beverage containers manufactured by us. Cash flow requirements are the greatest in the first several months of each fiscal year because of the increased working capital required to build inventory for the warmer months and because of lower levels of profitability associated with softer sales during the first few months of each fiscal year. Lower demand due to unseasonably cool weather may have a significant impact on cash flow because of lower profitability and the impact on working capital. A small number of stockholders are in a position to influence most of our significant corporate actions because they hold a significant amount of our common stock. In their various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, FMR L.L.C., Solus Alternative Capital Management LP, JPMorgan Chase & Co., Trafelet Capital Management L.P., and/or their respective affiliates, have publicly reported the ownership of approximately 59% of our common stock in the aggregate. These entities, acting alone or in concert, may be able to influence the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, these entities are in a position to influence most of our significant corporate actions. Our interest expense may increase since indebtedness under the Secured Notes and our Credit Facility is subject to floating interest rates. The Secured Notes and our borrowings under our credit facility are subject to floating interest rates and the amount outstanding under the credit facility will change from time to time. Changes in economic conditions could result in higher interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and reducing our funds available for operations and other purposes. A 1.0% increase in market interest rates on our un-hedged floating rate borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2009 would result in an annual increase in our interest expense and a decrease in our income before income taxes of approximately $1.3 million. We are subject to foreign currency risk and other instabilities from our international operations. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we derived approximately 20% of our revenue from sales in foreign currencies. In our financial statements, we translate local currency financial results into United States dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. Our most significant foreign currency exposures are to the British pound and the Euro. During times of a strengthening United States dollar, our reported international revenue and earnings will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer United States dollars. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to the risk of liabilities or claims related to environmental and health and safety standards. Our facilities and operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign environmental and employee health and safety laws and regulations, including those regarding the use, storage, handling, generation, transportation, treatment, emission and disposal of certain substances and remediation of environmental impacts to soil and groundwater. The nature of our operations exposes us to the risk of liabilities or claims with respect to environmental and worker health and safety matters. Currently, we are involved in a small number of compliance and remediation efforts primarily concerning wastewater discharge and possible soil and groundwater contamination, including investigations and certain other activities at our Netherlands facility. Based on information presently available, we do not believe that the cost of these efforts will be material. However, environmental and health and safety matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and actual costs may increase materially. Our operations and profitability could suffer if we experience labor relations problems or if we do not reach new union agreements on satisfactory terms. A prolonged work stoppage or strike could prevent us from operating our manufacturing facilities. The contract with our union employees in our Netherlands facility expires on October 31, 2010. The contract with our hourly union employees in our Sherburn, England facility expires on December 31, 2010. The workforce is the U.S. is non-union. While we believe that our employee relations are generally good, there can be no assurance that new contracts can be negotiated and if so, what impact the terms will have on the Company. We face product liability risks and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail or if our customers and suppliers are affected by product liability risks or negative publicity. Our business is exposed to product liability risk and the risk of negative publicity if our products fail. In addition, we are exposed to the product liability risk and negative publicity affecting our customers and suppliers. Because many of our customers are food, beverage and other consumer products companies, with their own product liability risks, our sales may decline if any of our customers are sued on a product liability claim, or if they halt production or recall products voluntarily or involuntarily due to safety concerns. We may also suffer a decline in sales from the negative publicity associated with such a lawsuit or with adverse public perceptions in general regarding our products or our customers’ products that use our containers. As a result of our Chapter 11 reorganization, our historical financial information may not be indicative of our future financial performance. Under fresh-start accounting our assets and liabilities were adjusted to their fair values and our accumulated deficit was adjusted to zero. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations following our emergence from Chapter 11 may not be comparable to the financial condition or results of operations reflected in our historical financial statements. We have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets that we may be required to write down in certain circumstances, which would result in lower reported net income (or higher net losses) and a reduction to stockholders’ equity. At December 31, 2009 we had $118.7 million of goodwill and $31.4 million of intangible assets. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we are required to evaluate our goodwill and trade name at least annually to determine whether the assets are impaired. The Company has selected October 1 as its annual testing date. Our technology and leasehold interest intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever a triggering event occurs that indicates the carrying value may not be recoverable. We may also test our goodwill and trade name for impairment on an interim basis if a triggering event occurs that would indicate that the fair value of our company or our trade name has declined. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recognize an additional impairment charge. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to lawsuits and claims that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to lawsuits and claims in the normal course of business and related to businesses operated by predecessor corporations. See “Our Business—Legal Proceedings” for a fuller description of certain cases to which we are currently party. Litigation can be costly and time-consuming and the outcomes of lawsuits cannot be predicted. A significant judgment against us could materially and adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. In addition, certain judgments against us would constitute an event of default under our debt agreements. We have underfunded pension plans and an unfunded post-retirement medical/life insurance plan, which could affect our cash flows and financial condition. We maintain funded pension plans in the U.S., the U.K. and Holland and an unfunded retiree medical/life insurance plan in the U.S. In 2009, we contributed approximately $3.8 million in the aggregate to the pension and retiree medical/life insurance plans, and we expect to contribute approximately $4.2 million in the aggregate to these plans for 2010. The Company’s pension plans were underfunded by approximately $27.7 million and $33.6 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The difference between pension plan obligations and assets, or the funded status of the plans, significantly affects the net periodic benefit costs of the Company’s pension plans and the ongoing funding requirements of those plans. Among other factors, volatility in the equity and debt markets, changes in interest rates, investment returns and the market value of plan assets can substantially increase our future pension plan funding requirements. A significant increase in our funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. In addition, our unfunded retiree medical and life insurance benefit obligation was approximately $4.4 million and $5.3 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The U.S. pension plan’s assets consist primarily of common stocks and fixed income securities. If the performance of these investments does not meet our assumptions, the underfunding of the U.S. pension plan may increase and we may have to contribute additional funds to the U.S. pension plan. In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 could require us to accelerate the timing of our contributions to the U.S. pension plan and also increase the premiums that we pay to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”). The actual impact of the Pension Protection Act on our U.S. pension plan funding requirements will depend upon the interest rates required for determining the plan’s liabilities and the investment performance of the plan’s assets. An increase in U.S. pension plan contributions and expenses could decrease our available cash to pay outstanding obligations and our net income. While the U.S. pension plan continues in effect, we will continue to incur additional pension obligations. Our U.S. pension plan is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or ERISA. Under ERISA, the PBGC has the authority to terminate an underfunded plan under certain circumstances. In the event that our U.S. pension plan is terminated for any reason while the plan is underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the under funding. Our stock is not listed on a national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common stock or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common stock. Our stock is traded over the counter. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to list our common stock on a national securities exchange in the future, or that our stock will continue being traded over the counter. The trading of our common stock over the counter negatively impacts the trading price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 