Risk Factors” at the end of this section, and the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” contained in Item 7. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS Our three reportable segments are: (1) Optical Memory Cards, (2) Drives, Systems and Services (which we formerly called the “Optical Memory Card Drives” segment), including read/write drives, maintenance, systems and enabling services, and (3) Specialty Cards and Printers. The segments were determined based on the information used by the chief operating decision maker. The optical memory cards and drives, systems and services reportable segments are not strategic business units which offer unrelated products and services; rather, these reportable segments utilize compatible technology and are marketed jointly. Specialty Cards and Printers is a strategic business unit offering at times unrelated products and at times related products with the other reportable segments. See “Segment Reporting” in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional industry segment information. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS LaserCard Corporation is a leading provider of secure ID solutions to governments and commercial clients around the world, and also manufactures a wide range of advanced, secure identity documents. These ID documents include the LaserCard® optical memory card and hybrid cards combining optical memory with contact, contactless and RFID chip technology. The Company’s cards and systems are widely used in countries around the world, including the United States, Canada, Italy, India and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for demanding applications including border security, government service provision and facility access. LaserCard’s wholly-owned German subsidiary, Challenge Card Design Plastikkarten GmbH ("CCD"), with offices in Rastede and Ratingen, Germany, manufactures and offers a wide range of high quality specialty cards, plus card personalization and ID management solutions under the CCD and Cards & More brands. 6 LaserCard®; A Secure Counterfeit-resistant Credential Our LaserCard® optical memory card (OMC) is a secure, counterfeit-resistant credential which is currently used by national governments primarily in secure identification applications. Digital data is recorded in an irreversible process so that ID information on a legitimate card cannot be fraudulently altered for criminal purposes. Each implementation for secure ID is customized to the issuer’s own specifications. Key characteristics of the card’s memory and the issuing and inspection hardware are matched. To date, LaserCard’s users have concluded that the hurdle for would-be card counterfeiters is so high that such persons instead would seek some other vulnerability points in the issuance process. Another security benefit of optical memory is its ability to be permanently marked with visible, high-resolution micro images and security patterns in the optical media itself at resolutions up to 12,000 dots per inch. These features, which cannot be accurately simulated by counterfeiters, are used by inspectors and forensic specialists for both unaided and aided visual card authentication. We also can create a “laser-etched,” eye visible image in the media, irreversibly marking the digital recording media with the visible identity of the card holder — a unique security feature among all machine readable card technologies. This method of permanently “etching” a facial image in the media is used to verify the authenticity of other printed or laser engraved facial images on the card’s surfaces enabling a method to determine tampering of these images. We have recently released Personalized Embedded HologramHD™ that features a larger, high-definition photographic quality image, so the feature itself can be used for ID verification, while still serving the verification function. The feature is essentially impossible to copy or reproduce and cannot be altered thus providing a very high level of counterfeit resistance. Personalized Embedded HologramHD is a component of LaserCard’s unique document security package, known as Optical IDLock™, a highly sophisticated layering and blending of overt, covert and forensic security and identity management features. These features collectively make each card uniquely counterfeit resistant, tamper evident and permanently locked to the identity of the cardholder. No other technology can deliver this level of security tied to the individual cardholder’s identity. Our Optical/Smart™ card offering combines the security and capacity of optical memory with the active transactional capability of an IC chip. The chip can be any ISO 7816 series standard module and is embedded into the optical card base stock using traditional milling and embedding techniques. Typical applications for the Optical/Smart™ card include the provision of e-government services via the chip while the optical memory acts as a visual and secure card authentication feature, backs up the chip in case of failure or tampering, and stores an audit trail of events in the card's life for security and forensic purposes. In addition, the optical memory can store a suite of original biometric images (for example, face, fingerprints and irises) to provide a means of ID verification across other government and private sector applications. Given that optical memory can be used securely off-line, it is not necessary to have access to Public Key Infrastructure that is necessary for smart cards, an extremely costly and complex system, at every transaction point thus enhancing the over-all cost-effectiveness of optical memory. We believe that the newly-introduced LaserPass™ is the most secure and flexible electronic ID solution available today. Combining the convenience and facilitation capabilities of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) or contactless chip technology with the security and certain, automatic authentication of optical memory, the system can support a complete range of inspection and ID verification scenarios which can be set depending on perceived threat levels. For example, the combination of the technologies provides the following advantages: ● RFID provides convenient access through a control point after cardholder ID verification (one-to-one) with data stored on the optical memory ● RFID can be used in high traffic environments as a “read ahead” data base pointer allowing data to be retrieved and queued awaiting inspection 7 ● Optical memory provides instant automatic card authentication, very rapid one-to-one biometric ID verification, and display of digital facial image and other ID data directly from the optical memory ● Optical memory provides an attending inspector with unparalleled surety in visually verifying card, cardholder and displayed data ● All RFID data can be backed up on the optical media ● Optical memory can be used offline when the network is down or slow ● Optical memory can be used when the chip may have been compromised or there is suspicion about the cardholder’s match to the database image or tampering with the card’s printed personal data ● Optical memory acts as forensic evidence in criminal prosecutions for tampering or counterfeiting of either the chip’s data or card personalized data LaserCard Government Applications The predominant present application is secure identity in government programs, covering both immigration and border entry along with citizenship. The counterfeit-resistant cards are typically replaced every five or ten years. The following are examples of these government applications: ● The U.S. Permanent Resident Card (“Green Card”), issued by the Department of Homeland Security, evidences that a non-US citizen is approved to reside and be employed in the United States. ● The Canadian “Maple Leaf” Permanent Resident Card, issued by the Government of Canada, confirms Canadian permanent resident status. ● The electronic citizen ID card of Italy, identifies the holder as a citizen and confers upon the holder the rights and privileges to which a citizen is entitled. The card can also be used as an accepted document for crossing borders at over 32 different countries. ● The Italian electronic non-citizen resident permit card for non-EU citizens confirms the cardholder’s approval to reside in Italy. ● In a program for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the LaserCard® is being issued as a national identification card. ● The Laser Visa Border Crossing Card, issued by the United States Department of State, permits Mexican citizens to make an unlimited number of visits to the United States close to the U.S. border for up to 30 days. ● A motor vehicle registration program in the States of Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat, India, in which the Optical/Smart™ LaserCard® is used for storing the payment of road tax, vehicle registration, insurance, violations, vehicle fitness, and owner/operator information. ● A developing program in Angola for national ID cards identifies the holder as a citizen. Data Storage Capacity The gross data storage capacity of the standard LaserCard® is 4.1 megabytes on a 35mm optical stripe, 2.56 megabytes on a 24mm stripe and 1.5 megabytes on a 16mm stripe. The LaserCard® itself is the size of a conventional credit card. A portion of the LaserCard®’s total data capacity is used for an error detection and correction, or EDAC, algorithm. EDAC is routinely used in various data storage and transfer methods to compensate for data errors resulting from transmission errors, surface scratches above the recording material, or contamination such as dust or fingerprints. EDAC is automatically added to data written onto the LaserCard®, to achieve written data error rates of less than one in a trillion. The resulting data storage capacities are 2.86 megabytes of “user” capacity for the standard 4.1 megabyte LaserCard®, 1.78 megabytes of "user" capacity for the standard 2.56 megabyte optical stripe, and 1.1 megabytes of “user” capacity for the 1.5 megabyte optical stripe. 8 Durability Since 1993 the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency has used LaserCard® optical memory cards as a paperless freight manifest when shipping goods all over the world, often in the most hazardous environments. Environmental testing done by the U.S. Army confirmed the optical memory card’s high durability, which also has been validated by the worldwide Army deployments where the card has demonstrated its ability to withstand some of the harshest conditions and still work reliably in this mission-critical application. International Standards for Optical Memory Cards Standardization of optical memory cards allows interchange of the digital information encoded on the cards and facilitates compatibility among optical memory card systems. We participate in optical card standards activities in the United States and internationally. Shown below is the current status of optical memory card standards under ISO/IEC (the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Committee). The LaserCard® optical memory card system, complies with all of the standards listed. ● ISO/IEC 11693 describes the general characteristics of optical memory cards. This international standard was first published in 1994. ● ISO/IEC 11694-1 describes the physical characteristics of the card, such as height, width, thickness, etc. This international standard was first published in 1994. ● ISO/IEC 11694-2 describes the dimensions and location of the accessible area—the area on the card where data writing/reading occurs. This international standard was first published in 1995. ● ISO/IEC 11694-3 describes the optical properties and characteristics of the card and provides the technical specifications which allow interchange. This international standard was published in 1995. ● ISO/IEC 11694-4 describes the logical data structure on the card and defines the method of writing and reading card data. This international standard was published in 1996. ● ISO/IEC 11694-5 describes a data format for information interchange (to permit interoperability). This international standard was first published in 2006. ● ISO/IEC 11694-6 describes the method for the use of biometrics on an optical memory card. This international standard was first published in 2006. In the United States, ANSI (the American National Standards Institute) has adopted all of the above ISO Standards as ANSI/ISO Standards. Other standards defining the use of optical memory cards in certain application areas, such as driver’s license and interoperable ID documents, also exist. LaserCard® Manufacturing We have LaserCard® optical memory card manufacturing operations located in Mountain View, California, and a subset of these capabilities in Rastede, Germany. We produce optical memory cards using either a roll-lamination process or a newer sheet-lamination process. The sheet-lamination process allows the use of high security offset printing and other special features, resulting in a premium card. We have an annual production capacity of 10 million roll-process cards in conjunction with approximately 9 million sheet-process cards depending upon the mix of features. Additional manufacturing equipment currently on order for delivery in September 2008 will increase our capacity for sheet-process cards to 16 million per year. Raw Materials We establish ongoing relationships with principal qualified suppliers to maintain adequate raw material supplies for the manufacture of optical memory cards and when commercially reasonable we utilize multiple suppliers and consider alternate suppliers. We maintain raw materials inventory levels that take into account current expected demand, order-to-delivery lead times, supplier production cycles, and minimum order quantities. If we are unable to buy raw materials in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, we would not be able to deliver products to customers on time. 9 Most of the raw materials used in the manufacture of optical memory cards are available from one or more qualified suppliers. Such materials include plastic films used in optical memory card production, which are available from one supplier in the U.S. and from multiple foreign suppliers. Processing chemicals, inks, and bonding adhesives are obtained from various U.S. and foreign suppliers. However, certain photographic films are commercially available solely from Eastman Kodak Company (Kodak) of the United States. No assurance can be given that Kodak will continue to supply such photographic films on a satisfactory basis and in sufficient quantities to meet our requirements. If Kodak were to discontinue manufacturing the film from which our optical media is made, we would endeavor to establish an alternate supplier for such film, although the purchase price could increase and reliability and quality could decrease from a new supplier. No assurance can be given that there will be adequate demand to attract a second source. In addition, an alternate supplier could encounter technical issues in producing the film as there may be know-how and manufacturing expertise which Kodak has developed over the years which an alternate supplier may have difficulty to replicate. We currently have on hand and on order enough of film inventory to produce cards for orders projected over the next nine to fifteen months. If Kodak announced that it would no longer offer film, we would request that Kodak provide us with a last-buy opportunity which we would plan to take maximum advantage of, although no assurance can be given that Kodak would provide us with such an opportunity. We have film on hand plus on order that we believe would provide us with an adequate supply to meet anticipated demand until we could locate and begin volume purchases from a second source. In addition, we are researching other materials for use as optical memory card media. LaserCard Read/Write Drives; Manufacturing and Parts/Components Optical memory cards are used in conjunction with a card read/write device (drive) that connects to a personal computer. The price, performance, and availability of read/write drives are factors in the commercialization of optical cards. We maintain read/write drive manufacturing operations in our Mountain View, California facility and have licensed Ritel of Italy for drive manufacturing. We continuously seek design and procurement changes to improve performance and reduce the drive selling price although much higher volumes would be required to significantly reduce the price further. To maintain adequacy of parts and components for the manufacture of read/write drives, we attempt to establish ongoing relationships with principal suppliers and obtain information about alternate suppliers. If we are unable to buy parts and components in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, we would not be able to deliver products to customers on time. We purchase read/write drive parts for our anticipated read/write drive demand, taking into consideration the order-to-delivery lead times of vendors and the economic purchase order quantity for such parts. The optical recording head currently used is a custom part obtained from one supplier: Audio-Technica Corp., of Japan. Application Programming Interface (APIs) and Application Software APIs. As part of our read/write drive and system sales, we include a comprehensive set of APIs in order for our customers to develop optical card applications. An API is a set of routines, protocols, and tools used by programmers for building software applications. LaserCard-related APIs control or facilitate the basic operations and read/write functions of optical memory card drives so that they can interface directly with personal computers. We develop LaserCard-related APIs such as device drivers, file system DLLs (dynamic link libraries), and custom software tools to enhance read/write drive integration. Custom Applications. We offer contract services for purchase by customers that require custom programming in the development and integration of their LaserCard® applications. We also make software available for purchase for demonstrating data storage, medical, and security concepts involving the LaserCard®, software-development tools for related peripherals, and a card issuance application software package. Application Software. End-user application software is an important factor in developing commercial markets for optical memory cards because it directs computers to do specific tasks related to the customer's end-user application for the LaserCard®. Typically, our value-added resellers (VARs) and/or their customers develop software for specific end-user applications. In this role, VARs may integrate optical card products into existing software products, write new application software for specific optical memory card programs, or license software from other VARs. Several VARs have written optical card software programs for applications. We market the BadgeMaker card personalization and issuing applications used for card issuance and data management; and the LaserBadge™ derivative of BadgeMaker, and a Biometric ID Verification System application. 10 API and application software sales have not been a significant portion of revenues thus far. To date, our software development unless part of a contract has been completed concurrent with the establishment of technological feasibility has been charged to research and development expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. LaserCard Biometric ID Verification System We have developed a LaserCard Biometric ID Verification System that can quickly confirm the authenticity and validity of optical memory card biometric ID cards sold to the U.S. government, read and display digitally stored photographs and other digital data from the cards, and biometrically verify the cardholders’ live-scanned fingerprints with the fingerprint templates stored on the cards at time of card issuance. We also are marketing the LaserCard Biometric ID Verification System as a "concept" package, meaning that software which performs the same functions (but not usable with U.S. government cards) is available in customized form to other customers for government, industrial, and commercial applications. Other Advanced-Technology Cards CCD was acquired by us on March 31, 2004 and is a recognized leader in Europe as a provider of advanced contactless card solutions, primarily in the consumer, special event, and access control sectors including gate systems for sporting events and student ID cards for German universities. CCD has the production capacity to manufacture up to 20 million advanced-technology specialty cards per year—including contactless RFID cards, and magnetic stripe cards—and markets cards, card printers, and system solutions worldwide under the Cards & More brand. The CCD card manufacturing plant in Rastede, Germany provides significant advanced-technology specialty card capacity and product flexibility to our product line. With expertise in contactless IC technology and high resolution security printing, the European factory positions us to move into new market areas. We recently introduced a new secure, laser engravable passport data page product, which features a unique hinge system designed to maximize durability when the polycarbonate page is incorporated into a traditional passport book. The data page can include a range of security features and an ICAO-compliant e-passport chip. The passport issuer personalizes the data page by laser engraving the passport holder’s facial image, demographics, and ICAO-compliant machine readable data onto the data page. We offer the data page both with and without the ICAO standard e-passport chip through partners to several countries in the process of upgrading their passports. We also offer turnkey non-optical card manufacturing facilities which include the supply and installation of state-of-the-art card production equipment, transfer of manufacturing know-how, training, and production support. Sales and Marketing We market our OMC products around the world, primarily through an indirect distribution channel comprised of Authorized Value-Added Resellers (VARs) and System Integrators (SIs). We offer for sale through the channel optical memory cards, optical card read/write drives and software, plus third-party peripherals, application-specific software, and increasingly, enabling services to assist in successful project implementation. These enabling services include custom software development, installation, training and support and ID Management System modules such as integrated personalization solutions, and data capture modules. VARs and SIs typically add value in the form of application software development and system integration. Sales to national governments, our largest market by volume and value, are almost exclusively indirect, through VARs and SIs. For example, products are sold indirectly to the government of Italy by our Rome-based VAR, Laser Memory Card S.p.A. Revenues by geographic region are shown in Note 4 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Virtually all foreign product and system sales have been made through VARs and SIs. We believe that international markets will be an important source of product sales and license revenue growth into the future. 11 Our LaserCard® optical memory cards sales and activities are conducted through our offices in Mountain View, California, New York, the Washington, D.C. area, and Ratingen, Germany. In addition, our website (www.lasercard.com) supports worldwide marketing activities. Our marketing and sales staff, general management, and technical personnel work closely with customers and provide pre-sales technical support to assist VARs and SIs. European Operations. Our German subsidiary, CCD, provides the marketing base for most of Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) and Asia and gives us an established footing in the European Union in the advanced-technology card market. CCD is a recognized leader in Europe as a provider of advanced contactless card solutions, primarily in the consumer, special event, and access control sectors. CCD also heads our EMEA optical memory card and systems sales effort. We believe that the European marketing base will accelerate EMEA acceptance of optical memory products in government and commercial solutions. CCD serves and supports its existing customer base for advanced-technology specialty cards and card printers, while adding dedicated resources to build the optical memory card business throughout the EMEA and Asia regions. We intend to focus principally on biometric ID solutions for national and regional governments in these areas of the world, as well as promoting optical cards in commercial and industrial markets which can benefit from the large data capacity and robust security that optical cards offer. Marketing Objectives: Our principal objectives are to: ● Maintain, leverage and expand the existing optical memory card user community of national and regional governments worldwide ● Increase revenues by selling enabling services, such as consulting, custom software development, and the development of integrated secure ID solutions, which can include data capture, personalization, and quality assurance modules ● Increase market share for specialized cards and associated ID management solutions, such as major event badging and access control, and university student ID, and expand sales of these products and services into the Americas Licensing The Company sold Prevent roll process optical card manufacturing equipment, granted Prevent an intellectual property rights license, and agreed to provide support to Prevent in its effort to establish an optical memory card manufacturing facility in Slovenia, as described under Note 2, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ” in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” In March 2008, Ritel became our non-exclusive licensee to manufacture in Italy and distribute world-wide our optical memory drives. Ritel, an Italian telecommunications and technology contract manufacturer, brings significant manufacturing know-how, new production processes, and new product development which could lead to lower cost drives. At least initially, we expect to supply parts sets to Ritel to manufacture the encoders with delivery of the first 400 units expected for September 2008. Also from time to time, we have offered other nonexclusive, royalty bearing licenses for optical card read/write drive manufacture, for assembly of read/write drives from kits, for optical card finishing using Company-supplied materials, and for card manufacturing. In the past, we also offered card distribution licenses to create distributors in select regions of the world that can buy cards wholesale from us at prices lower than those charged to VARs and other customers. During the past five years, there have been no material purchases of optical memory cards by these licensees. We conduct our licensing effort on a selective basis. The timing, number, type, and magnitude of future license sales, if any, cannot be predicted or inferred from past events. There is no assurance that any of our licensing effort will be successful. There were no license revenues earned during fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006. At March 31, 2008 there were $23.8 million in advance payments and $2.9 million in deferred revenue for the Prevent contract shown on our consolidated balance sheet as long term liabilities as further described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operation—License Fees and Other Revenues. 12 Competition Our primary competition comes from other card technologies, principally IC Chips (used in "smart cards") and RFID/contactless chips. Other, less significant competitors include 2-dimensional bar codes, optical CD or DVD Read Only and Recordable and emerging holographic data storage. The financial and marketing resources of some of our competitors are greater than ours. We believe that the LaserCard optical memory card's unsurpassed security, counterfeit and tamper resistance, storage capacity, rugged card construction, optional technology co-existence, ability to store audit trails, and over all price-performance ratio make the LaserCard® optical memory card a technology of choice for a variety of digital card applications, especially where security is paramount. In addition, centralized on-line databases combined with wide-area networks may limit the penetration of optical memory cards in certain applications, and is a form of competition. Smart Cards. The LaserCard® optical memory card competes primarily with cards that contain an IC microprocessor and memory. Known as "smart cards," or "chip cards," their prices and performance vary widely. The smart card uses a much lower cost read/write unit than is currently used with an optical card, although in contrast to an optical card reader, smart card readers typically have no intelligence and innate ability to recognize an authentic card. A typical smart card containing a 32-kilobyte IC Chip and a microprocessor is generally lower in cost than a 2.8 megabyte optical memory card, although adding operating systems, security certificates and applications to the smart card increases the cost very significantly. The IC card is more vulnerable to tampering and can be more easily damaged in everyday use, whereas the card construction and the use of polycarbonate plastic make the LaserCard® more rugged. Smart cards have less storage capacity than optical memory cards and are a more volatile storage media. They are mainly used in widespread banking and financial applications in markets outside North America as a more secure alternative to magnetic stripe cards. Companies that manufacture IC Chip cards of various types and storage capacities include Gemalto, Giesecke & Devrient GmbH, Sharp, Sagem Orga, and Oberthur Card Systems, many of which are substantially larger and have more resources than we do. Contactless Chips. Sometimes referred to as “RFID”, this technology has a predominant background in transit fare token applications and facility access. It has recently attracted a lot of attention for border facilitation and has been seen as competition to optical memory card in these markets. Contactless chips exhibit the same characteristics as the contact chips used on smart cards – limited memory, volatile storage, a relative lack of durability, and very low-cost associated read/write equipment albeit somewhat higher than the read/write equipment for contact chips. However, the technology has proven itself effective in certain markets, such as access control. One limitation of the typical contactless access control card is that there is no control on who is carrying the card. Thus, the system will grant access to anyone who finds or steals a genuine card. We believe that there are often no absolutes in comparing one card technology with another. Rather, each technology will either stand on its own merits when viewed against specific application requirements or a hybrid combination of technologies may deliver the “best of all worlds” solution. Currently, only we offer hybrid cards combining the optical memory technology of the LaserCard® with an embedded IC Chip (Optical/Smart™) or RFID chip (LaserPassTM). Other Card Products. Read-only memory cards such as 2-dimensional bar code cards are lower priced and compete with our read/write optical memory cards for certain markets, such as identification cards. However, our cards have significantly higher storage capacity and offer unique security features to deter counterfeiting and data tampering. Two-dimensional bar codes on cards store relatively small amounts of static data compared to the LaserCard® and are not updatable. Moreover, alternative technologies—such as IC Chips, radio frequency (RF) circuitry, and bar codes—can be incorporated into our optical memory cards, thereby adding additional performance features to the LaserCard®. Experimental card technologies probably are under development at other companies. Other Optical Memory Cards and Equipment. We previously licensed our card patents to two Japanese companies, Canon Inc. and Dai Nippon Printing Co., Ltd., which are not manufacturing or selling such cards at this time. In addition, as described in the “Licensing” section, Prevent holds a card-manufacturing license in Slovenia. Under these royalty-bearing licenses, the licensees have the right to manufacture and sell optical memory cards in competition with the LaserCard®. Prevent is not yet capable of manufacturing optical cards, but has informed us that their goal is to become operational in about one year. Prevent could become a competitor in certain European countries. However, exclusivity provisions of the license preclude competition in certain markets. For example, we are prohibited from competing in an Eastern European country, and Prevent is not authorized to market outside of European countries. Ritel of Italy is also licensed to manufacture our optical memory drives and to distribute them world-wide. 13 Recordable CD and DVD optical media are currently made in card shaped form factors that function with standard CD and DVD players. These cards have high-data capacity, storing hundreds of megabytes of data, and have high data transfer rates. The typical purchase price is less than $1.00 each for a blank card. The cards are typically 1.2-millimeter thick and therefore they do not meet the ISO Standards for either credit cards or ID-1 identification cards and do not exhibit the durability required of an ID card carried in the wallet. These cards typically serve other markets such as advertising and promotional applications. Other Matters Research and Development Our research and development expenses were $2.9 million for fiscal year 2008; $3.1 million for fiscal year 2007; and $2.3 million for fiscal year 2006. We are continuing our effort to enhance our optical memory card business, including to develop new optical memory card features such as hybrid cards with contactless chips with radio frequency (RF) capability, to augment our optical memory card media, to reduce the cost and improve the performance of our optical memory card read/write drives and read-only drives (readers), and to develop new OpticalProximityTM systems, card personalization systems, and software products in an effort to strengthen our existing products and provide new products that can stimulate optical memory card sales growth. For example, we have developed an Optical/RFID card to compete in the emerging RFID marketplace. We anticipate that these ongoing research and development effort will result in new or enhanced card capabilities, production-model read-only drives, or drives with advanced security features and lower manufacturing costs; however, there is no assurance that such product development effort will be successful. These factors are important for our existing and future optical memory card markets. Also see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis.” Patents and Trademarks Optical Data Storage. As of March 31, 2008, we owned approximately 21 U.S. patents relating to optical data storage (including optical storage media, optical cards, formats, equipment, systems, software, the utilization of optical storage media, and e-commerce technology), and other U.S. and foreign patent applications have been filed. Approximately 30 counterpart patents of certain U.S. patents are issued in various foreign countries. However, we own certain U.S. patents as to which foreign counterparts have either not been filed or the examination process has been terminated without issuance of the foreign patents. From time to time, we elect to allow some of our U.S. or foreign patents to expire when maintenance fees become due if the patents are deemed no longer relevant. In addition, we protect as trade secrets some refinements to the optical media and cards and know-how related to card production. Also, our know-how and experience in volume card production; system development and software capabilities; brand-name recognition within our card markets; and dominant-supplier status for optical-memory cards are of far greater importance than our patents. Therefore, at this time, we believe that our patent portfolio is helpful but is no longer materially meaningful for maintaining the LaserCard®’s market position. Our U.S. patents have expiration dates ranging from the period 2008 to 2023, with the majority expiring during the first part of this period. Counterpart patents in foreign countries also expire during this period, usually about two to three years after the U.S. patent expires. We cannot predict whether the expiration or invalidation of our patents would result in the introduction of competitive products which would adversely affect our future revenues. We presently intend to pursue any infringement of our patents either by litigation, arbitration or negotiation. However, there can be no assurance that any of our patents will be sufficiently broad in scope to afford protection from products with comparable characteristics that may be sold by competitors in the future. There also can be no assurance that the validity of any patents actually granted will not be challenged. 14 LaserCard® is a federally registered trademark of LaserCard Corporation. We believe that our LaserCard® brand name, trade name, and other trademarks are important assets in marketing optical memory card products. Employees As of March 31, 2008, we employed 227 full-time, part-time, and agency personnel (including four executive officers). Our 140-person U.S. workforce consisted of 118 personnel in administration, marketing/sales, manufacturing, and research and development, plus 22 temporary personnel mainly engaged in manufacturing and the inspection of cards for quality assurance. The German subsidiary employed 87 full and part-time personnel as of March 31, 2008. None of our employees is represented by a labor union. Dependence on Government Subcontracts through Sole Contractors The largest purchaser of LaserCard products is a government prime contractor, General Dynamics Information Technology (GDIT), previously Anteon International Corporation. GDIT is the government contractor for our LaserCard® product sales to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of State (DOS), U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), and the government of Canada. Under government contracts with GDIT, the DHS purchases U.S. Permanent Resident Cards (Green Cards) and DOS Laser Visa Border Crossing Cards (BCCs); the DOD purchases Automated Manifest System cards; and the Canadian government purchases Permanent Resident Cards. Encompassing all of these programs, our product sales to GDIT represented 29% of total revenues for fiscal year 2008; 28% of total revenues for fiscal year 2007; and 31% of total revenues for fiscal year 2006. The slight increase in fiscal 2008 as compared with fiscal 2007 was due to higher than average shipments of Canadian Permanent Resident Cards in fiscal 2008. The proportion of revenues represented by GDIT decreased in fiscal year 2007 as compared to fiscal year 2006, and is anticipated to decrease in the future as we generate increased revenues from other sources. Since the ultimate customers are national governments, we are not dependent upon any one specific contractor for continued revenues from these programs. Although not anticipated, if GDIT were to discontinue its participation as contractor, other qualified contractors could be utilized by those governments for purchasing our products, although the process of doing so could cause program delays. Sales of DHS Green Cards and DOS Laser Visa BCCs represented approximately 20% of our revenue for fiscal year 2008; 23% of revenues for fiscal year 2007; and 24% of revenues for fiscal year 2006. We are currently delivering on orders placed under an up-to-five-year U.S. government subcontract received in March 2007 of which the first year was exercised. Backlog at March 31, 2008 for these programs, which is deliverable through June 2008, totaled $1.6 million. Our revenues derived from sales to the government of Italy for its citizen ID card program, Carta d’Identità Elettronica (CIE), accounted for 1% of revenues for fiscal year 2008 and 2007 and 18% of revenues for fiscal year 2006. Revenues on the Italian foreign resident card program, Permesso di Soggiorno Elettronico cards and Italian Carta di Soggiorno Elettronica cards, (referred to on a combined basis as PSE/CSE) accounted for 7% of Company revenues in fiscal year 2007. There was no revenue recognized during fiscal year 2008 for this program. Card orders under these programs are placed with us through our value-added reseller, Laser Memory Card S.p.A. The Italian government successfully concluded the experimental phase of the CIE citizen ID program using LaserCard® optical memory cards and enacted a law to replace paper ID documents with electronic documents starting January 2006. The program then stalled and has yet to be fully implemented, although the Italian government did set the price citizens pay for cards earlier in calendar year 2007. If the CIE and PSE systems function as designed, card orders could ramp toward their full implementation level which could potentially result in annual revenues of $40 million for these programs. We received and shipped a small order for foreign language versions of the CIE card during fiscal year 2008. Since fiscal year 2005, we have supplied approximately $15.4 million worth of optical memory cards and more than 450 encoders for these programs. On January 4, 2008, a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued by Italy's state printer, Istituto Poligrafico e Zecca dello Stato S.p.A. (Poligrafico), inviting interested parties to submit their qualifications to bid on an anticipated follow-on RFP for up to 60 million euros (approximately $88 million) in key components and installation and support services for the national infrastructure required to roll out the CIE card program. The RFP specifies a requirement for more than 9,000 enrollment workstations to be installed and supported nationwide in regional and city-based service centers. The workstations will be employed in gathering personal information of citizens prior to issuance of their CIE ID cards. The RFP also specifies installation and support services for about 1,300 secure optical memory card encoders. While we do not provide these workstations and services, this is a key step for building the infrastructure needed to move the program to full implementation. We believe that Poligrafico will request us to supply the 1,300 encoders or part sets to Ritel via a separate purchase order. We believe these are positive signs for the growth of the CIE program. 15 Backlog As of March 31, 2008, the backlog for LaserCard® optical memory cards totaled $2.5 million scheduled for delivery through June 2008, compared with $5.7 million at March 31, 2007, and $8.3 million at March 31, 2006. We have only a few customers who generally place orders for a several-month period so that variations in order placement from a single customer can materially affect backlog. As a result, the relative size of our backlog has not been a reliable indicator of our future sales revenue trends. The backlog as of March 31, 2008 for specialty cards and printers totaled 1.1 million euros (approximately $1.8 million) compared with 0.6 million euros (approximately $0.8 million) at March 31, 2007 and 0.8 million euros (approximately $1.0 million) at March 31, 2006. In addition, we have a contract to deliver a turnkey non-optical card manufacturing facility in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia valued at 5.9 million euros (approximately $9.3 million) and a contract to develop a conventional non-optical card production facility elsewhere valued at 0.5 million euros (approximately $0.8 million) at March 31, 2008 compared with 0.7 million euros (approximately $0.9 million) at March 31, 2007 and 0.7 million euros (approximately $0.8 million) at March 31, 2006. Revenue on the contract for a conventional non-optical card production facility contract is being recorded on a zero profit margin basis while the revenue recognition for the manufacturing facility has been deferred. Therefore, the total profit under this contract will be recorded upon completion which is expected during fiscal year 2009. We also have received payment of approximately $27.0 million from our Prevent contract for license fees and equipment for which revenue recognition has been deferred. At March 31, 2008, our backlog in the drives, systems, and services was $1.1 million due largely to the Costa Rica contract for an ID Management System for that country’s Foreign Resident program. We had no significant backlog for drives, systems, and services at March 31, 2007, and 2006. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Financial information about geographic areas is described in Note 4 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 16 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE EXPECTED REVENUES ARE DERIVED FROM A SMALL NUMBER OF ULTIMATE CUSTOMERS SO THAT THE LOSS OF OR REDUCTIONS IN PURCHASES BY ANY ONE ULTIMATE CUSTOMER COULD MATERIALLY REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND LEAD TO LOSSES. During the fiscal year 2008 and each of the previous three fiscal years, we derived on average 59% of our revenues from six programs ― two U.S. government programs and four foreign government programs. Due to the lengthy sales cycles, we believe that these programs, with perhaps the addition of a few other foreign programs, will be the basis for a majority of our revenues in the near-term. The loss of or reductions in purchases by any one customer due to program cutbacks, competition, or other reasons could materially reduce our revenue base. Annual or quarterly losses have occurred when there are material reductions, gaps or delays in card orders from our largest U.S. or foreign government programs or if such programs were to be reduced in scope, delayed, canceled, or not extended and not replaced by other card orders or other sources of income. WE INCURRED NET LOSSES DURING ALL BUT THREE OF THE PREVIOUS NINETEEN QUARTERS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT REVENUE IN THE FUTURE TO REGAIN PROFITABILITY. Although we generated $3.3 million of profit during the three quarters from October 1, 2005 through June 30, 2006, we incurred a loss for our last seven quarters and we had incurred losses as well for the ten quarters preceding the quarter ended October 1, 2005. We incurred a loss for fiscal year 2008 aggregating $7.2 million and a loss of $12.4 million for fiscal year 2007, generated a profit of $0.8 million in fiscal year 2006, and had an accumulated deficit of $46 million at March 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that we will generate enough revenues in the near term to achieve profitability. We are relying principally upon our optical memory card technology to generate future product revenues, earnings, and cash flows. If alternative technologies emerge or if we are otherwise unable to compete, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Annual or quarterly losses would also continue if increases in product revenues or license revenues do not keep pace with increased expenses. OUR PROGRAM IN ITALY, WHICH WE BELIEVE WILL BE ONE OF OUR LARGEST CUSTOMERS ONCE FULLY IMPLEMENTED, MAY BE FURTHER DELAYED OR CANCELLED FOR REASONS OUTSIDE OUR CONTROL WHICH WOULD CAUSE US TO HAVE LESS REVENUE THAN PLANNED AND WOULD LIKELY LEAD US TO CONTINUED OPERATING LOSSES IF OTHER EXPECTED BUSINESS DOES NOT MATERIALIZE. We believe that the Italian government will be our largest customer when the CIE program is fully implemented. We expect that CIE, and PSE/CSE card programs may comprise a significant portion of future revenues. Sales of cards and drives for the Italian government’s CIE, and PSE/CSE card programs have been a small portion of our total revenue for the past two years. However, during fiscal year 2007, we increased card manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated demand and we have expected a large order since the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. This order has not yet been placed and there can be no assurance that the order will be placed in the near-term or that demand will increase or be sustained as we anticipate. We would most likely continue to incur losses if full implementation does not occur or if orders are further delayed, or if the program is not implemented at the level foreseen or if the government was to change its technology decision and no longer use optical memory cards and other new programs do not materialize as expected. While selected Italian cities have issued cards and tested the distributed card issuing process and the Italian government has recently solicited interested parties to provide their qualifications for expansion of the data collection and issuance infrastructure, full implementation is dependent upon regionalized and further decentralized card issuance infrastructure developments being successfully undertaken and the national ID card system functioning as designed, of which there can be no assurance. Overcoming some of these issues may be difficult and complex and involve third parties, which could be time consuming and expensive and lead to further delays for implementation. Ritel S.p.A, our new drive manufacturing licensee in Italy may not devote substantial resources to the program and as a result may not lead to further innovation and development of lower cost drives. In addition, our expectation that Italy’s state printer, Istituto Poligrafico e Zecca dello Stato S.p.A. (Poligrafico) will order about 1,300 secure optical memory card encoders may not materialize. Also Poligrafico may not proceed timely with the planned expansion of infrastructure for data collection, card issuance, and maintenance services. In this case, our estimate of $40 million in annual revenue at full implementation would be further delayed and be at risk. 17 THE U.S. GOVERNMENT, ONE OF OUR TWO LARGEST ULTIMATE CUSTOMERS, HAS THE RIGHT TO DELAY ITS ORDERS OR COULD CHANGE ITS TECHNOLOGY DECISIONS, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN ORDER DELAYS AND POSSIBLY IN OPERATING LOSSES. Our fiscal year 2008 revenues includes sales of approximately $7.4 million of Green Cards and Laser Visa BCCs, and comprised 20% of our total revenue. We expect the Green Card revenue to continue at approximately $8 million annually if the U.S. government continues to use our cards in this program, continues to personalize cards at that rate and continues to maintain an inventory level equal to six-months of usage. On April 2, 2007, we announced a subcontract with General Dynamics Information Technology (GDIT) for the manufacture and supply of Green Cards and Laser Visas. The subcontract is for an initial 12-month period with four optional one-year extensions of which the first year was exercised. Under U.S. government procurement regulations, even with a contract in place, the government reserves certain rights, such as the right to withhold releases, to reduce the quantities released, extend delivery dates, reduce the rate at which cards are issued, and cancel all or part of its unfulfilled purchase orders. At March 31, 2008 we have $1.6 million in backlog for this program. We have recorded revenues of $6.4 million for Green Cards during fiscal year 2008. Also, the Green Card is currently undergoing a redesign process. As part of the technology refreshment process, the DHS placed a $170,000 order to supply next generation encoders and associated software for the Green Card program. It is possible that our revenue will be reduced during the period of transition from the current card to the new design after which we would expect orders to increase as their inventory is rebuilt to their desired safety-stock level. We would most likely have reduced operating results if the Green Card program were to be delayed, canceled, or not extended or if the government were to change its technology decision and no longer use optical memory cards. The U.S. government recently announced that it had awarded the Passport Card program to another company for a non-optical card technology which we expect would replace the Laser Visa BCCs if and when implemented unless the technology decision changes. Therefore, we may not receive further orders for Laser Visa BCCs as the government has about 9 months of inventory on hand. We have recorded revenues of $1.0 million for Laser Visa BCCs during fiscal year 2008. OUR OPTICAL MEMORY CARD PRODUCT REVENUES WILL NOT GROW IF WE DO NOT WIN NEW BUSINESS IN THE U.S. OR ABROAD AND IF THE ITALIAN AND ANGOLAN NATIONAL ID PROGRAMS ARE NOT IMPLEMENTED AS ANTICIPATED. Our OMC revenues from our core programs were $21.6 million, $16.3 million, and $25.7 million during fiscal years 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. These programs include the U.S. Green Card, the Laser Visa BCC, the Canadian Permanent Resident Card, the vehicle registration cards used by three states in India, Italy's national ID program, and a national ID card used in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. During full implementation, we expect our revenues from programs in Italy will reach approximately $40 million per year. On January 17, 2008, we announced that we were part of the winning team for a national ID card project in Angola. Revenues could total $90 million over five years for this project. We are also working on potential secure ID card business in more than ten countries around the world. In order for us to achieve our overall revenue growth goal, we will need the Italian programs to continue and reach their anticipated levels, of which there can be no assurance, and we will also need to win some of the new business opportunities we see in the U.S. and abroad. Emerging optical memory card programs or prospective applications include permanent resident cards and national identification cards in several countries such as in Angola as well as secure identification cards for governmental agencies. There can be no assurance that we will receive sizable future orders for any of these programs, nor any assurance that we will be able to win any other new business in the U.S. or abroad which is necessary to grow our business to the level we desire. SINCE THE SALES CYCLE FOR OUR PRODUCTS IS TYPICALLY LONG AND UNPREDICTABLE, WE HAVE DIFFICULTY PREDICTING WHEN NEW BUSINESS WILL CONTRIBUTE TO REVENUE GROWTH. Obtaining substantial orders usually involves a lengthy sales cycle, requiring marketing and technical time and expense with no guarantee that substantial orders will result. This long sales cycle results in uncertainties in predicting operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. In addition, since our major marketing programs involve the U.S. and various foreign governments and quasi-governmental organizations, additional uncertainties and extended sales cycles can result. Factors which increase the length of the sales cycle include government regulations, bidding procedures, budget cycles, and other government procurement procedures, as well as changes in governmental policy. 18 WE COULD EXPERIENCE EQUIPMENT, RAW MATERIAL, QUALITY CONTROL, OR OTHER PRODUCTION PROBLEMS ESPECIALLY IN PERIODS OF INCREASING VOLUME. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our projected card manufacturing capacity if and when customer orders reach higher levels. We have made and intend to continue to make significant capital expenditures to expand our card manufacturing capacity. For example, we may invest up to $7 million of capital expenditures during the next twelve months assuming certain business developments. However, since customer demand is difficult to predict, and we generally wait for such demand to materialize prior to making capital expenditure commitments, we may be unable to ramp up our production quickly enough to fill new customer orders in a timely fashion. This could cause us to lose new business and possibly existing business. In addition, if we overestimate customer demand, we could incur significant costs from creating excess capacity which was the case during fiscal years 2007 and 2008. We may experience manufacturing complications associated with increasing our manufacturing capacity of cards and drives, including the adequate production capacity for sheet-lamination process cards to meet order requirements and delivery schedules. We may also experience difficulties implementing new manufacturing processes, meeting customers’ quality or standards requirements, or outsourcing some of our manufacturing. The addition of fixed overhead costs increases our breakeven point and results in lower profit margins unless compensated for by increased product sales. When purchasing raw materials for our anticipated optical card demand, we take into consideration the order-to-delivery lead times of vendors and the economic purchase order quantity for such raw materials. If we over-estimate customer demand, excess raw material inventory can result. WE ARE CURRENTLY OUR OWN SOLE SOURCE OF OPTICAL MEMORY CARDS AND SEVERAL OF THE STEPS IN OUR CARD MANUFACTURING PROCESS HAVE NO BUILT-IN REDUNDANCY. THEREFORE, WE ARE SUSCEPTIBLE TO SUPPLY INTERRUPTIONS, INCLUDING IF CERTAIN MACHINERY WERE TO BREAK DOWN. MUCH OF OUR MANUFACTURING EQUIPMENT IS COMPRISED OF CUSTOM VERSIONS OF MACHINERY SOME OF WHICH IS MORE THAN 20 YEARS OLD. IN ADDITION, WE ARE AT RISK OF LOSING OR NOT OBTAINING CERTAIN PROGRAMS SHOULD THEY REQUIRE A SECOND SOURCE. We are the only source of our optical memory cards, making them in our Mountain View facility using a proprietary manufacturing process, with our German subsidiary capable of performing a few key steps in certain instances. We use a proprietary manufacturing process with custom machinery and several of the steps in our card manufacturing process have no built-in redundancy, or in some cases have the redundancy located in Germany. We are susceptible to supply interruptions or yield decreases when our line goes down or malfunctions. Much of our machinery is comprised of customized versions of machinery which has long lead times to replace and may be difficult to maintain or repair, requiring us to be self-reliant. Some of the machinery we use is more than 20 years old and is no longer manufactured for others, which would require us to adapt a newer version to our needs, which would involve additional delay and effort on our part. There are plans to establish additional optical card manufacturing capability in Germany towards the end of fiscal year 2009 or beginning of fiscal year 2010 which may alleviate some of the potential for supply interruption in the future but there can be no assurance that we will proceed as planned or be successful and such expansion may adversely affect production efficiency while in progress. If current or potential customers require a second source for optical memory cards (which is a common business practice), they could decide to use alternate technology cards, such as chip cards, that may have multiple sources of supply. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO BUY RAW MATERIALS IN SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES AND ON A TIMELY BASIS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO DELIVER PRODUCTS TO CUSTOMERS ON TIME WHICH COULD CAUSE US TO LOSE CUSTOMERS, AND OUR REVENUES COULD DECLINE. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for optical card raw materials. Such materials include plastic films used in optical memory card production, which are available from one supplier in the U.S. and from multiple foreign suppliers. Processing chemicals, inks, and bonding adhesives are obtained from various U.S. and foreign suppliers. Certain photographic films are commercially available solely from Eastman Kodak Company, of the United States. We do not expect any difficulty in obtaining the film necessary for orders projected over the next nine to fifteen months considering the inventory currently on hand and on order. No assurance can be given that Kodak will continue to supply such photographic films on a satisfactory basis and in sufficient quantities although we believe Kodak will continue to supply such films for several years. If Kodak were to announce that it was no longer going to sell film, we would request that Kodak provide us with a last-buy opportunity which we would plan to take maximum advantage of in order to purchase from Kodak sufficient supply of films to continue our card production until an appropriate substitute can be found or developed, although no assurance can be given that Kodak would provide us with such an opportunity. Also we have ongoing R&D effort in the area of alternate media, designed to develop an alternate to the current Kodak film-based media, though there is no assurance that those effort will be successful. THE UNPRECEDENTED RISE IN PETROLEUM COST WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING INCOME AND GROSS MARGIN IF RELATIVE INCREASES IN THE COST OF OUR PRODUCTION MATERIALS SUCH AS THE POLYCARBONATE-BASED PRODUCTS OCCUR AND THE RELATED SELLING PRICES ARE NOT ADJUSTED FOR INFLATION. The polycarbonate raw material for our cards is petroleum based. The unprecedented rise in the cost of petroleum could impact our costs for such raw material and lead to higher energy bills for running our manufacturing facilities. This could lead to a decline in our gross margins and income unless we are able to adjust our selling prices. 19 AN INTERRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY OF READ/WRITE DRIVE PARTS OR DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED IN READ/WRITE DRIVE ASSEMBLY COULD CAUSE A DELAY IN DELIVERIES OF DRIVES AND OPTICAL MEMORY CARDS AND A POSSIBLE LOSS OF SALES, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Several major components of our read/write drive are designed specifically for that unit. For example, the optical recording head for the current drive is a part obtained from one supplier; and at current production volumes, it is not economical to have more than one supplier for this custom component. The ability to produce read/write drives in high-volume, if required, will be dependent upon maintaining or developing sources of supply of components that meet our requirements for high volume, quality, and cost. In addition, we could encounter quality control or other production problems at high-volume production of read/write drives. We are also investing in research and development in an effort to develop new drive products. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP UPGRADED READ/WRITE DRIVES THAT COST LESS TO MANUFACTURE AND ALSO A READ-ONLY DRIVE, WE COULD LOSE POTENTIAL NEW BUSINESS. The selling price of our read/write drive products range from $1,800 to approximately $2,500 each depending on features and quantity purchased. We believe the price of our drives is competitive in applications requiring a large number of cards per drive, because the relatively low cost for our cards offsets the high cost per drive when compared with our major competition, IC card systems. In addition, we have undertaken a product development program for a portable read-only drive that has been sampled in limited quantities at prices less than $1,000, which we believe would increase our prospects for winning future business. However, there can be no assurance that our development program will be successful, that volume production of any new design will occur in the near term, or that significantly lower manufacturing costs or increased sales will result. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADAPT OUR TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTS TO COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS WHICH GENERATE MATERIAL AMOUNTS OF REVENUE AND PROFIT. THIS WOULD LIMIT THE FUTURE GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS TO THE GOVERNMENT SECTOR AND THE LACK OF DIVERSIFICATION EXPOSES US TO ENHANCED RISK OF COMPETITION. We are exploring commercial applications for our optical memory products in order to lessen our dependence upon the government sector. We may be unsuccessful in these effort in which case we would not obtain the diversity of revenues we are seeking for the future. If our customer base remains limited to secure ID card applications for government use, then we are more susceptible to other technologies and products making in-roads or to political pressures or changing laws. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADAPT TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN THE SECURE ID CARD INDUSTRY AND IN THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY GENERALLY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY COMPETE FOR FUTURE BUSINESS. The secure ID technology industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing product evolution. The future success and growth of our business will require the ability to maintain and enhance the technological capabilities of the LaserCard® product line. There can be no assurance that our products currently sold or under development will remain competitive or provide sustained revenue growth. SEVERAL OF OUR FOREIGN PROGRAMS INVOLVE OUR CARDS AS PART OF A SOLUTION WHICH INCLUDES TECHNOLOGIES OF THIRD PARTIES. SOMETIMES THESE THIRD PARTY TECHNOLOGIES ARE INTEGRATED WITH OUR CARDS BY OUR SYSTEMS INTEGRATOR CUSTOMER OR SUBCONTRACTOR. WE THEREFORE HAVE VARYING DEGREES OF CONTROL OVER THE OVERALL SYSTEM WHICH COULD LEAD TO TECHNICAL, QUALITY, AND SYSTEM COMPATIBILITY ISSUES WHICH ARE DIFFICULT, EXPENSIVE, AND TIME CONSUMING TO SOLVE. THIS COULD CAUSE OUR ULTIMATE CUSTOMERS, GENERALLY GOVERNMENTS, TO FIND FAULT IN OPTICAL CARDS AND SWITCH TO OTHER SOLUTIONS EVEN THOUGH OUR OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY IS NOT THE ROOT CAUSE OF ANY FAULT. In certain of our current foreign programs such as Italy, India, and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and possibly in other future programs, various third party technologies such as contact or contactless chips are added to our cards. The embedding or addition of other technologies to the LaserCard® optical memory card, especially when contracted to independent third parties, could potentially lead to technical, compatibility and other issues. In such circumstances, it may be difficult to determine whether a fault originated with our technology or that of a co-supplier or the person embedding or adding the third party technology to our cards. If such faults occur, they could be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming to resolve. Such difficulties could lead to our ultimate customers, the foreign governments, switching to other technologies even though optical technology is not the root cause of the fault(s). The resulting loss of customers would adversely affect our revenues. 20 WE ARE LARGELY DEPENDENT ON SYSTEMS INTEGRATORS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF CARD PROGRAMS AND THEIR METHOD OF IMPLEMENTATION MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL DUE TO QUALITY OR COST. We sell to VARs and system integrators who in turn sell solutions to the end customer. The integrators may not follow the recommendations we provide for the handling, possible incorporation of smart or RFID chips, processing, and/or printing on our cards and working with the end-user in the card issuing process. This could lead to low quality or high costs or both resulting in damage to our reputation and/or loss of the contract. This happened in Costa Rica where we believe issues with our systems integrator caused quality issues which have led us to deal directly in this phase with the Costa Rican government. We work to train the integrators to avoid such situations, but cannot control their work. Also, we can step in to demonstrate how to successfully implement an optical memory card issuing system. We plan to continue to offer this support and then transition the card issuing process to local resources once the program is running successfully. There can be no assurance that issues with our systems integrators in the future will not damage our reputation, reduce our revenues, or cause us to lose various governmental programs. OUR OPTICAL MEMORY CARDS HAVE A COMPLEX STRUCTURE THAT REQUIRES A HIGH DEGREE OF TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE TO MEET INCREASINGLY STRINGENT PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS. WE HAVE AND COULD IN THE FUTURE AGREE TO CERTAIN CHARACTERISTICS BEYOND THOSE REQUIRED IN INDEPENDENTLY PUBLISHED STANDARDS. THIS COULD INCREASE OUR COST OF MANUFACTURING CARDS OR RESULT IN ACCEPTING RETURNS OR GIVING CREDITS TO THE CUSTOMER. MANY CUSTOMERS MAINTAIN SIGNIFICANT ADVANCE INVENTORY WHICH INCREASES THIS RISK. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet customers’ quality or standards requirements consistently. This could lead to high manufacturing costs due to low product yields or unexpected product returns. We employ a rigorous quality control procedure, are ISO 9000 certified and we strive to deliver product that meets published standards and customer expectations. Even so, we cannot give assurance that our products will meet customer expectations in all cases. We have in the past, and we may in the future, replace product held by the customer or give credit for products previously delivered. IF WE FAIL TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, COMPETITORS MAY BE ABLE TO USE OUR TECHNOLOGIES, WHICH COULD WEAKEN OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION, REDUCE REVENUES, OR INCREASE COSTS. We use a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Despite our effort to protect proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as U.S. law. Any patents we may obtain may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around any of our issued patents or other intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may not ultimately be successful. We cannot predict whether the expiration or invalidation of our patents would result in the introduction of competitive products that would affect our future revenues adversely. However, since our technology is now in the commercial stage, our know-how and experience in volume card production, system development and software capabilities, brand-name recognition within our card markets, and dominant-supplier status for optical memory cards are of far greater importance than our patents. At this time, we believe that our existing patent portfolio is helpful but is no longer essential for maintaining the LaserCard® optical memory card's market position. THE MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY, REVENUES COULD DECLINE OR FAIL TO GROW. Our optical memory cards may compete with optical memory cards that can be manufactured and sold by three of our licensees (although none is currently doing so) and with other types of portable data storage cards and technologies used for the storage and transfer of digital information. These may include contact or contactless integrated circuit (IC) chip cards; holographic optical storage cards, 2-dimensional bar code cards and symbology cards; thick, rigid CD or DVD read-only cards or recordable cards; radio frequency, or RFID cards; and small, digital devices such as data-storage keys, tokens, and small cards and tags. The financial and marketing resources of some of the competing companies are greater than our resources. Competitive product factors include system/card portability, interoperability, price-performance ratio of cards and associated equipment, durability, environmental tolerance, and card security. Although we believe our cards offer key technological and security advantages for certain applications, the current price of optical card read/write drives is a competitive disadvantage in some of our targeted markets. However, we believe the price of our drives is competitive in applications requiring a large number of cards per drive, because the relatively low cost for our cards offsets the high cost per drive when compared with our major competition, IC card systems. In countries where the telecommunications infrastructure is extensive and low cost, centralized databases and wide-area networks may limit the penetration of optical memory cards. These trends toward Internet, intranet, and remote wireless networks will in some cases preclude potential applications for our cards. 21 THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT VOLATILITY. The price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility, which may be due to fluctuations in revenues, earnings, liquidity, press coverage, financial market interest, trading volume, and stock market conditions, as well as changes in technology and customer demand and preferences. As a result, our stock price might be low at the time a stockholder wants to sell the stock. Also, since we have a relatively low number of shares outstanding (approximately 12 million shares) there will be more volatility in our stock if one or two major holders, for example, large institutional holders, attempt to sell a large number of shares in the open market. Furthermore, our trading volume is often small, meaning that a few trades may have disproportionate influence on our stock price. In addition, someone seeking to liquidate a sizeable position in our stock may have difficulty doing so except over an extended period or privately at a discount. Thus, if one or more stockholders were to sell or attempt to sell a large number of its shares within a short period of time, such sale or attempt could cause our stock price to decline. There can be no guarantee that stockholders will be able to sell the shares that they acquired at a price per share equal to the price they paid for the stock. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CHANGES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. Part of the manufacturing process of certain LaserCard products that we sell outside the U.S. takes place in our operations in Germany. Also, some of the raw materials we use to manufacture optical memory cards are sourced in Europe. These costs are denominated in euros, the currency used in much of Europe. However, when we sell our finished products, the prices that we charge are denominated in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we are subject to exposure when the exchange rate for euros increases in relation to the U.S. dollar. Recent declines in the U.S. dollar value relative to the euro and other currencies, if not reversed, will further result in increases in raw material costs. As of March 31, 2008, we had not entered into a forward exchange contract to hedge against or potentially minimize the foreign currency exchange risk related to transactions other than those related to inter-company payables and receivables. The losses on foreign currency exchange related to purchase transactions and intercompany receivables for both fiscal years 2008 and 2007 were immaterial. WE HAVE INVESTED A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF OUR CASH IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES, WHICH SUBJECTS US TO LIQUIDITY RISK AND COULD REQUIRE US TO RECORD FURTHER IMPAIRMENT CHARGES IF THE FAIR VALUE OF THESE INVESTMENTS DECLINE PERMANENTLY OR ARE OTHER-THAN TEMPORARILY IMPAIRED. IN ADDITION, SHOULD WE UNEXPECTEDLY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL CASH RESOURCES, AN ABSENCE OF LIQUIDITY FROM THESE INVESTMENTS COULD REQUIRE US TO SEEK FUNDS ELSEWHERE, WHICH MAY BE MORE UNATTRACTIVE OR UNAVAILABLE. Auction rate securities are securities that are structured with short-term interest rate reset dates of generally 28 to 35 days but with contractual maturities that can be well in excess of ten years. Our auction rate securities consist of investments that are secured by pools of student loans which are guaranteed for 95% of principal and interest under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP) and are AAA rated. We do not own, and have not invested in, any auction rate securities secured by mortgages or collateralized debt obligations. At the end of each reset period, we can sell or continue to hold the securities at par value. This auction process has historically provided a liquid market for auction rate securities. Recently, however, certain auction rate securities experienced failed auctions due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. We continued to see deterioration in the market for these types of securities which spread from initially primarily subprime mortgage related securities to other forms of securities. We believe that the credit quality of these securities is high based on these guarantees. The funds associated with failed auctions will not be accessible until a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the underlying securities have matured or are recalled by the issuer. Given the recent disruptions in the credit markets and the fact that the liquidity for these types of securities remains uncertain, as of March 31, 2008, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as a long-term asset in our consolidated balance sheet as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. We have also recorded a temporary impairment within other accumulated comprehensive loss of approximately $0.6 million at March 31, 2008, related to these auction rate securities and we may have to incur further temporary impairment if the situation does not change. If the fair value of these investments declines permanently or is other-than temporarily impaired, we would be required to take a further impairment charge which would flow through our income statement as an expense and could cause us to incur a loss for the relevant fiscal period. 22 We believe that we have sufficient available cash to execute our business plan for fiscal 2009 as we expect the estimated level of revenues and customer advance payments over the next twelve months to be sufficient to generate cash from operating activities over the same period. A portion of our capital expenditures will require debt financing which we believe can be obtained on reasonable terms. Although quarterly fluctuations are expected, we do not expect to have a need for liquidity for our funds invested in auction rate securities during fiscal 2009 or 2010 to fund our operations. However, operating cash flows could be negatively impacted to a significant degree if our largest U.S. government program were to be delayed, reduced, canceled, or not extended; if the Angolan national ID card program does not materialize as planned internally; and if these programs are not replaced by other card orders or other sources of income. Should we unexpectedly require additional cash resources, an absence of liquidity from our auction rate investments could require us to seek funds elsewhere, which may be more unattractive or unavailable. WE SOLD A CARD MANUFACTURING LICENSE UNDER WHICH WE WILL PROVIDE CERTAIN FACTORY SET-UP AND TRAINING SERVICES TO PREVENT OF SLOVENIA. IF WE AND PREVENT ARE SUCCESSFUL, THEY COULD COMPETE WITH US FOR BUSINESS. We will be obligated to deliver the contracted manufacturing equipment and installation support to Prevent for its to-be-built new card manufacturing facility in Slovenia, to provide a targeted initial manufacturing capacity of 10 million optical cards annually. We will also be assigning a person to be on site during the license term, if such option is elected by Prevent, to assist with quality, security, and operational procedures, with a mutual goal that the facility and the cards made in Slovenia conform to our standards. If cards are not produced in conformance with our quality standards, the reputation and marketability of optical memory card technology could be damaged. If the factory does not become operational and produce quality cards in high volume, or if Prevent is unable to raise sufficient capital to build, equip and operate this facility, we would not obtain the hoped-for benefits--including ongoing royalties, sales of raw materials to Prevent, and expansion of the European market. On the other hand, if and when the factory is successfully manufacturing the cards in high volume, it could compete against us for business in certain territories, which could reduce our potential card revenues if the market does not expand. Revenue on the contract will be recognized when the equipment has been accepted and training completed, which date is dependent in part on Prevent providing a facility in Slovenia. We could incur greater expenses than we anticipate for the purchase and installation of the required manufacturing equipment, thereby reducing cash and anticipated profits. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT, RETAIN OR INTEGRATE KEY PERSONNEL, WHICH MAY PREVENT US FROM SUCCEEDING. IN PARTICULAR, OUR CEO, RETIRED AFTER MORE THAN 25 YEARS OF SERVICE ON MARCH 31, 2008. OUR CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD HAS BEEN ACTING PART-TIME AS INTERIM CEO UNTIL WE COULD RECRUIT OUR NEW CEO WHO BEGINS WORK ON JUNE 2, 2008 AND WILL BECOME OUR CEO AFTER THIS FORM 10-K IS FILED. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO EFFECT A SMOOTH TRANSITION, OR IF OUR NEW CEO SHOULD UNEXPECTEDLY PROVE TO BE UNSUITED FOR OUR COMPANY, THE RESULTING DISRUPTION COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATIONS AND IMPEDE OUR ABILITY TO MAKE MAJOR DECISIONS. Our success will depend on the continued service of key management personnel. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or attract other qualified personnel in the future. The loss of services of any of the key members of our management team, including our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, the managing directors of our German operations, vice president of business development or our vice president of finance and CFO, and others or our failure to attract and retain other key personnel could disrupt operations and have a negative effect on employee productivity and morale, thus decreasing production and harming our financial results. In addition, the competition to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel is intense. We have just completed a nationwide recruiting search to replace our chief executive officer who retired on March 31, 2008, and in the interim our Chairman served part-time as CEO. We will now need to effect a transition to our new CEO and difficulties in effecting a smooth and timely transition could adversely impact our operations and impede our ability to make major decisions. While we believe our new CEO is well suited and qualified to run our business, should he prove otherwise, that could also adversely impact our operations and decision-making. OUR CALIFORNIA FACILITIES ARE LOCATED IN AN EARTHQUAKE ZONE AND THESE OPERATIONS COULD BE INTERRUPTED IN THE EVENT OF AN EARTHQUAKE, FIRE, OR OTHER DISASTER. Our card manufacturing, corporate headquarters, and drive assembly operations, administrative, and product development activities are located near major earthquake fault lines. In the event of a major earthquake, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, all of which could materially adversely affect us. Likewise, fires, floods, or other events could similarly disrupt our operations and interrupt our business. 23 FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales. We sell our products worldwide and therefore, our business could be subject to risks due to changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions. Differing tax laws and changes in those laws may also affect future results of our operations. PANDEMICS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The occurrence of a pandemic such as the Bird Flu coupled with the lack of government readiness and support in those countries where we do business could temporarily impede our revenue growth. ACTS OF TERRORISM OR WAR MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Acts of terrorism, acts of war, and other events may cause damage or disruption to our properties, business, employees, suppliers, distributors, resellers, and customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Such events may also result in an economic slowdown in the United States or elsewhere, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. AS A RESULT OF OUR REQUIRED ANNUAL EVALUATION OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WE MAY IDENTIFY INTERNAL CONTROL WEAKNESSES NEEDING REMEDIATION, WHICH COULD HARM OUR REPUTATION. We have completed the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2007. Although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of March 31, 2008 and 2007, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. Because of the inherent limitation of disclosure controls, no evaluation of such controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our Company have been detected. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, our reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, both of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income. BEGINNING WITH OUR FISCAL YEAR 2007, WE WERE REQUIRED TO RECORD COMPENSATION EXPENSE FOR STOCK OPTIONS, THEREBY REDUCING OUR EARNINGS. THIS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED ENTERPRISE VALUE AND TO OUR GRANTING FEWER OPTIONS WHICH COULD HURT OUR ABILITY TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN EMPLOYEES. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Financial Accounting Standard 123(R) (SFAS No. 123(R)) that requires the fair value of all equity-based awards granted to employees be recognized in the statement of operations as compensation expense, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, rather than just to disclose such expense in a footnote as we have done in the previous years. The adoption of this accounting standard reduced our profitability as measured by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) due to our outstanding options and our current intention to continue to grant options in the future as an incentive and retention tool for our employees. This may adversely affect our stock price. For example, during fiscal years 2008 and 2007, we recognized approximately $2.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively, of additional expenses due to SFAS No. 123(R) which we would not otherwise have recognized. Such adoption has also led us to reduce our use of stock options and to award restricted shares and restricted stock units. While all of these equity awards help align our employees’ long-term interests with increasing our enterprise value, options provide more of a reward if enterprise value substantially increases. Our reduced use of options could hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees and directors. 24 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 