Risk Factors” at the end of this section, and the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” contained in Item 7. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS The Company’s three reportable segments are: (1) optical memory cards, (2) optical memory card drives, including read/write drives, maintenance, and related accessories (“optical card drives”), and (3) specialty cards and printers. The segments were determined based on the information used by the chief operating decision maker. The optical memory cards and optical card drives reportable segments are not strategic business units which offer unrelated products and services; rather these reportable segments utilize compatible technology and are marketed jointly. Specialty cards and printers is a strategic business unit offering at times unrelated products and at times related products with the other reportable segments. See “Segment Reporting” in Note 4 in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional industry segment information. 6 NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS LaserCard Corporation develops, manufactures and sells optical memory cards, optical card drives, system software and card-related systems, and markets peripherals, specialty cards and card printers. The primary product of the Company is the LaserCard® optical memory card (OMC). LaserCard®; A Secure Counterfeit-resistant Credential The Company’s LaserCard® optical memory card is a secure, counterfeit-resistant credential whose current primary use is by national governments in identification applications. Digital data is recorded in an irreversible process so that ID information on a legitimate card cannot be fraudulently altered for criminal purposes. Each implementation for secure ID is customized to the issuer’s own specifications. Key characteristics of the card’s memory and the issuing and inspection hardware are matched. To date, the Company’s users have concluded that the hurdle for would-be card counterfeiters is so high that such persons instead would seek some other vulnerability points in the issuance process. Another security benefit of optical memory is its ability to create visible, high-resolution micro images and security patterns in the optical media itself at resolutions up to 12,000 dots per inch. These features, which cannot be accurately simulated, are used by inspectors and forensic specialists for both unaided and aided visual card authentication. It is also possible to create a “laser-etched,” eye visible image in the media, irreversibly marking the digital recording media with the visible identity of the card holder - a unique security feature among all machine readable card technologies. This method of permanently “etching” a facial image in the media has been in use since 1997 and was originally used to verify or back-up the authenticity of the printed or laser engraved facial images on the card’s surfaces. Following recent development efforts, the resolution and contrast of this etched image has been significantly enhanced. The newly released Embedded HologramHD™ features a larger, high-definition photographic quality image, so the feature itself can be used for ID verification, while still serving the back-up function. The feature is essentially impossible to copy or reproduce and cannot be altered thus providing a very high level of counterfeit resistance. Embedded HologramHD is a component of LaserCard’s unique document security package, known as Optical IDLock™, a highly sophisticated layering and blending of overt, covert and forensic security and identity management features. These features collectively make each card uniquely counterfeit resistant, tamper evident and permanently locked to the identity of the cardholder. No other technology can deliver this level of security tied to the individual cardholder’s identity. The Company's OpticalSmart™ Card offering combines the security and capacity of optical memory with the active transactional capability of IC chip. The chip can be any ISO 7816 series standard module and is embedded into the optical card base stock using traditional milling and embedding techniques. Typical applications for the OpticalSmart™ Card include the provision of e-government services via the chip and while the optical memory acts as a visual and automatic card authentication feature, backs up the chip in case of failure or tampering, and stores an audit trail of events in the card's life for security and forensic purposes. In addition, the optical memory can store a suite of original biometric images (for example, face, fingerprints and irises) to provide a means of ID verification across other government and private sector applications. Given that optical memory can be used securely off-line, it is not necessary to have access to Public Key Infrastructure, an extremely costly and complex system, at every transaction point thus enhancing the over-all cost-effectiveness of optical memory. The Company believes that the newly-introduced LaserPass™ is the most secure and flexible electronic ID solution available today. Combining the convenience and facilitation capabilities of RFID or contactless chip technology with the security and certain, automatic authentication of optical memory, the system can support a complete range of inspection and ID verification scenarios which can be set depending on perceived threat levels. For example, the combination of the technologies provides the following advantages: 7 · RFID provides convenient access within a facility after cardholder ID verification (one -to-one) with data stored on the optical memory · RFID can be used in high traffic environments as a “read ahead” data base pointer allowing data to be retrieved and queued awaiting inspection · Optical memory provides instant automatic card authentication, very rapid one-to-one biometric ID verification, and display of digital facial image and other ID data directly from the optical memory · Optical memory provides an attending inspector with unparalleled surety in visually verifying card, cardholder and displayed data · All RFID data is backed up on the optical media · Optical memory can be used when the network is down or slow · Optical memory can be used when the chip may have been compromised or there is suspicion about the cardholder’s match to the database image or tampering with the card’s printed personal data · Optical memory acts as forensic evidence in criminal prosecutions for tampering or counterfeiting of either the chip’s data or card personalized data LaserCard Government Applications The predominant present application is secure identity in government programs, covering both immigration and border entry along with citizenship. The counterfeit-resistant cards are typically replaced every five or ten years. The following are examples of these government applications: o The U.S. Permanent Resident Card (“Green Card”), made by the Company and issued by the Department of Homeland Security, evidences that a non-US citizen is approved to reside and be employed in the United States. o The Laser Visa Border Crossing Card, made by the Company and issued by the United States Department of State, permits Mexican citizens to visit the United States (close to the U.S. border) for up to 30 days. o The Canadian “Maple Leaf” Permanent Resident Card, made by the Company, has been issued by the Government of Canada since mid-2002 to confirm Canadian permanent resident status. o The electronic citizen ID card of Italy, identifies the holder as a citizen and confers upon the holder the rights and privileges to which a citizen is entitled. o The Italian electronic non-citizen resident permit card for non-EU citizens. o In a program for a Middle Eastern country, the LaserCard® is being issued as a national identification card. The Company has sold read/write drives, printers and application software for installation of the infrastructure required for card issuance, and to date has shipped about 500,000 optical memory cards. o A motor vehicle registration program in the States of Delhi and Gujarat, India, in which the OpticalSmart™ LaserCard® is used for storing the payment of road tax, vehicle registration, insurance, violations, and vehicle fitness. We have been informed that the two states have issued more than 600,000 such optical card-based registrations to date, and other Indian states have planned OpticalSmart™ card vehicle registration programs as well. Data Storage Capacity The gross data storage capacity of the standard LaserCard® is 4.1 megabytes on the 35mm optical stripe and 1.5 megabytes on the 16mm stripe. The LaserCard® itself is the size of a conventional credit card. 8 A portion of the LaserCard®’s total data capacity is used for an error detection and correction, or EDAC, algorithm. EDAC is routinely used in various data storage and transfer methods to compensate for data errors resulting from transmission errors, surface scratches above the recording material, or contamination such as dust or fingerprints. EDAC is automatically added to data written onto the LaserCard®, to achieve written data error rates of less than one in a trillion. The resulting data storage capacities are 2.86 megabytes of “user” capacity for the standard 4.1 megabyte LaserCard® and 1.1 megabytes of “user” capacity for the 1.5 megabyte LaserCard®. Durability Since 1993 more than 800,000 LaserCard® optical memory cards and approximately 2,000 LaserCard® OMC drives have been installed by the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency for use in shipping goods all over the world, often in the most hazardous environments. Environmental testing done by the U.S. Army showed high durability with the optical memory card, and has subsequently been validated by the worldwide Army deployments where the card has demonstrated its ability to withstand some of the harshest conditions and still work reliably in this mission-critical application. International Standards for Optical Memory Cards Standardization of optical memory cards allows interchange of the digital information encoded on the cards and facilitates compatibility among optical memory card systems. The Company participates in optical card standards activities in the United States and internationally. Shown below is the current status of optical memory card standards under ISO/IEC (the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Committee). The LaserCard® optical memory card system, complies with all of the documents listed. o ISO/IEC 11693 describes the general characteristics of optical memory cards. This international standard was first published in 1994. o ISO/IEC 11694-1 describes the physical characteristics of the card, such as height, width, thickness, etc. This international standard was first published in 1994. o ISO/IEC 11694-2 describes the dimensions and location of the accessible area—the area on the card where data writing/reading occurs. This international standard was first published in 1995. o ISO/IEC 11694-3 describes the optical properties and characteristics of the card and provides the technical specifications which allow interchange. This international standard was published in 1995. o ISO/IEC 11694-4 describes the logical data structure on the card and defines the method of writing and reading card data. This international standard was published in 1996. In the United States, ANSI (the American National Standards Institute) has adopted all of the above ISO Standards as ANSI/ISO Standards. Other standards defining the use of optical memory cards in certain application areas, such as driver’s license and interoperable ID documents, also exist. 9 LaserCard® Manufacturing The Company’s LaserCard® optical memory card manufacturing operations are located in Mountain View, California, and Rastede, Germany. The Company produces optical memory cards using a roll-lamination process or a newer sheet-lamination process. The sheet-lamination process is currently more labor intensive than the roll-lamination process but allows the use of high security offset printing and other special features, resulting in a premium card. The Company has an annual production capacity of 10 million roll-process cards in conjunction with approximately 8 million sheet-process cards depending upon the optimum mix of features. The March 31, 2004 acquisition of Challenge Card Design Plastikkarten GmbH (“CCD”) of Rastede, Germany, provides the Company with a card manufacturing base to serve the European, Middle Eastern, African, and Asian markets, supplementing the Company’s card manufacturing operations in California. CCD has a manufacturing capacity of up to 20 million non-optical specialty cards per year. CCD also provides optical memory card manufacturing capacity for some interim steps of the sheet manufacturing process. The Company may enhance the existing CCD factory to manufacture finished optical card blanks in Germany if and when European customer orders justify such capacity expansion and such European expansion is determined to be cost effective. This would enable CCD to manufacture cards featuring four of the key ID card technologies (optical memory, contact IC chip, contactless RFID, and magnetic stripe) either singly or in combination, along with other high-security features. Raw Materials To maintain adequate raw material supplies for the manufacture of optical memory cards, the Company establishes ongoing relationships with principal qualified suppliers, and when commercially reasonable utilizes multiple suppliers, and obtains information about alternate suppliers. The Company maintains raw materials inventory levels that take into account current expected demand, order-to-delivery lead times, supplier production cycles, and minimum order quantities. If the Company is unable to buy raw materials in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, it would not be able to deliver products to customers on time. Most of the raw materials used in the manufacture of optical memory cards are available from one or more qualified suppliers. Such materials include plastic films used in optical memory card production, which are available from one supplier in the U.S. and from multiple foreign suppliers. Processing chemicals, inks, and bonding adhesives are obtained from various U.S. and foreign suppliers. However, certain photographic films are commercially available solely from Eastman Kodak Company, of the United States. No assurance can be given that Kodak will continue to supply such photographic films on a satisfactory basis and in sufficient quantities. If Kodak were to discontinue manufacturing the film from which our optical media is made, we would endeavor to establish an alternate supplier for such film, although the purchase price could increase and reliability and quality could decrease from a new supplier. No assurance can be given that there will be adequate demand to attract a second source. In addition, an alternate supplier could encounter technical issues in producing the film as there may be know-how and manufacturing expertise which Kodak has developed over the years which an alternate supplier may have difficulty to replicate. We have pre-purchased a long-term supply of the film used to produce mastering loops for prerecording cards. With regard to the film from which our optical media is made, we currently have an order which Kodak has accepted with deliveries scheduled through October 2006. If Kodak announced that it was no longer going to sell film, we would request that Kodak provide us with a last-buy opportunity which we would plan to take maximum advantage of, although no assurance can be given that Kodak would provide us with such an opportunity. We have film on hand plus on order that we believe would provide us with an adequate supply to meet anticipated demand until we could locate and begin volume purchases from a second source. In addition, the Company is researching other materials for use as its optical memory card media. LaserCard Read/Write Drives; Manufacturing and Parts/Components Optical memory cards are used in conjunction with a card read/write device (drive) that connects to a personal computer. The price, performance, and availability of read/write drives are factors in the commercialization of optical cards. The Company maintains read/write drive manufacturing operations in its Mountain View, California facilities. The Company continuously seeks design and procurement changes to improve performance and reduce the drive selling price although much higher volumes would be required to significantly reduce the price further. 10 To maintain adequacy of parts and components for the manufacture of read/write drives, the Company attempts to establish ongoing relationships with principal suppliers and obtains information about alternate suppliers. If the Company is unable to buy parts and components in sufficient quantities and on a timely basis, it would not be able to deliver products to customers on time. The Company purchases read/write drive parts for its anticipated read/write drive demand, taking into consideration the order-to-delivery lead times of vendors and the economic purchase order quantity for such parts. For read/write drives, the optical recording head for the current drive is a Company-specific part obtained from one supplier: Audio-Technica Corp., of Japan. Application Programming Interface (APIs) and Application Software APIs. As part of its read/write drive and system sales, LaserCard includes a comprehensive set of APIs in order for its customers to develop optical card applications. An API is a set of routines, protocols, and tools used by programmers for building software applications. LaserCard-related APIs control or facilitate the basic operations and read/write functions of optical memory card drives so that they can interface directly with personal computers. LaserCard develops LaserCard-related APIs such as device drivers, file system DLLs (dynamic link libraries), and custom software tools to enhance read/write drive integration. Custom Applications. The Company also offers contract services for purchase by customers that require custom programming in the development and integration of their LaserCard® applications. It also makes available for purchase by customers, software for demonstrating data storage, medical, and security concepts involving the LaserCard®, software-development tools for related peripherals, and a card issuance application software package. Application software. End-user application software is an important factor in developing commercial markets for optical memory cards because it directs computers to do specific tasks related to the customer's end-user application for the LaserCard®. Typically, the Company’s value-added resellers (VARs) and/or their customers develop software for specific end-user applications. In this role, VARs may integrate optical card products into existing software products, write new application software for specific optical memory card programs, or license software from other VARs. Several VARs have written optical card software programs for applications. The Company markets the BadgeMaker card personalization and issuing applications used for card issuance and data management; and the LaserBadge™ derivative of BadgeMaker, and a Biometric ID Verification System application. API and application software sales have not been a significant portion of revenues thus far. To date, the Company’s software development has been completed concurrent with the establishment of technological feasibility and, accordingly, all software development costs have been charged to research and engineering expense in the accompanying statements of operations. LaserCard Biometric ID Verification System The Company has developed a LaserCard Biometric ID Verification System that can quickly confirm validity of optical memory card biometric ID cards sold to the U.S. Government, read and display digitally stored photographs and other digital data from the cards, and biometrically verify the cardholders’ live-scanned fingerprints with the fingerprint templates stored on the cards at time of card issuance. The Company also is marketing the LaserCard Biometric ID Verification System as a "concept" package, meaning that software which performs the same functions (but not usable with U.S. government cards) is available in customized form to other customers for government, industrial, and commercial applications. Other Advanced-Technology Cards Acquired by the Company on March 31, 2004, Challenge Card Design Plastikkarten GmbH is a recognized leader in Europe as a provider of advanced contactless card solutions, primarily in the consumer, event, and access control sectors including gate systems for sporting events and student ID cards for German universities. CCD has the production capacity to manufacture up to 20 million advanced-technology specialty cards per year—including contact IC chip cards, contactless RFID cards, and magnetic stripe cards—and markets cards, thermal card printers, and system solutions worldwide under the cards & more brand. The CCD card manufacturing plant in Rastede provides significant capacity and product flexibility to the Company’s product line. With expertise in contactless IC technology and high resolution security printing, the European factory positions the Company to move into new market areas. 11 Sales and Marketing The Company markets its OMC products, primarily through value-added resellers (VARs) of the Company in the United States and other countries. The Company makes available for sale optical memory cards, optical card read/write drives and software, and third-party peripherals to its VARs. VARs may add value in the form of services, application-specific software, personal computers, or other peripherals, and then resell these products as integrated systems. Sales to the United States government and foreign governments are made indirectly through VARs and licensees. For example, products are sold indirectly to ultimate use customers such as the U.S. Department of State, U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and the government of Canada, through a VAR that is a government subcontractor. Revenues by geographic region are shown in Note 4 of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Substantially all foreign product sales have been made through VARs and licensees. The Company believes that international markets will be an important source of product sales and license revenue in the future. LaserCard® sales and marketing operations are conducted through its offices in California, New York, Washington, D.C. area, and Germany. In addition, the LaserCard Corporation website (www.lasercard.com) supports worldwide marketing activities. The Company’s marketing and sales staff, general management, and technical personnel work closely with customers and provide pre-sales technical support to assist VARs and licensees. European Operations. The Company’s German subsidiary, Challenge Card Design Plastikkarten GmbH (“CCD”) provides the marketing base for most of Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA). CCD gives the Company an established position in the European Union in the advanced-technology card market. CCD is a recognized leader in Europe as a provider of advanced contactless card solutions, primarily in the consumer, event, and access control sectors under the cards & more brand. CCD heads the Company’s European marketing effort in coordination with LaserCard Corporation. The Company believes that the European marketing base, along with the optical card manufacturing capability in Germany, will accelerate European acceptance of the use of optical memory products in EU government and business solutions. CCD serves and supports its existing customer base for advanced-technology specialty cards and thermal printers, while adding new resources to build the optical memory card business throughout the EMEA region. The Company intends to focus principally on biometric ID solutions for national and regional governments in this region, as well as promoting optical cards in commercial and industrial markets which can benefit from the large data capacity and robust security that optical cards offer. Marketing Objectives: The Company’s principal objectives are to: · Maintain, leverage and expand further the existing optical memory card user community of national and regional governments · Broaden the optical memory-based range to address lower end applications characterized by higher price sensitivity · Diversify optical memory products into, and effectively penetrate, industrial and commercial markets · Expand hardware product offerings to address new markets and add value to the current offering · Increase revenues by selling more application software and integrated solutions, such as data capture, personalization, quality assurance and kiosk systems · Maintain and, where possible, increase market share for specialized cards and printer products Licensing The Company sold a license, effective April 3, 2004, to Global Investments Group (GIG), based in Auckland, New Zealand, for card manufacturing in Slovenia. This agreement provides for payments to the Company of $14 million for a 20-year license and five-year training support package, followed by $15 million paid $1 million annually for ongoing support for an additional 15 years. Additionally, the Company is to sell approximately $12 million worth of the required manufacturing equipment and installation support for the new facility to be built by GIG to provide a 12 targeted initial manufacturing capacity of 10 million optical cards annually. As of March 31, 2006, the Company had acquired $5.9 million of this equipment classified as equipment held for resale on its consolidated balance sheet. The Company has received $20.5 million of payments called for in the agreements, consisting of a partial payment for the equipment and training of $6.5 million and $14 million for the license fee and support. Another approximately $5.9 million is overdue with GIG most recently committing to complete the payment by the end of June. The Company has begun to investigate alternative courses of action should GIG fail to make such payment. For the $20.5 million the Company received, $18.5 million was recorded as advance payments from customer and $2 million for the licensing fee was recorded as deferred revenue, which were both classified as long term liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets. In addition to the $41 million discussed above, GIG is to pay the Company royalties for each card produced under the license. The territories covered by the license include most of the European Union and eastern European regions. GIG has exclusive marketing rights in certain territories, with performance goals to maintain these rights. The Company will assign a person on site during the license term to assist with quality, security and operational procedures, with the mutual goal that the facility and the cards made in the facility conform to the Company’s standards. The Company also retains rights to utilize up to 20% of the new facility capacity as backup and capacity buffer to augment its own card manufacturing facilities in Mountain View, California and at its German subsidiary. The granting of this license to GIG establishes a potential second source supplier of optical memory cards for existing and prospective customers who may request multiple sources for cards. Also from time to time, the Company has offered nonexclusive, royalty bearing licenses for optical card read/write drive manufacture, for assembly of read/write drives from kits, for optical card finishing using Company-supplied materials, and for card manufacturing. In the past, the Company also offered card distribution licenses to create distributors, in selected regions of the world that can buy cards wholesale from the Company at prices lower than those charged to VARs. During the past five years, there have been no material purchases of optical memory cards by the licensees. The Company conducts its licensing efforts on a selective basis. The timing, number, type, and magnitude of future license sales, if any, cannot be predicted or inferred from past events. There is no assurance that any of the Company's licensing efforts will be successful. There were no license revenues for fiscal years 2006, 2005, or 2004. Competition The Company’s primary competition is other card products. Competitive factors among the various card technologies include interoperability, per issued card system cost, standards compliance, installed base of compatible equipment, durability, environmental tolerance, card security, and potential for open competitive bidding. The Company believes its optical memory cards offer key technological and security advantages. The current price of optical card read/write drives is a competitive disadvantage to the Company in some markets because alternative technologies typically have lower priced drives. However, when the cost of drives and a large number of cards is factored together, the Company’s optical memory card technology can offer competitive pricing compared with its closest competitor, high capacity integrated circuit (IC) cards, especially when the very high cost of Public Key encryption and networks is factored into the cost of an IC card system. There are companies known to the Company, and there may be other companies unknown to the Company, which are working on optical memory and optical memory card products which could compete with the Company if commercialized. Other card technologies that compete with optical memory cards include IC cards, 2-dimensional bar code cards and symbology cards, optical CD or DVD-read only cards and recordable cards, holographic data storage cards, and RFID cards. The financial and marketing resources of some of the competing companies are greater than the Company’s resources. The Company believes that the LaserCard®'s storage capacity, read/write capability, price-performance ratio, rugged card construction and flexibility, optional technology add-ons, ability to store audit trails, and resistance to counterfeiting and tampering make the LaserCard® optical memory card a viable choice for a variety of digital card applications. In addition, centralized on-line databases combined with wide-area networks may limit the penetration of optical memory cards in certain applications, and are a form of competition. Smart Cards. The LaserCard® competes primarily with cards that contain an IC microprocessor and memory. Known as "smart cards," or "chip cards," their prices and performance vary widely. The smart card uses a much lower 13 cost read/write unit than is currently used with an optical card, whereas a typical smart card containing a 64-kilobyte IC and a microprocessor is typically more than the cost of the Company’s 2.8 megabyte optical memory card. The IC card is more vulnerable to tampering and can be more easily damaged in everyday use, whereas the Company's card construction and the use of polycarbonate plastic make the LaserCard® more rugged. Companies that manufacture IC cards of various types and storage capacities include Gemplus, Axalto, Sharp, Orga Card Systems, Oberthur Card Systems, many of which are substantially larger and have more resources than the Company Contactless Chips. Sometimes referred to as “RFID”, this technology has a predominant background in transit fare token applications and facility access. It has recently attracted a lot of attention for identity verification and border inspection applications and has been seen as competition to optical memory card in these markets. Contactless chips exhibit the same characteristics as the contact chips used on smart cards - limited memory, volatile storage and a relative lack of durability. However, the technology has proven itself effective in certain markets, such as access control. One limitation of the typical contactless access control card is that there is no control on who is carrying the card. Thus, the system will grant access to anyone who finds or steals a genuine card. The Company believes that there are often no absolutes in comparing one card technology with another. Rather, each technology will either stand on its own merits when viewed against specific application requirements or a hybrid combination of technologies will deliver the “best of all worlds” solution. Currently, only the Company offers a hybrid card embodying the optical memory technology of the LaserCard® with an embedded IC or RFID chip in the Company’s OpticalSmartTM card and LaserPassTM products, respectively. Other Card Products. Read-only memory cards such as 2-dimensional bar code cards and symbology cards are lower priced and compete with the Company's read/write optical memory cards for certain markets, such as identification cards. However, the Company's cards have significantly higher storage capacity and offer unique security features to deter counterfeiting and data tampering. Two-dimensional bar codes on cards and other symbology cards store relatively small amounts of data compared to the LaserCard® and are not recordable/updatable after they are issued. Moreover, alternative technologies—such as IC chips, radio frequency (RF) circuitry, and bar codes/symbology—can be incorporated into the Company's optical memory cards, thereby adding additional performance features to the LaserCard®. Experimental card technologies probably are under development at other companies. Other Optical Memory Cards and Equipment. The Company previously licensed its card patents to two Japanese companies, Canon Inc. and Dai Nippon Printing, which the Company believes are not manufacturing or selling such cards at this time. In addition, as described in the “Licensing” section, in April 2004, the Company sold a card-manufacturing license to Global Investments Group for the manufacture of optical memory cards in Slovenia. Under these royalty-bearing licenses, the licensees have the right to manufacture and sell optical memory cards in competition with the LaserCard®. The newly licensed Slovenian operation under the Global Investments Group license is not yet capable of manufacturing optical cards, but is expected to become a second-source for the Company’s cards over time. Global Investments Group could become a competitor in certain Western European countries; however, exclusivity provisions of the license preclude competition in certain markets. For example, the Company is prohibited from competing in certain Eastern European countries, and Global Investments Group is prohibited from competing outside European countries. Recordable CD and DVD optical media are currently made in card shaped form factors that function with standard CD and DVD players. These cards have high-data capacity, storing hundreds of megabytes of data, and have high data transfer rates. The typical purchase price is less than $1.00 each for a blank card. The cards are typically 1.2-millimeter thick and therefore they do not meet the ISO Standards for either credit cards or ID-1 identification cards. These cards typically serve other markets such as advertising and promotional applications. Other Matters Research and Engineering Expenses Research and engineering expenses were $2.3 million for fiscal year 2006; $3 million for fiscal year 2005; and $2.6 million for fiscal year 2004. The Company is continuing its efforts to develop new optical memory card features, 14 including the insertion of contactless chips with radio frequency (RF) capability, optical memory card media, optical memory card read/write drives, read-only drives (readers), OptiChip small form factor optical media, OpticalProximityTM systems, card personalization systems, and software products in an effort to strengthen its existing products and provide new products that can stimulate optical memory card sales growth. For example, the Company has developed an Optical/RFID and Optical/Proximity card and system (“LaserPass™”) to compete in the rapidly growing RFID marketplace. The Company anticipates that these ongoing research and engineering efforts will result in new or enhanced card capabilities, production-model read-only drives, or drives with advanced security features and lower manufacturing costs; however, there is no assurance that such product development efforts will be successful. These factors are important for the Company’s existing and future optical memory card markets. Also see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis.” Patents and Trademarks Optical Data Storage. As of March 31, 2006, the Company owned approximately 29 U.S. patents relating to optical data storage (including optical storage media, optical cards, formats, equipment, systems, software, the utilization of optical storage media, and e-commerce technology), and other U.S. and foreign patent applications have been filed. Approximately 18 counterpart patents of certain U.S. patents are issued in various foreign countries. However, the Company owns certain U.S. patents as to which foreign counterparts have either not been filed or the examination process has been terminated without issuance of the foreign patents. From time to time, the Company elects to allow some of its U.S. or foreign patents to expire when maintenance fees become due, if the patents are deemed no longer relevant. In addition, the Company protects as trade secrets some refinements to the optical media and cards and know-how related to card production. Also, the Company’s know-how and experience in volume card production, system development and software capabilities, brand-name recognition within its card markets, and dominant-supplier status for optical-memory cards are of far greater importance than the Company’s patents. Therefore, at this time, the Company believes that its patent portfolio is helpful but is no longer materially meaningful for maintaining the LaserCard®’s market position. The Company's U.S. patents have expiration dates ranging from 2006 to 2022, with the majority expiring during the first part of this period. Counterpart patents in foreign countries also expire during this period, usually about two to three years after the U.S. patent expires. The Company cannot predict whether the expiration or invalidation of its patents would result in the introduction of competitive products which would affect its future revenues adversely. The Company presently intends to pursue any infringement of its patents either by litigation, arbitration, or negotiation. However, there can be no assurance that any of the Company's patents will be sufficiently broad in scope to afford protection from products with comparable characteristics that may be sold by competitors in the future. There also can be no assurance that the validity of any patents actually granted will not be challenged. LaserCard® and Drexon® are federally registered trademarks of LaserCard Corporation. The Company believes that its LaserCard® brand name, trade name, and other trademarks are important assets in marketing optical memory card products. Employees As of March 31, 2006, the Company and its U.S. subsidiary employed 164 persons (including four executive officers). This workforce consisted of 112 persons in administration, marketing/sales, manufacturing, and research and engineering, plus 52 temporary personnel mainly engaged in manufacturing and the inspection of cards for quality assurance. In addition, the German subsidiary acquired by the Company on March 31, 2004 employed 97 people as of March 31, 2006. The German workforce consisted of 87 persons in administration, marketing/sales, manufacturing, and research and engineering, plus 10 temporary personnel mainly engaged in manufacturing and the inspection of cards for quality assurance. None of the Company's employees is represented by a labor union. Dependence on Government Subcontracts through Sole Contractors The largest purchaser of LaserCard products is a government prime contractor, Anteon International Corporation, a value-added reseller (VAR) of the Company. Anteon is the government contractor for LaserCard® product sales to 15 the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Department of State (DOS), U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), and the government of Canada. Under government contracts with Anteon, the DHS purchases U.S. Permanent Resident Cards (Green Cards) and DOS Laser Visa Border Crossing Cards (BCCs); the DOD purchases Automated Manifest System cards; and the Canadian government purchases Permanent Resident Cards. Encompassing all of these programs, the Company’s product sales to Anteon represented 31% of total revenues for fiscal year 2006; 31% of total revenues for fiscal year 2005; and 72% of total revenues for fiscal year 2004. The proportion of revenues represented by Anteon decreased in fiscal year 2005 as compared to fiscal year 2004, and is anticipated to decrease in the future as the Company generates increased revenues from other sources. Since the ultimate customers are national governments, the Company is not dependent upon any one specific contractor for continued revenues from these programs. Although not anticipated, if Anteon were to discontinue its participation as contractor, other qualified contractors could be utilized by those governments for purchasing our products, although the process of doing so could cause program delays. Sales of DHS Green Cards and DOS Laser Visa BCCs represented approximately 24% of the Company’s revenue for fiscal year 2006; 21% of revenues for fiscal year 2005; and 44% of revenues for fiscal year 2004. The percentage declined during fiscal year 2005 as revenues from other sources increased and the Company included the results of the German acquisitions for the first time in fiscal year 2005. The Company is currently delivering on orders placed prior to the expiration of a U.S. government subcontract in November 2005. Backlog at March 31, 2006 for these programs, which is deliverable through August 2006, totaled $3.7 million. The Company expects that the U.S. government will issue a new contract or place a purchase order prior to the last shipment under orders on hand although no assurance can be given. The Company’s revenues derived from sales to the government of Italy for its national ID card program, Carta d’Identità Elettronica (CIE), accounted for 18% of revenues for fiscal year 2006, 26% of revenues for fiscal year 2005, and 22% of revenues for fiscal year 2004. Revenues on Italian Permesso di Soggiorno Elettronico (PSE) cards accounted for 13% of Company revenues in fiscal year 2006. Card orders under these programs are placed with the Company through a value-added reseller, Laser Memory Card SPA of Italy. The Italian government successfully concluded the experimental phase of National ID CIE program using LaserCard® optical memory cards and enacted a law to replace paper ID documents with electronic documents starting January 2006. LaserCard®’s optical memory stripe is contained in CIE national ID cards and new PSE foreign worker cards. If these programs were to be discontinued or interrupted by the Italian government, the Company would lose one of its significant sources of optical memory card revenues. Backlog As of March 31, 2006, the backlog for LaserCard® optical memory cards totaled $8.3 million scheduled for delivery in fiscal year 2007, compared with $0.9 million at March 31, 2005, and $4.1 million at March 31, 2004. In addition, backlog for a bundled order of optical memory cards, read/write drives, card printers, and software totaled $1.4 million at March 31, 2006. The Company has only a few customers who generally place orders for a several-month period so that variations in order placement from a single customer can materially affect backlog. As a result, the relative size of our backlog has not been a reliable indicator of future sales revenue trends. The Company has no significant backlog for read/write drives. In addition, the backlog for Challenge Card Design Plastikkarten GmbH as of March 31, 2006 for specialty cards and printers totaled 0.8 million euros (approximately $1.0 million) compared with 1.2 million euros (approximately $1.6 million) at March 31, 2005, and for a contract to develop a conventional non-optical card production facility totaled 0.7 million euros (approximately $0.8 million) at March 31, 2006 compared with 0.8 million euros (approximately $1 million) at March 31, 2005. Revenue on the contract for a conventional non-optical card production facility contract is being booked on a zero profit margin basis. Therefore, the total profit under this contract will be booked at completion probably during fiscal year 2008. Financial Information About Geographic Areas Financial information about geographic areas is described in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 16 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE EXPECTED REVENUES ARE DERIVED FROM A SMALL NUMBER OF ULTIMATE CUSTOMERS SO THAT THE LOSS OF OR REDUCTIONS IN PURCHASES BY ANY ONE ULTIMATE CUSTOMER COULD MATERIALLY REDUCE OUR REVENUES AND LEAD TO LOSSES. During fiscal year 2006 and each of the previous two fiscal years, we have derived more than 60% of our optical memory card and drive-related revenues from five programs ― two U.S. government programs and three foreign government programs. Due to the lengthy sales cycles, we believe that these programs, with perhaps the addition of one or two other foreign programs, will be the basis for a substantial majority of our revenues in the near-term. The loss of or reductions in purchases by any one customer due to program cutbacks, competition, or other reasons would materially reduce our revenue base. Annual or quarterly losses occur when there are material reductions, gaps or delays in card orders from our largest U.S. or foreign government programs or if such programs were to be reduced in scope, delayed, canceled, or not extended and not replaced by other card orders or other sources of income. PRIOR TO THE QUARTER ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005 WE INCURRED NET LOSSES DURING THE PREVIOUS ELEVEN QUARTERS AND MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT REVENUE IN THE FUTURE TO SUSTAIN PROFITABILITY. Although we generated $3.1 million of profit during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2006, we incurred losses during the first two quarters of fiscal year 2006 aggregating $2.3 million, and we incurred a loss of $8.9 million in fiscal year 2005 and $12.4 million in fiscal year 2004, and had an accumulated deficit of $26 million at March 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that we will generate enough card revenues in the near term to maintain profitability. We are relying upon our optical memory card technology to generate future product revenues, earnings, and cash flows. If alternative technologies emerge or if we are otherwise unable to compete, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Annual or quarterly losses would also continue if increases in product revenues or license revenues do not keep pace with increased selling, general, administrative, research and engineering expenses and the depreciation and amortization expenses associated with capital expenditures. OUR PROGRAM WITH ITALY, WHICH WE BELIEVE WILL BE OUR LARGEST CUSTOMER FOR THE NEXT FEW YEARS, MAY BE DELAYED OR CANCELLED FOR REASONS OUTSIDE OUR CONTROL WHICH WOULD CAUSE US TO HAVE LESS REVENUE THAN PLANNED AND WOULD LIKELY LEAD US TO INCUR OPERATING LOSSES. The Company believes that the Italian CIE and PSE card programs will be our largest customer for the next few years, comprising a significant portion of future revenues. Sales of cards and drives for the government of Italy for its CIE and PSE card programs represented 31% of total revenue for fiscal year 2006, 26% for fiscal year 2005, and 22% for fiscal year 2004, while the current backlog for CIE and PSE cards amounts to about one-quarter of total optical memory card backlog. We are increasing capacity to meet the anticipated demand. However, there can be no assurance that demand will increase as anticipated by the Company. We would most likely incur losses if Phase 3 of this program, which is full implementation, was to be delayed, canceled, not extended, or not implemented at the level foreseen or if the government were to change its technology decision and no longer use optical memory cards. While during Phase 2, selected Italian cities have been issuing cards and testing the card issuing process, full implementation in Phase 3 is dependent upon card issuance infrastructure developments being successfully undertaken and the national ID card system functioning as designed, of which there can be no assurance. Also, if Laser Memory Card SPA of Italy, our VAR customer for this program, were to discontinue participation in this program or discontinue operations, interruptions could occur in orders or shipments for this program until a replacement could be found. Overcoming some of these issues may be difficult and complex and involve third parties, which could be time consuming and expensive and lead to delays for implementation of Phase 3. OUR CONTRACT WITH THE U.S. GOVERNMENT, ONE OF OUR TWO LARGEST ULTIMATE CUSTOMERS, EXPIRED IN NOVEMBER 2005 AND IF NOT RENEWED COULD RESULT IN ORDER DELAYS WHICH WOULD LIKELY LEAD US TO INCUR OPERATING LOSSES. EVEN IF A NEW CONTRACT IS ISSUED, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS THE RIGHT TO DELAY ITS ORDERS OR COULD CHANGE ITS TECHNOLOGY DECISIONS, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN ORDER DELAYS AND POSSIBLY IN OPERATING LOSSES. Our fiscal year 2006 revenues included sales of approximately $9.8 million of Green Cards and Laser Visa BCCs, and comprised 24% of our revenues. The Company expects these revenues to continue at approximately $9.5 million annually ($7.5 million for Green Cards and $2.0 million for Laser Visa BCCs) if the government continues to use the Company’s cards in these programs, continues to personalize cards at that rate and continues to maintain an inventory level equal to six-months of usage. However, our U.S. government subcontract 17 expired in November 2005. While we have backlog as of March 31, 2006, for $3.7 million in optical memory cards deliverable through August 2006, further orders will require a new contract or a purchase order. Based on events to date, the Company believes that a follow-on contract or purchase order will be issued prior to the completion of deliveries from backlog; however, there is no assurance that a follow-on contract or purchase order will be issued by the U.S. government. Under U.S. government procurement regulations, even with a contract or purchase order in place, the government reserves certain rights, such as the right to withhold releases, to reduce the quantities released, extend delivery dates, reduce the rate at which cards are issued, and cancel all or part of its unfulfilled purchase orders. We would most likely incur losses if both of our largest U.S. government programs were to be delayed, canceled, or not extended or if the government were to change its technology decision and no longer use optical memory cards. The U.S. government acting through its prime contractor delayed orders for Green Cards during fiscal year 2004 due to a design change and again in the first part of fiscal year 2005 because of excess inventory, which resulted in a gap in production of several months, and which in turn significantly and adversely affected our operating results for the first half of fiscal year 2005. Any future excess inventory held by the U.S. government, delayed funding, slower than anticipated program volume, or any future changes to the design of the cards may result in future gaps in orders or production which may negatively impact our operating results. Our U.S. government card deliveries depend upon the issuance of corresponding order releases by the government to its prime contractor and then to us. If Anteon International Corporation, our VAR customer and the U.S. government prime contractor for this program, were to discontinue participation in this program or discontinue operations, interruptions could occur in orders or shipments for this program until a replacement could be found. OUR PRODUCT REVENUES WILL NOT GROW IF WE DO NOT WIN NEW BUSINESS IN THE U.S. OR ABROAD AND IF THE ITALIAN NATIONAL ID PROGRAM IS NOT IMPLEMENTED AS ANTICIPATED. Even if our U.S. Government subcontract is renewed, we do not expect future growth from the U.S. Green Card and Laser Visa BCC programs as we expect their steady state revenue to average $9.5 million annually, about the same as purchased in fiscal year 2006. We expect our revenues from Italian CIE and PSE cards to be between $20 million and $30 million for fiscal year 2007, compared with about $12 million during fiscal year 2006. During full implementation, we expect our revenues from these programs to grow to reach approximately $40 million per year. In order for us to achieve our overall revenue growth goal, we will need not only for these programs to continue and reach their anticipated levels, of which there can be no assurance, but we will also need to win new business in the U.S. and abroad. Emerging optical memory card programs or prospective applications include motor vehicle registration cards in a few states in India, foreign resident identification cards in Costa Rica, and national ID cards for a Middle Eastern country. There can be no assurance that sizable orders will follow or even if ordered we will be successful in shipping products for any of these programs, nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to win any other new business in the U.S. or abroad which is necessary to grow our business to the level we desire. SINCE THE SALES CYCLE FOR OUR PRODUCTS IS TYPICALLY LONG AND UNPREDICTABLE, WE HAVE DIFFICULTY PREDICTING WHEN NEW BUSINESS WILL CONTRIBUTE TO REVENUE GROWTH. Obtaining substantial orders usually involves a lengthy sales cycle, requiring marketing and technical time and expense with no guarantee that substantial orders will result. This long sales cycle results in uncertainties in predicting operating results, particularly on a quarterly basis. In addition, since our major marketing programs involve the U.S. government and various foreign governments and quasi-governmental organizations, additional uncertainties and extended sales cycles can result. Factors which increase the length of the sales cycle include government regulations, bidding procedures, budget cycles, and other government procurement procedures, as well as changes in governmental policy-making. THE TIMING OF OUR U.S. GOVERNMENT REVENUES COULD BE EXTREMELY VOLATILE AND CANNOT BE PREDICTED BECAUSE WE REQUIRE A FIXED SHIPMENT SCHEDULE IN ORDER TO RECORD REVENUE WHEN WE DELIVER CARDS TO A VAULT, OTHERWISE WE RECOGNIZE REVENUE WHEN THE CARDS ARE SHIPPED OUT OF A VAULT OR WE RECEIVE A FIXED SHIPMENT SCHEDULE FROM THE GOVERNMENT. We recognize revenue from product sales when the following criteria are met: (a) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (b) delivery has occurred; (c) the fee is fixed or determinable; and (d) collectibility is reasonably assured. Our U.S. government subcontract requires delivery of cards to a secure vault built on our premises. Deliveries are made into the vault on a production schedule specified by the government or one of its specified agents. When the cards are delivered to the vault, all title and risk of ownership are transferred to the government. At the time of delivery, the prime contractor is invoiced, with payment due within thirty days. The contract does not provide for any return provisions other than for warranty. We recognize revenue when the cards are 18 delivered into the vault because we have fulfilled our contractual obligations and the earnings process is complete. However, if we do not receive a shipment schedule for shipment from the vault, revenue is not recognized until the cards are shipped from the vault. In addition, revenue recognition for future deliveries into the vault would be affected if the U.S. government cancels the shipment schedule. As a result, our revenues may fluctuate from period to period if we do not continue to obtain shipment schedules under this subcontract or if the shipment schedules are cancelled. In this case, we would no longer recognize revenue when cards are delivered to the vault, but instead such revenue recognition would be delayed until the cards are shipped from the vault to the U.S. government. WE COULD EXPERIENCE EQUIPMENT, RAW MATERIAL, QUALITY CONTROL, OR OTHER PRODUCTION PROBLEMS ESPECIALLY IN PERIODS OF INCREASING VOLUME. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet our projected card manufacturing capacity if and when customer orders reach higher levels. We have made and intend to continue to make significant capital expenditures to expand our card manufacturing capacity. For example, we plan $9 million of capital expenditures during the next twelve months. However, since customer demand is difficult to predict, we may be unable to ramp up our production quickly enough to timely fill new customer orders. This could cause us to lose new business and possibly existing business. In addition, if we overestimate customer demand, we could incur significant costs from creating excess capacity which was the case during fiscal year 2005. We may experience manufacturing complications associated with increasing our manufacturing capacity of cards and drives, including the adequate production capacity for sheet-lamination process cards to meet order requirements and delivery schedules. We may also experience difficulties implementing new manufacturing processes, meeting customers’ quality or standards requirements, or outsourcing some of our manufacturing. The addition of fixed overhead costs increases our breakeven point and results in lower profit margins unless compensated for by increased product sales. When purchasing raw materials for our anticipated optical card demand, we take into consideration the order-to-delivery lead times of vendors and the economic purchase order quantity for such raw materials. If we over-estimate customer demand, excess raw material inventory can result. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO BUY RAW MATERIALS IN SUFFICIENT QUANTITIES AND ON A TIMELY BASIS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO DELIVER PRODUCTS TO CUSTOMERS ON TIME WHICH COULD CAUSE US TO LOSE CUSTOMERS, AND OUR REVENUES COULD DECLINE. We depend on sole source and limited source suppliers for optical card raw materials. Such materials include plastic films used in optical memory card production, which are available from one supplier in the U.S. and from multiple foreign suppliers. Processing chemicals, inks, and bonding adhesives are obtained from various U.S. and foreign suppliers. Certain photographic films are commercially available solely from Eastman Kodak Company, of the United States. No assurance can be given that Kodak will continue to supply such photographic films on a satisfactory basis and in sufficient quantities. If Kodak were to discontinue manufacturing the film from which our optical media is made, we would endeavor to establish an alternate supplier for such film, although the purchase price could increase and reliability and quality could decrease from a new supplier. No assurance can be given that there will be adequate demand to attract a second source. In addition, an alternate supplier could encounter technical issues in producing the film as there may be know-how and manufacturing expertise which Kodak has developed over the years which an alternate supplier may have difficulty to replicate. We have pre-purchased a long-term supply of the film used to produce mastering loops for prerecording cards. With regard to the film from which our optical media is made, we currently have an order which Kodak has accepted with deliveries scheduled through October 2006. If Kodak announced that it was no longer going to sell film, we would request that Kodak provide us with a last-buy opportunity which we would plan to take maximum advantage of, although no assurance can be given that Kodak would provide us with such an opportunity. We have film on hand plus on order that we believe would provide us with an adequate supply to meet anticipated demand until we could locate and begin volume purchases from a second source. AN INTERRUPTION IN THE SUPPLY OF READ/WRITE DRIVE PARTS OR DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED IN READ/WRITE DRIVE ASSEMBLY COULD CAUSE A DELAY IN DELIVERIES OF DRIVES AND OPTICAL MEMORY CARDS AND A POSSIBLE LOSS OF SALES, WHICH WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS. Several major components of our read/write drives are designed specifically for our read/write drive. For example, the optical recording head for the current drive is a part obtained from one supplier; and at current production volumes, it is not economical to have more than one supplier for this custom component. The ability to produce read/write drives in high-volume production, if required, will be dependent upon maintaining or developing sources of supply of components that meet our requirements for high volume, quality, and cost. In addition, we could encounter quality control or other production problems at high-volume production of read/write drives. We are also investing in research and engineering in an effort to develop new drive products. 19 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP UPGRADED READ/WRITE DRIVES THAT COST LESS TO MANUFACTURE AND ALSO A READ-ONLY DRIVE, WE COULD LOSE POTENTIAL NEW BUSINESS. The price of our read/write drive product line ranges from $1,800 to approximately $2,500 depending on features and quantity purchased. We believe the price of our drives is competitive in applications requiring a large number of cards per each drive, because the relatively low cost for our cards offsets the high cost per drive when compared with our major competition, IC card systems. In addition, we have undertaken a product development program for a portable read-only drive that has been sampled in limited quantities at prices less than $1,000, which we believe would increase our prospects for winning future business. However, there can be no assurance that our development program will be successful, that volume production of any new design will occur in the near term, or that significantly lower manufacturing costs or increased sales will result. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADAPT OUR TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTS TO COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS WHICH GENERATE MATERIAL AMOUNTS OF REVENUE AND PROFIT. THIS WOULD LIMIT THE FUTURE GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS TO THE GOVERNMENT SECTOR AND THE LACK OF DIVERSIFICATION EXPOSES US TO ENHANCED RISK OF COMPETITION. We are seeking commercial applications for our optical memory products in order to lessen our dependence upon the government sector. Our efforts to develop OpticalProximityTM access cards are one example. We may be unsuccessful in these efforts in which case we would not obtain the diversity of revenues we are seeking for the future. If the use of our technology remains limited to secure ID card applications for government use, then we are more susceptible to other technologies and products making in-roads or to political pressures or changing laws. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADAPT TO TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES IN THE DATA CARD INDUSTRY AND IN THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY GENERALLY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO EFFECTIVELY COMPETE FOR FUTURE BUSINESS. The information technology industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continuing product evolution. The future success and growth of our business will require the ability to maintain and enhance the technological capabilities of the LaserCard® product line. There can be no assurance that the Company’s products currently sold or under development will remain competitive or provide sustained revenue growth. SEVERAL OF OUR FOREIGN PROGRAMS INVOLVE OUR CARDS AS PART OF A SOLUTION WHICH INCLUDES TECHNOLOGIES OF THIRD PARTIES. SOME TIMES THESE THIRD PARTY TECHNOLOGIESARE INTEGRATED WITH OUR CARDS BY OUR SYSTEMS INTEGRATOR CUSTOMER OR SUBCONTRACTOR. WE THEREFORE HAVE VARYING DEGREES OF CONTROL OVER THE OVERALL SYSTEM WHICH COULD LEAD TO TECHNICAL AND COMPATIBILITY ISSUES WHICH ARE DIFFICULT, EXPENSIVE, AND TIME CONSUMING TO SOLVE. THIS COULD CAUSE OUR ULTIMATE CUSTOMERS, GENERALLY GOVERNMENTS, TO FIND FAULT IN OPTICAL CARDS AND SWITCH TO OTHER SOLUTIONS EVEN THOUGH OUR OPTICAL TECHNOLOGY IS NOT THE ROOT CAUSE. In certain of our current foreign programs such as Italy, India, and a Middle Eastern country, and possibly in future other programs, various third party technologies such as contact or contactless chips will be added to our cards. The embedding or addition of other technologies to the LaserCard® optical memory card, especially when contracted to independent third parties, could potentially lead to technical, compatibility and other issues. In such circumstances, it may be difficult to determine whether a fault originated with the Company’s technology or that of a co-supplier or the person embedding or adding the third party technology to our cards. If such faults occur, they could be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming to resolve. Such difficulties could lead to our ultimate customers, the foreign governments, switching to other technologies even though optical technology is not the root cause. The resulting loss of customers would adversely affect our revenues. IF WE FAIL TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, COMPETITORS MAY BE ABLE TO USE OUR TECHNOLOGIES, WHICH COULD WEAKEN OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION, REDUCE REVENUES, OR INCREASE COSTS. We use a combination of patent, trademark, and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our existing and future patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Despite our efforts to protect proprietary rights, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our technologies, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect proprietary rights as fully as U.S. law. Any patents we may obtain may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights. Our competitors may 20 independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around any of our issued patents or other intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may not ultimately be successful. We cannot predict whether the expiration or invalidation of our patents would result in the introduction of competitive products that would affect our future revenues adversely. However, since our technology is now in the commercial stage, our know-how and experience in volume card production, system development and software capabilities, brand-name recognition within our card markets, and dominant-supplier status for optical memory cards are of far greater importance than our patents. At this time, we believe that our existing patent portfolio is helpful but is no longer essential for maintaining the LaserCard®'s market position. THE MARKETS FOR OUR PRODUCTS ARE COMPETITIVE, AND IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY, REVENUES COULD DECLINE OR FAIL TO GROW. Our optical memory cards may compete with optical memory cards that can be manufactured and sold by three of our licensees (although none is currently doing so) and with other types of portable data storage cards and technologies used for the storage and transfer of digital information. These may include contact or contactless integrated circuit (IC) chip cards; 2-dimensional bar code cards and symbology cards; thick, rigid CD or DVD-read only cards or recordable cards; radio frequency, or RFID cards; and small, digital devices such as data-storage keys, tokens, and small cards and tags. The financial and marketing resources of some of the competing companies are greater than our resources. Competitive product factors include system/card portability, interoperability, price-performance ratio of cards and associated equipment, durability, environmental tolerance, and card security. Although we believe our cards offer key technological and security advantages for certain applications, the current price of optical card read/write drives is a competitive disadvantage in some of our targeted markets. However, we believe the price of our drives is competitive in applications requiring a large number of cards per each drive, because the relatively low cost for our cards offsets the high cost per drive when compared with our major competition, IC card systems. In countries where the telecommunications infrastructure is extensive and low cost, centralized databases and wide-area networks may limit the penetration of optical memory cards. These trends toward Internet, intranet, and remote wireless networks will in some cases preclude potential applications for our cards. THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT VOLATILITY. The price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility, which may be due to fluctuations in revenues, earnings, liquidity, press coverage, financial market interest, low trading volume, and stock market conditions, as well as changes in technology and customer demand and preferences. As a result, our stock price might be low at the time a stockholder wants to sell the stock. Also, since we have a relatively low number of shares outstanding (approximately 11 million shares) there will be more volatility in our stock if one or two major holders, for example, large institutional holders, attempt to sell a large number of shares in the open market. There also is a large short position in our stock, which can create volatility when borrowed shares are sold short and later if shares are purchased to cover the short position. Furthermore, our trading volume is often small, meaning that a few trades may have disproportionate influence on our stock price. In addition, someone seeking to liquidate a sizeable position in our stock may have difficulty doing so except over an extended period or privately at a discount. Thus, if one or more stockholders were to sell or attempt to sell a large number of its shares within a short period of time, such sale or attempt could cause our stock price to decline. There can be no guarantee that stockholders will be able to sell the shares that they acquired at a price per share equal to the price they paid for the stock. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CHANGES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES. Part of the manufacturing process of the LaserCard products that we sell in Italy takes place in our operations in Germany. Also, some of the raw materials we use to manufacture optical memory cards are sourced in Europe. These costs are denominated in euros, the currency used in much of Europe. However, when we sell our finished products the prices that we charge are denominated in United States dollars. Accordingly, we are subject to exposure if the exchange rate for euros increases in relation to the United States dollar. During fiscal year 2005, we experienced a $0.2 million loss on foreign currency exchange. The losses on foreign currency exchange for both fiscal years 2006 and 2004 were immaterial. As of March 31, 2006, we had not entered into a forward exchange contract to hedge against or potentially minimize the foreign currency exchange risk related to transactions other than those related to intercompany and external payables and receivables. 21 WE SOLD A SECOND-SOURCE CARD MANUFACTURING LICENSE TO GLOBAL INVESTMENTS GROUP (GIG), UNDER WHICH WE WILL PROVIDE CERTAIN FACTORY SET-UP AND TRAINING SERVICES. IF WE ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL OR IF GIG IS UNABLE TO FINANCE THIS OPERATION, THE SECOND-SOURCE SUPPLY OF OPTICAL CARDS WILL NOT MATERIALIZE. IF WE AND GIG ARE SUCCESSFUL, THE SECOND-SOURCE WILL COMPETE WITH US FOR BUSINESS. If GIG is not successful, but current and potential customers require a second source of optical memory cards (which is a common business practice) they could decide to use alternate technology cards, such as chip cards, that have multiple-source suppliers. We are obligated to deliver approximately $12 million worth of the required manufacturing equipment and installation support to GIG for its to-be-built new card manufacturing facility in Slovenia, to provide a targeted initial manufacturing capacity of 10 million optical cards annually. If GIG is successful, this will supply a second source for optical memory cards. We will also be assigning personnel to be on site during the license term to assist with quality, security, and operational procedures, with a mutual goal that the facility and the cards made in Slovenia conform to our standards. If cards are not produced in conformance with our quality standards, the reputation and marketability of optical memory card technology could be damaged. If the factory does not become operational and produce quality cards in high volume, or if GIG is unable to raise sufficient capital to build, equip and operate this facility, we would not obtain the hoped-for benefits--including ongoing royalties, sales of raw materials to GIG, expansion of the European market, and a bona fide second source for optical memory cards. In these regards, GIG currently is overdue in paying us approximately $5.9 million under our Agreement with GIG most recently committing to complete the payment by the end of June. The Company has begun to investigate alternative courses of action should GIG fail to make such payment. GIG also has not identified a site for the facility, several dates originally proposed by GIG for doing so having passed. On the other hand, if and when the factory is successfully manufacturing the cards in high volume, it will compete against us for business in certain territories, which could reduce our potential card revenues if the market does not expand. Revenue will be recognized over the remaining term of the agreement beginning when the equipment has been accepted and training completed, which date is dependent on GIG providing a facility in Slovenia. The Company could incur greater expenses than it anticipates for the purchase and installation of the required manufacturing equipment thereby reducing cash and anticipated profits. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT, RETAIN OR INTEGRATE KEY PERSONNEL, WHICH MAY PREVENT US FROM SUCCEEDING. We may not be able to retain our key personnel or attract other qualified personnel in the future. Our success will depend upon the continued service of key management personnel. The loss of services of any of the key members of our management team, including our chief executive officer, chief operating officer, the managing directors of our German operations, vice president of business development or our vice president of finance and treasurer, or our failure to attract and retain other key personnel could disrupt operations and have a negative effect on employee productivity and morale, thus decreasing production and harming our financial results. In addition, the competition to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel is intense. OUR CALIFORNIA FACILITIES ARE LOCATED IN AN EARTHQUAKE ZONE AND THESE OPERATIONS COULD BE INTERRUPTED IN THE EVENT OF AN EARTHQUAKE, FIRE, OR OTHER DISASTER. Our card manufacturing, corporate headquarters, and drive assembly operations, administrative, and product development activities are located near major earthquake fault lines. In the event of a major earthquake, we could experience business interruptions, destruction of facilities and/or loss of life, all of which could materially adversely affect us. Likewise, fires, floods, or other events could similarly disrupt our operations and interrupt our business. FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Economic, political and other risks associated with foreign operations could adversely affect our international sales. We sell our products worldwide and therefore, our business could be subject to risks due to changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions. Differing tax laws and changes in those laws may also affect future results of our operations. PANDEMICS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. The occurrence of a pandemic such as the Bird Flu coupled with the lack of government readiness and support in those countries where we do business could temporarily impede our revenue growth. ACTS OF TERRORISM OR WAR MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Acts of terrorism, acts of war, and other events may cause damage or disruption to our properties, business, employees, suppliers, distributors, 22 resellers, and customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Such events may also result in an economic slowdown in the United States or elsewhere, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. WE ARE PLANNING TO IMPLEMENT ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (“ERP”) SOFTWARE DURING CALENDAR 2006 TO PROVIDE US THE INFORMATION WE NEED TO BETTER MANAGE AND PLAN OUR BUSINESS AND ENHANCE OUR FINANCIAL REPORTING. IF THIS IMPLEMENTATION IS UNSUCCESSFUL OR DELAYED, IT COULD ADVERSELY IMPACT RATHER THAN ENHANCE OUR ABILITY TO MANAGE AND GROW OUR BUSINESS. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future, especially as we integrate our German subsidiary’s management and accounting information system. We are planning to implement ERP software during calendar 2006 to provide us the information we need to better manage and plan our business and enhance our financial reporting. Such implementations are costly and require personnel time and attention in order to succeed and can be delayed and problematic. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. AS A RESULT OF OUR REQUIRED ANNUAL EVALUATION OF OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING, WE MAY IDENTIFY INTERNAL CONTROL WEAKNESSES NEEDING REMEDIATION, WHICH COULD HARM OUR REPUTATION. We have completed the first and second annual evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and 2006. Although our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of both March 31, 2006 and 2005, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods. Because of the inherent limitation of disclosure controls, no evaluation of such controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. If our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, our reputation could be harmed. We may incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, either of which could materially increase our operating expenses and accordingly reduce our net income. BEGINNING WITH OUR FISCAL YEAR 2007, WE WILL BE REQUIRED TO RECORD COMPENSATION EXPENSE FOR STOCK OPTIONS. AS A RESULT OF THE RESULTING SIGNIFICANT EXPENSES, IT WILL BE MORE DIFFICULT FOR US TO CONTINUE TO BE PROFITABLE AND ANY PROFITABILITY WE ACHIEVE WILL BE REDUCED SIGNIFICANTLY. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Financial Accounting Standard 123R that requires the fair value of all equity-based awards granted to employees be recognized in the statement of operations as compensation expense, for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005, rather than just to disclose such expense in a footnote as we have done in the previous years. Given our outstanding options and our current intention to continue to grant options in the future as an incentive and retention tool for our employees, the adoption of this accounting standard will reduce our profitability as measured by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) which may adversely affect our stock price. Such adoption could lead us to supplement our GAAP reports with non-GAAP measures in order to provide analysts with the same metrics we use to measure our business. Such adoption could also lead us to reduce or otherwise alter our use of stock options which we believe help align our employees’ long-term interests with increasing our enterprise value. This could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 23 ITEM 