Risk Factors.” AVAILABLE INFORMATION General information about Ducommun can be obtained from our website address at www.ducommun.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Information included in our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Ducommun. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. We have summarized below the significant, known material risks to our business. Additional risk factors not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Any of these risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause our future financial results to differ materially from recent financial results or from currently anticipated future financial results. The risk factors below should be considered together with the information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K as well as other required filings by us to the SEC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our considerable indebtedness could limit our financing options, adversely affect our financial condition, and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We had $365.7 million of outstanding long-term debt, including the current portion, at December 31, 2012. To fund the LaBarge Acquisition in June 2011, we issued $200.0 million of senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) and entered into a $190.0 million senior secured term loan (the “Term Loan”) and a $60.0 million senior secured credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), (collectively the “Credit Facilities”), and as a result, currently have a high level of indebtedness. We paid down $26.5 million on our long-term debt, primarily through voluntary principal pre-payments totaling $25.0 million in 2012 and have reduced our outstanding long-term debt to $365.7 million at December 31 2012 from $392.2 million at December 31, 2011. We plan to make $25.0 million to $30.0 million of additional pre-payments in 2013. We expect to refinance our debt in 2015 but our ability to complete such refinancing may be limited, as discussed below in this risk factor. We may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as selling assets; reducing or delaying scheduled expansions and/or capital investments; or seeking various forms of capital. For additional information related to our indebtedness, see “Part II, Item 8. Ducommun and Subsidiaries—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7. Long-Term Debt.” Our ability to complete alternative financing plans may be affected by circumstances and economic events outside of our control. We cannot be assured that we would be able to refinance our debt or enter into alternative financing plans in adequate amounts on commercially reasonable terms, terms acceptable to us or at all, or that such plans guarantee that we would be able to meet our debt obligations. Our high level of debt could: • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • require a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; 14 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; • place us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; • expose us to the risk of increased borrowing costs and higher interest rates as borrowings under our Credit Facilities bear interest at variable rates, which could further adversely impact our cash flows; • limit our flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; • restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • expose us to risk of rating agency downgrades and unfavorable changes in the global credit markets; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes and our other debt and maintain financial ratios as discussed below; and • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all Notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which failure to repurchase would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes. The occurrence of any one of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our outstanding debt. We require a considerable amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including the Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures and working capital increases, will depend upon our ability to generate significant cash in the future. Our ability to generate cash is subject to economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. While we expect to meet all of our financial obligations, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available under the Revolving Credit Facility, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, including the Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. At December 31, 2012, the outstanding balance on the Term Loan was $162.6 million with an interest rate of 5.50%, consisting of a London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) interest rate floor of 1.25%, plus a margin of 4.25%. Should interest rates increase above the interest rate floor of 1.25%, our debt service cost will increase. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents The covenants in our Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility and may limit our ability to make payments on the Notes. In the event that a certain minimum amount is borrowed and outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility, for so long as any such amount is outstanding, we will be required to comply with a total leverage ratio, as defined in the agreement. Furthermore, our consolidated earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), as defined by our debt facilities, as of the end of any fiscal quarter on a trailing four-quarter basis is not permitted to be less than $50.0 million. The total leverage ratio decreases over the term of the Revolving Credit Facility, which will require us to generate either increasing cash flows or increasing EBITDA in the future. At December 31, 2012, no amounts were outstanding under the Revolving Credit facility which would have required us to comply with the total leverage ratio. However, we would have been in compliance with such total leverage ratio. At December 31, 2012, we were in compliance with the EBITDA covenant. There is no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with the leverage ratio or the EBITDA covenant in future periods. Our Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to incur additional indebtedness, to create liens, to make certain payments, investments and capital expenditures, to pay dividends, to engage in transactions with affiliates, to sell certain assets or enter into mergers. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and otherwise conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with such covenants. These restrictions also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the Notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. A breach of any covenant in the Credit Facilities or the agreements and indentures governing any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding from time to time, including the indenture governing the Notes, would result in a default under that agreement or indenture after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the debt outstanding under other debt agreements. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such debt. A default could permit our lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing such debt. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms or amounts that are acceptable to us or terms as favorable as our current agreements. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to make the change of control offer required by the indenture governing the Notes. We may be unable to purchase the Notes upon a change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. Upon a change of control, we will be required to offer to purchase all of the Notes then outstanding for cash at 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the date of purchase on the Notes. If a change of control were to occur, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the change of control purchase price and we may be required to secure third-party financing to do so. However, we may not be able to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms, on terms acceptable to us or at all. A change of control under the indenture governing the Notes may also result in an event of default under our Credit Facilities which may cause the acceleration of indebtedness outstanding thereunder, in which case, proceeds of collateral pledged to secure borrowings thereunder would be used to repay such borrowings before we repay the Notes. In addition, our future indebtedness may also contain restrictions on our ability to repurchase the Notes upon certain events, including transactions that could constitute a change of control under the indenture governing the Notes. Our failure to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes and would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The typical trading volume of our common stock may affect an investor’s ability to sell significant stock holdings in the future without negatively impacting stock price. The level of trading activity may vary daily and typically represents only a small percentage of outstanding shares. As a result, a stockholder who sells a significant amount of shares in a short period of time could negatively affect our share price. Our considerable amount of debt may require us to raise additional capital to fund operations. We may sell additional shares of common stock or other equity securities to raise capital in the future, which could dilute the value of an investor’s holdings. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our end-use markets are cyclical. We sell our products into both aerospace and non-aerospace end-use markets, (natural resources, industrial and medical and other), which are cyclical and have experienced periodic declines. Our sales are, therefore, unpredictable and tend to fluctuate based on a number of factors, including global economic conditions, geopolitical developments and conditions, and other developments affecting our end-use markets and the customers served. Consequently, results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the operating results that may be experienced in any future period. 17 Table of Contents We depend upon a selected base of industries and customers, which subjects us to unique risks which may adversely affect us. We currently generate a majority of our revenue from customers in the aerospace and defense industry. Our business depends, in part, on the level of new military and commercial aircraft orders. As a result, we have significant sales to certain customers. A significant portion of our net sales in our military and space end-use markets are made under subcontracts with OEMs, under their prime contracts with the U. S. Government. Sales to Boeing comprise the majority of our commercial aerospace end-use market. Our customers may experience delays in the launch of new products, labor strikes, diminished liquidity or credit unavailability, weak demand for their products, or other difficulties in their business. In fiscal 2012, our net sales to Boeing, Raytheon, Spirit AeroSystems, Owens-Illinois, and Schlumberger were 16.8%, 7.2%, 5.4%, 4.5%, and 4.1%, of our total net sales, respectively. These sales were diversified over a number of different military and space, commercial, aerospace, natural resources, industrial medical and other products. Any significant change in production rates by these customers would have a material effect on our results of operations and cash flows. There is no guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels, and that we will retain any or all of our existing customers, or that we will be able to form new relationships with customers upon the loss of one or more of our existing customers. This risk may be further complicated by pricing pressures, intense competition prevalent in our industry and other factors. A significant reduction in sales to any of our major customers, the loss of a major customer, or a default on a major customer on accounts receivable could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, we generally make sales under purchase orders and contracts that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of the industries we serve could result in customer cancellation of contractual orders or requests for rescheduling. Some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to schedule and performance, and failure to deliver in accordance with such provisions could result in cancellations, modifications, rescheduling and/or penalties, in some cases at the customers’ convenience and without prior notice. While we have normally recovered our direct and indirect costs, such cancellations, modifications, or rescheduling that cannot be replaced in a timely fashion, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A significant portion of our business depends upon U.S. Government defense spending. We derive a significant portion of our business from customers whose principal sales are to the U.S. Government and from direct sales by us to the U.S. Government. In 2012, approximately 50.9% of our net sales were derived from military and space end-use markets. Accordingly, the success of our business depends upon government spending generally or for specific departments or agencies in particular. Such spending, among other factors, is subject to the uncertainties of governmental appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, constraints of the budgetary process, timing and potential changes in these policies and priorities, and the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations. 18 Table of Contents These and other factors could cause the government and government agencies, or prime contractors that use us as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from exercising options to renew contracts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain U.S. Government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are typically funded annually. Changes in the government’s strategy and priorities may affect our existing programs and future opportunities. Our government contracts and related orders with the U.S. Government are subject to cancellation, or delay, if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. In addition, we anticipate that the U.S. Department of Defense budget will be under pressure as the current administration is faced with competing national priorities. The termination of funding for existing or new U.S. Government programs, or delays in payment, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. The accuracy and appropriateness of certain costs and expenses used to substantiate our direct and indirect costs for the U.S. Government contracts are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an arm of the Department of Defense. Such audits and reviews could result in adjustments to our contract costs and profitability. However, we cannot assure the outcome of any future audits and adjustments may be required to reduce net sales or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit or review were to uncover inaccurate costs or improper activities, we could be subject to penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from conducting future business with the U.S. Government. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Contracts with some of our customers, including Federal government contracts, contain provisions which give our customers a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us and the OEMs to whom we provide products and services, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience. Contracts with some of our customers, including Federal government contracts, contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that provide rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow our customers to: • terminate existing contracts, in whole or in part, for convenience, as well as for default, or if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; 19 Table of Contents • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency as a result of a finding of an organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors; • claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and • control or prohibit the export of the products and related services we offer. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, the counterparty with whom we have contracted on a subcontract may terminate its contract with us. As a result of any such termination, whether on a direct government contract or subcontract, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the U.S. Government terminates a direct contract with us for default, we may not even recover those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer. In addition, the U.S. Government is typically required to open all programs to competitive bidding and, therefore, may not automatically renew any of its prime contracts. If one or more of our government prime or subcontracts is terminated or cancelled, our failure to replace sales generated from such contracts would result in lower sales and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Significant consolidation in the aerospace and defense industry could adversely affect our business and financial results. The aerospace and defense industry is experiencing significant consolidation, including our customers, competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among our customers may result in delays in the award of new contracts and losses of existing business. Consolidation among our competitors may result in larger competitors with greater resources and market share, which could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully. Consolidation among our suppliers may result in fewer sources of supply and increased cost to us. We rely on our suppliers to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers. Our ability to deliver our products and services on schedule is dependent upon a variety of factors, including execution of internal performance plans, availability of raw materials, internal and supplier produced parts and structures, conversion of raw materials into parts and assemblies, and performance of suppliers and others. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers for raw materials and a large proportion of the components used in our production process. Certain of these raw materials and components are available only from single sources or a limited number of suppliers, or similarly, customers’ specifications may require us to obtain raw materials and/or components from a single source or certain suppliers. Many of our suppliers are small companies with limited financial resources and manufacturing capabilities. We do not currently have the ability to manufacture these 20 Table of Contents components ourselves. These and other factors, including the loss of a critical supplier or raw materials and/or component shortages, could cause disruptions or cost inefficiencies in our operations compared to our competitors that have greater direct purchasing power, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may not obtain further benefits from the LaBarge Acquisition or such benefits may take longer than expected to be realized, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We will be required to continue to devote significant management attention and resources to fully integrate LaBarge’s operations to achieve an alignment of our geographically disbursed manufacturing facilities and capabilities and identify, improve and/or eliminate underperforming or redundant operations or product lines. We will continue to implement information systems to replace the LaBarge existing information systems. Delays or unexpected difficulties in the continuing integration process could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. Unanticipated costs may also be incurred as we continue to integrate LaBarge’s operations into our business. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our ongoing integration efforts. As we continue to integrate LaBarge’s operations, we may not achieve further benefits of synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies that we expect or achieve these benefits within a reasonable period of time. While we expect to benefit from leveraging distribution channels and brand names across both companies, we cannot assure that we will fully achieve such benefits. If the benefits of the acquisition do not exceed the costs of integrating the business of LaBarge into our business, our financial results may be adversely affected. We use estimates when bidding on fixed-price contracts. Changes in our estimates could adversely affect our financial results. We enter into contracts providing for a firm, fixed-price for the sale of some of our products regardless of the production costs incurred by us. In many cases, we make multi-year firm, fixed-price commitments to our customers, without assurance that our anticipated production costs will be achieved. Contract bidding and accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract net sales and costs, including estimating cost increases over time and efficiencies to be gained, and making assumptions for supplier sourcing and quality, manufacturing scheduling and technical issues over the life of the contract. Such assumptions can be particularly difficult to estimate for contracts with new customers. Our failure to accurately estimate these costs can result in reduced profits or incurred losses. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimates involved, it is possible that materially different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. Therefore, any changes in our underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. See “Part II, Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Critical Accounting Policies—Revenue Recognition for further information.” 21 Table of Contents Risks associated with operating and conducting our business outside the United States could adversely impact us. We have facilities in Thailand and Mexico and also derive a portion of our net sales from direct foreign sales. Further, our customers may derive portions of their sales to non-U.S. customers. As a result, we are subject to the risks of conducting and operating our business internationally, including: • political instability; • economic and geopolitical developments and conditions; • compliance with a variety of international laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • imposition of taxes, export controls, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions; and • difficulties repatriating funds or restrictions on cash transfers. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. As we move up the value chain to become a Tier 2 supplier, enhanced design, product development, manufacturing, supply chain project management and other skills will be required. We may encounter difficulties as we execute our growth strategy to move up the value chain to become a Tier 2 supplier of more complex, value-added assemblies. Difficulties we may encounter include, but are not limited to, the need for enhanced and expanded product design skills, enhanced ability to control and influence our suppliers, enhanced quality control systems and infrastructure, enhanced large-scale project management skills, and expanded industry certifications. Assuming incremental project design responsibilities would require us to assume additional risk in developing cost estimates and could expose us to increased risk of losses. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining the enhanced skills required to be a Tier 2 supplier or that our customers will outsource such functions to us. Goodwill and/or other assets could be impaired in the future, resulting in substantial charges. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, management is required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include improvements in manufacturing efficiency, reductions in operating costs and increases in sales and backlog. Due to many variables inherent in the estimation of a business’s fair value and the relative size of our recorded goodwill, differences in estimates and assumptions may have a material effect on the results of our impairment analysis. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not 22 Table of Contents realized in the future, or if market multiples decline, we may be required to record an additional impairment charge for goodwill. Impairment charges may be incurred against other intangible assets if asset utilization declines, customer demand declines or other circumstances indicate that the asset carrying value may not be recoverable. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2009, we recorded pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $54.3 million and $12.9 million, respectively, or $33.4 million and $8.0 million, respectively, after tax. Ducommun’s goodwill and other intangible assets as of December 31, 2012 were $338.3 million, or 43.1% of total assets. See “Part II, Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis—Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill” for further information. OTHER RISKS Our operations are subject to numerous extensive, complex, costly and evolving laws, regulations and restrictions, and failure to comply with these laws, regulations and restrictions could subject us to penalties and sanctions that could harm our business. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government, and subcontracts with other prime contractors, are subject to numerous laws and regulations which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. As a result, our contracts and operations are subject to numerous, extensive, complex, costly and evolving laws, regulation and restrictions, principally by the U.S. Government or their agencies. These laws, regulation and restrictions govern items including, but not limited to, the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, disclosure of cost and pricing data, civil penalties for violations or false claims to the U.S. Government for payment, define reimbursable costs, establish ethical standards for the procurement process and control the import and export of defense articles and services. Noncompliance could expose us to liability for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting and various other fines and penalties. Noncompliance found by any one agency could result in fines, penalties, debarment or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. Given our dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations, at any time, including increased usage of fixed-price contracts and procurement reform. Such changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or subcontracts or renew contracts or subcontracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are put up for recompetition. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future net sales. In addition, our international operations subject us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Changes in regulations or political environments may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets including 23 Table of Contents investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in certain liabilities and could possibly result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Customer pricing pressures could reduce the demand and/or price for our products and services. The aerospace and non-aerospace end-use markets we serve are highly competitive and price sensitive. In both of these markets, we compete worldwide with a number of domestic and international companies that have substantially greater manufacturing, purchasing, marketing and financial resources than we do. Many of our customers have the in-house capability to fulfill their manufacturing requirements. Our larger competitors may be able to vie more effectively for very large-scale contracts than we can by providing different or greater capabilities or benefits such as technical qualifications, past performance on large-scale contracts, geographic presence, price and availability of key professional personnel. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business, our net sales growth and operating margins may decline. We may experience competitive pricing pressures which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, there can be no assurance that competition from existing or potential competitors in other segments of our business will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we do not continue to compete effectively and win contracts, our future business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to meet our financial obligations may be materially compromised. Our products and processes are subject to risks of obsolescence as a result of changes in technology and evolving industry and regulatory standards. The future success of our business depends in large part upon our and our customers’ ability to maintain and enhance technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological advances in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis, while meeting evolving industry and regulatory standards. To address these risks, we invest in product design and development, and undertake capital expenditures. There can be no guarantee that our product design and development efforts will be successful, or that funds required to be invested in product design and development or incurred as capital expenditures will not increase materially in the future. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to various U.S. and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, storage, transport, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals and materials used and emissions generated during our manufacturing process. We do not carry insurance for these potential environmental liabilities. Any failure by us to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Moreover, some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can impose joint and several liability retroactively regardless of fault or the legality of the activities giving rise to the contamination. Compliance with existing 24 Table of Contents or future environmental laws and regulations may require extensive capital expenditures, increase our cost or impact our production capabilities. Even if such expenditures are made, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply. We have been directed to investigate and take corrective action for groundwater contamination at certain sites. Our ultimate liability for such matters will depend upon a number of factors. See “Part II, Item 8. Ducommun Incorporated and Subsidiaries—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 14. Contingencies” for further information. Cyber security attacks, internal system or service failures may adversely impact our business and operations. Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by projects to improve our information technology systems, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide products and related services to our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks. Cyber security threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, unauthorized attempts to gain access to sensitive, confidential or otherwise protected information related to Ducommun or our products, customers or suppliers, or other acts that could lead to disruptions in our business. Any such failures could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not have the ability to renew facilities leases on terms favorable to us and relocation of operations presents risks due to business interruption. Certain of our manufacturing facilities and offices are leased and have lease terms that expire between 2013 and 2020. The majority of these leases provide renewal options at the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal, which, if renewed, could be significantly higher than our current rental rates. We may be unable to offset these cost increases by charging more for our products and services. Furthermore, continued economic conditions may continue to negatively impact and create greater pressure in the commercial real estate market, causing higher incidences of landlord default and/or lender foreclosure of properties, including properties occupied by us. While we maintain certain non-disturbance rights in most cases, it is not certain that such rights will in all cases be upheld and our continued right of occupancy in such instances is potentially jeopardized. An occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Additionally, if we choose to move any of our operations, those operations will be subject to additional relocation costs and associated risks of business interruption. 25 Table of Contents We face risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions of businesses. A key element of our long-term strategy continues to be growth through acquisitions. Acquisitions may require us to incur additional indebtedness, resulting in increased leverage, and increased borrowing costs. Our ability to grow by acquisition is dependent on, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates, which could be impacted by consolidation within our industry. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms or, if any acquisitions are consummated, to satisfactorily integrate these acquired businesses. Acquisitions may also present risks not contemplated at the time of the transaction and may result in an unfavorable impact to our business, may be poorly executed or may fail to achieve our objectives. Growth by acquisition could divert financial and management resources and involves risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, potential increased cost due to the amortization of acquired intangible assets, potential impairment of goodwill and acquired intangible assets and the potential loss of key customers, suppliers or employees of acquired companies. We also periodically review our existing businesses to determine if they are consistent with our strategy. We have sold, and may sell in the future, business units and product lines, which may result in either a gain or loss upon disposition. The occurrence of litigation in which we could be named as a defendant is unpredictable. From time to time, we and our subsidiaries are involved in various legal and other proceedings that are incidental to the conduct of our business. While we believe no current proceedings, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, no assurances can be given. Any such claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Product liability claims in excess of insurance could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. We face potential liability for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of products designed or manufactured by us. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance (including aircraft product liability insurance), any material product liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Damage or destruction of our facilities caused by storms, earthquake or other causes could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. We have operations located in regions of the U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Although we maintain standard property casualty insurance covering our properties and may be able to recover costs associated with certain natural disasters through insurance, we do not carry any earthquake insurance because of the cost of such insurance. Many of our properties are located in Southern California, an area subject to 26 Table of Contents earthquake activity. Our California facilities generated $251.4 million in net sales during fiscal year 2012. Even if covered by insurance, any significant damage or destruction of our facilities due to storms, earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the inability to meet customer delivery schedules and may result in the loss of customers and significant additional costs to us. Thus, any significant damage or destruction of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain key engineering, technical and managerial personnel, at both the executive and plant level. We face competition for management, engineering and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. The loss of members of our senior management group, or key engineering and technical personnel, could negatively impact our ability to grow and remain competitive in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Labor disruptions by our employees could adversely affect our business. We employ approximately 3,294 people. Two of our operating units are parties to collective bargaining agreements, expiring July 1, 2015 and January 1, 2016, covering 256 full time hourly employees and 237 employees, respectively. Although we have not experienced any material labor-related work stoppage and consider our relations with our employees to be good, labor stoppages may occur in the future. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements with the unions or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, higher ongoing labor costs and possible loss of customer contracts, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs and may continue to increase our costs in the future. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), enacted in July 2010, expands federal regulation of corporate governance matters. While some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are effective upon enactment, others will be implemented upon the SEC’s adoption of related rules and regulations. The scope and timing of the adoption of such rules and regulations is uncertain and accordingly, the cost of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act is also uncertain. The Dodd-Frank Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefitting armed groups. As a result, the SEC has recently adopted new due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies which manufacture products that include components containing such minerals. These new due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements will apply to our activities in calendar year 2013 and we will be required to issue our first required report due in May 2014. Such regulations could decrease the availability and increase the prices of components containing such minerals used in our products. In addition, we expect that the compliance process will be both time-consuming 27 Table of Contents and costly. We may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of these certain minerals contained in the components included in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Further, compliance with new and existing laws, rules, regulations and standards may make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 28 Table of Contents 