ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, most of which are beyond our control. We are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the United States. All of our stores are located within the United States, making our results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. A slowdown in the U.S. economy or other economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, inflation, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates, and tax rates, may affect our business adversely by reducing overall consumer spending or by causing customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to products sold by us that are less profitable than other product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover or a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in these states: Kansas, Texas and Nebraska, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. Deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the United States, particularly in Kansas, Texas or Nebraska, could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reducing overall sales, and reducing gross margins. We are vulnerable to cost increases, inflation and energy prices. Future increases in our costs, such as the cost of merchandise, shipping rates, and freight and fuel costs, may reduce our profitability. These cost changes may be the result of inflationary pressures or changes in foreign currency values versus the US dollar; especially with respect to countries that produce the products we procure. A decline in the value of the US dollar, versus currencies of the countries that produce the product, will increase our cost of goods and may reduce our sales or profitability. Increases in other operating costs, including changes in energy prices, wage rates and utility costs, may increase our costs of goods or operating expenses and reduce our profitability. For example, increases in the cost of diesel fuel may result in an increase in transportation costs, which may increase our overall operating costs and possibly lower profitability. We may be forced to lower prices to effectively compete, which would adversely affect our financial results. The Company operates in the broad line retail business, which is highly competitive. Although the Company prefers markets that don’t have direct competition from national or regional broad line retail stores, competition still exists. Even in non-competitive markets, the Company’s customers shop at broad line retail stores and other retailers located in regional trade centers. The Company also competes for retail sales with other entities, such as specialty retailers, mass merchandisers, dollar stores and the internet. This competitive environment subjects the Company to the risk of reduced profitability because the Company may be forced to lower its prices, resulting in lower margins, in order to maintain its competitive position. If we cannot effectively open new stores, our ability to improve our financial results will be adversely affected. The growth in the Company’s sales and operating income depends to a substantial degree on its expansion program. This expansion strategy is dependent upon the Company’s ability to open and operate new stores effectively, efficiently and on a profitable basis. The Company’s ability to open new stores timely and to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: availability of store locations, the ability to hire and train new store personnel, the ability to react to consumer needs and trends on a timely basis, and the availability of sufficient capital for expansion. The Company continually reviews underperforming stores to determine potential closures. As a result of closing underperforming stores, the Company may not be able to effectively absorb fixed overhead. 4 If we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced since fiscal 2008, could adversely affect the ability of lenders to meet their commitments. Our access to funds under the credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity, or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Constrained capital markets could threaten our liquidity and capital resources. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. We believe operating cash flows and current credit facilities will be adequate to fund our working capital requirements, scheduled debt repayments and to support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies. If we cannot effectively implement or use information technology, our financial results and operations would be adversely affected. If we cannot effectively implement technology upgrades, it could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company depends on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed which could have a negative effect on our business. Changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks. Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. Significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce (none of which is represented by unions as of the end of fiscal 2012) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. Examples of possible legislative changes impacting our relationship with our workforce include changes to minimum wage requirements and health care mandates. In addition, certain aspects of our business, such as credit card operations, are more heavily regulated than other areas. Changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including governmental enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure to design, implement or maintain an adequate system of internal controls could adversely affect our ability to manage our business or detect fraud. The Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Internal control over financial reporting includes: maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The Company continues to refine and test its internal control over financial reporting processes. Our results are subject to seasonal variations. Quarterly results of operations have historically fluctuated as a result of retail consumers purchasing patterns, with the highest quarter in terms of sales and profitability being the fourth quarter. Quarterly results of operations will likely continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of such patterns and may fluctuate due to the timing of new store openings. Our stock price may be volatile. No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in the Company’s stock price. We are dependent on key personnel. The development of the Company’s business is largely dependent on the efforts of its current management team headed by Richard E. Wilson and three other executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are exposed to interest rate risks. The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing requirements. Increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. If we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margin and profitability could suffer. A substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in apparel, home décor, seasonal offerings and other merchandise. Failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyles decisions could lead to lost sales, increased markdowns on inventory and adversely affect our results of operations. 5 Interruptions in our supply chain could adversely affect our results. We are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. If a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise shortages that could lead to lost sales. In addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the United States, with China as our single largest source. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security or other events that could slow port activities and impact foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and adversely affect our results of operations. Lack of availability of suitable locations in which to build new stores could slow our growth, and difficulty in executing plans for new stores, expansions and remodels could increase our costs and capital requirements. Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. In addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer’s ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. Turmoil in the financial markets has made it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. Local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may affect our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing, expanding and remodeling our stores. Product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children’s products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests’ expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. All of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to governmental enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our customers to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. In those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our customers. Weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial condition. Weather conditions have impacted our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices. In past years, we have experienced severe weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, tornadoes and droughts in some states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for seasonal products, particularly during the winter season. Therefore, the weather can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our experience involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to governmental enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products or stop shopping at our stores altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Healthcare reform legislation and regulations may negatively impact our business In 2010, the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” and the “Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010” (the “2010 Healthcare Acts”) were signed into law. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage for those already insured. The 2010 Healthcare Acts, as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures, may have a negative impact on our business. This impact could increase our employee healthcare related costs. While the costs of the 2010 Healthcare Acts will occur after 2013, due to provisions of this legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare cost structure could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 