ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company encourages investors to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this document when considering an investment decision with respect to he Company’s securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or that management currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that instance, the trading price of the Company’s securities could decline, and investors might lose part or all of their investment. Economic Conditions Similar to other retail businesses, the Company’s operations may be affected adversely by general economic conditions and events which result in reduced consumer spending in the markets served by its stores. Also, smaller communities where the Company’s stores are located may be dependent upon a few large employers or may be significantly affected by economic conditions in the industry upon which the community relies for its economic viability, such as the agricultural industry. This may make the Company’s stores more vulnerable to a downturn in a particular segment of the economy than the Company’s competitors, which operate in markets which are larger metropolitan areas where the local economy is more diverse. Competition The Company operates in the discount retail business, which is highly competitive. Although the Company prefers markets that don’t have direct competition from national or regional full-line discount stores, competition still exists. Even in non-competitive markets, the Company’s customers shop at retail discount stores and other retailers located in regional trade centers. The Company also competes for retail sales with other entities, such as mail order companies, specialty retailers, mass merchandisers, dollar stores, manufacturer’s outlets, and the internet. This competitive environments subjects the Company to the risk of reduced profitability because the Company may be forced to lower its prices, resulting in lower margins, in order to maintain its competitive position. Store Expansion The growth in the Company’s sales and operating net income depends to a substantial degree on its expansion program. This expansion strategy is dependent upon the Company’s ability the open and operate new stores effectively, efficiently, and on a profitable basis. The Company prefers to locate its ALCO stores in smaller retail markets where no competing full-line discount retail store is located within the primary trade area. The Company’s ability to timely open new stores and to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: availability of store locations, the ability to hire and train new store personnel, the ability to react to consumer needs and trends on a timely basis, and the availability of sufficient capital for expansion. Information Technology The Company’s ability to implement and train employees on the new POS software, its ability to utilize technology upgrades, and to meet the timetables for rolling out the new technology to the stores could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. Government Regulation The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local government laws and regulations, including those relating to the development, construction and operation of the Company’s stores. The Company is also subject to laws governing its relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, laws and regulations relating to overtime, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements. Material increases in the cost of compliance with any applicable law or regulation and similar matters could materially and adversely affect the Company. Quarterly Fluctuations Quarterly results of operations have historically fluctuated as a result of retail consumers purchasing patterns, with the highest quarter in terms of sales and profitability being the fourth quarter. Quarterly results of operations will likely continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of such patterns and may fluctuate due to the timing of new store openings. 7 Dependence on Officers The development of the Company’s business is largely dependent on the efforts of its current management team headed by Bruce C. Dale and seven other executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Interest Rate Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing requirements. Changes in interest rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 