ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Any of these risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause the Company’s future financial results to differ materially from recent financial results or from currently anticipated future financial results. In addition to those noted elsewhere in this report, the Company is subject to the following risks and uncertainties: Aerospace Markets Are Cyclical The aerospace markets in which the Company sells its products are cyclical and have experienced periodic declines. The Company’s sales are, therefore, unpredictable and tend to fluctuate based on a number of factors, including economic conditions and developments affecting the aerospace industry and the customers served. Military and Space-Related Products Are Dependent Upon Government Spending In 2009 approximately 64% of sales were derived from military and space markets. These markets are largely dependent upon government spending, particularly by the United States government. Changes in the nature or levels of spending for military and space could improve or negatively impact the Company’s prospects in its military and space markets. The Company Is Dependent on Boeing Commercial Aircraft, the C-17 Aircraft and Apache Helicopter and United Technologies Sikorsky Blackhawk Helicopter Programs In 2009 approximately 17% of its sales were for Boeing commercial aircraft, 10% of its sales were for the C-17 aircraft, 9% of its sales were for the United Technologies (Sikorsky Blackhawk helicopter) program and 8% of its sales were for the Apache helicopter. During 2010, the production rate and the Company’s sales for the Apache helicopter program are expected to be reduced. Sales in 2010 for the Apache helicopter program are expected to be 25% to 35% below 2009 levels. The Company’s sales for Boeing commercial aircraft and the C-17 aircraft are principally for new aircraft production; and the Company’s sales for the Apache helicopter are principally for replacement rotor blades. Any significant change in production rates for Boeing commercial aircraft, the C-17 aircraft, United Technologies (Sikorsky Blackhawk helicopter), and the replacement rate for the Apache helicopter blades, would have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. In addition, there is no guarantee that the Company’s current significant customers will continue to buy products from the Company at current levels. The loss of a key customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Deterioration in Credit Markets Could Adversely Impact the Company The deterioration in credit markets could adversely impact the Company. The Company depends upon cash flow from operations and its revolving credit facility to provide liquidity. The Company’s credit agreement currently matures on June 30, 2014. Because of the Company’s relatively low leverage, the Company does not expect any short-term liquidity issues. However, the availability of credit on acceptable terms is necessary to support the Company’s growth and acquisition strategy. 11 The Company Is Experiencing Competitive Pricing Pressures The aerospace industry is highly competitive and competitive pressures may adversely affect the Company. The Company competes worldwide with a number of domestic and international companies that are larger than it in terms of resources and market share. The Company is experiencing competitive pricing pressures in both its DAS and DTI businesses. These pressures have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company Faces Risks of Cost Overruns and Losses on Fixed-Price Contracts The Company sells many of its products under firm, fixed-price contracts providing for a fixed price for the products regardless of the production costs incurred by the Company. As a result, manufacturing inefficiencies, start-up costs and other factors may result in cost overruns and losses on contracts. The cost of producing products also may be adversely affected by increases in the cost of labor, materials, outside processing, overhead and other factors. In many cases, the Company makes multiyear firm, fixed-price commitments to its customers, without assurance the Company’s anticipated production costs will be achieved. Risks Associated With Foreign Operations Could Adversely Impact the Company The Company has facilities in Thailand and Mexico. Doing business in foreign countries is subject to various risks, including political instability, local economic conditions, foreign currency fluctuations, foreign government regulatory requirements, trade tariffs, and the potentially limited availability of skilled labor in proximity to the Company’s facilities. The Company’s Products and Processes Are Subject to Risks from Changes in Technology The Company’s products and processes are subject to risks of obsolescence as a result of changes in technology. To address this risk, the Company invests in product design and development, and for capital expenditures. There can be no guarantee that the Company’s product design and development efforts will be successful, or funds required to be invested for product design and development and capital expenditures will not increase materially in the future. The Company Faces Risks Associated with Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses A key element of the Company’s long-term strategy has been growth through acquisitions. The Company is continuously reviewing and actively pursuing acquisitions, including acquisitions outside of its current aerospace markets. Acquisitions may require the Company to incur additional indebtedness, resulting in increased leverage. Any significant acquisition may result in a material weakening of the Company’s financial position and a material increase in the Company’s cost of borrowings. Acquisitions also may require the Company to issue additional equity, resulting in dilution to existing stockholders. This additional financing for acquisitions and capital expenditures may not be available on terms acceptable or favorable to the Company. Acquired businesses may not achieve anticipated results, and could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company also periodically reviews its existing businesses to determine if they are consistent with the Company’s strategy. The Company has sold, and may sell in the future, business units and product lines, which may result in either a gain or loss on disposition. 12 The Company’s acquisition strategy exposes it to risks. The Company may not be able to consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms or, if any acquisitions are consummated, to satisfactorily integrate these acquired businesses. The Company’s ability to grow by acquisition is dependent upon, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and operating results, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, the potential amortization of acquired intangible assets, the potential impairment of goodwill and the potential loss of key customers or employees of acquired companies. Goodwill Could Be Impaired in the Future In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a non-cash charge of $12,936,000 at DTI (relating to its Miltec reporting unit) for the impairment of goodwill. The test as of December 31, 2009 indicated that the book value of Miltec exceeded the fair value of the business. The impairment charge was primarily driven by reductions in the U.S. Government’s budgetary forecast and funding levels in the military markets resulting in declines in the engineering services business from lower RDT&E budgets, reduced demand for specific engineering services as a result of increases in government in-sourcing and reduced Congressional earmarks. As a result of these market changes, the Company lowered its forecasted multiyear sales and cash flow analyses developed in 2008. The charge reduced goodwill recorded in connection with the acquisition of Miltec and does not impact the company’s normal business operations. In assessing the recoverability of the Company’s goodwill at December 31, 2009, management was required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions included that during the next several years the Company will make improvements in manufacturing efficiency, achieve reductions in operating costs, and obtain increases in sales and backlog. Due to many variables inherent in the estimation of a business’s fair value and the relative size of the Company’s recorded goodwill, differences in estimates and assumptions may have a material effect on the results of the Company’s impairment analysis. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not realized in the future, or if market multiples decline the Company may be required to record an additional impairment charge for the goodwill. The goodwill of the Company was $100,442,000 at December 31, 2009. Significant Consolidation in the Aerospace Industry Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and Financial Results The aerospace industry is experiencing significant consolidation, including the Company’s customers, competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among the Company’s customers may result in delays in the award of new contracts and losses of existing business. Consolidation among the Company’s competitors may result in larger competitors with greater resources and market share, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete successfully. Consolidation among the Company’s suppliers may result in fewer sources of supply and increased cost to the Company. The Company’s Failure to Meet Quality or Delivery Expectations of Customers Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business and Financial Results The Company’s customers have increased, and are expected to increase further in the future, their expectations with respect to the on-time delivery and quality of the Company’s products. In some cases, the Company does not presently satisfy these customer expectations, 13 particularly with respect to on-time delivery. If the Company fails to meet the quality or delivery expectations of its customers, this failure could lead to the loss of one or more significant customers of the Company. Environmental Liabilities Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Results The Company is subject to various environmental laws and regulations. The Company’s DAS subsidiary has been directed by government environmental agencies to investigate and take corrective action for groundwater contamination at two of its facilities. DAS is also a potentially responsible party at certain sites at which it previously disposed of hazardous wastes. There can be no assurance that future developments, lawsuits and administrative actions, and liabilities relating to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or cash flows. The DAS chemical milling business uses various acid and alkaline solutions in the chemical milling process, resulting in potential environmental hazards. Despite existing waste recovery systems and continuing capital expenditures for waste reduction and management, at least for the immediate future, this business will remain dependent on the availability and cost of remote hazardous waste disposal sites or other alternative methods of disposal. Product Liability Claims in Excess of Insurance Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Results and Financial Condition The Company faces potential liability for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of products designed or manufactured by the Company. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance, any material product liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Damage or Destruction of the Company’s Facilities Caused by Earthquake or Other Causes Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Financial Results and Financial Condition Although the Company maintains standard property casualty insurance covering its properties, the Company does not carry any earthquake insurance because of the cost of such insurance. Most of the Company’s properties are located in Southern California, an area subject to frequent and sometimes severe earthquake activity. Even if covered by insurance, any significant damage or destruction of the Company’s facilities could result in the inability to meet customer delivery schedules and may result in the loss of customers and significant additional costs to the Company. As a result, any significant damage or destruction of the Company’s properties could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Terrorist Attacks May Adversely Impact the Company’s Operations There can be no assurance that the current world political and military tensions, or the United States military actions, will not lead to acts of terrorism and civil disturbances in the United States or elsewhere. These attacks may strike directly at the physical facilities of the Company, its suppliers or its customers. Such attacks could have an adverse impact on the Company’s domestic and international sales, supply chain, production capabilities, insurance premiums or ability to purchase insurance, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the consequences of terrorist attacks and armed conflicts are unpredictable, and their long-term effects upon the Company are uncertain. 14 The Company Is Dependent on Its Ability to Attract and Retain Key Personnel The Company’s success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain key engineering, technical and managerial personnel. The Company faces competition for management, engineering and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Therefore, the Company may not be able to retain its existing management and other key personnel, or be able to fill new management, engineering and technical positions created as a result of expansion or turnover of existing personnel. The loss of members of the Company’s senior management group, or key engineering and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Stock-Based Compensation Expense Could Change Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based compensation requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the stock-based compensation awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based compensation awards represent management’s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management’s judgment. As a result, if factors change or if the Company was to use different assumptions, stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and only recognize expense for those shares expected to vest. If the actual forfeiture rate is materially different from the estimated forfeiture rate, the stock-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what has been recorded in the current period. Effective Income Tax Rate Could Change The Company’s effective income tax rate for 2009, 2008 and 2007, was approximately 26%, 23% and 28%, respectively, compared to the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% and state income tax rates ranging from 6% to 9%, for each of the years. The Company’s effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rates in recent years primarily due to the benefit of research and development tax credits (which currently has not been extended through 2010), the reduction of tax reserves and the deduction for qualified domestic production activities. The effective tax rate for the Company could be significantly higher in the future than it has been in recent years due to changes in the Company’s level or sources of income, changes in the Company’s spending, eligibility for research and development tax credits, and changes in tax laws. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 