ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be affected by known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors. Any of these risks, uncertainties and other factors could cause the Company’s future financial results to differ materially from recent financial results or from currently anticipated future financial results. In addition to those noted elsewhere in this report, the Company is subject to the following risks and uncertainties: Risks Related to the LaBarge Acquisition The acquisition of LaBarge presents risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those expressed in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: (1) the interest rate on any borrowings incurred to finance the LaBarge acquisition and operations of Ducommun and its subsidiaries; (2) risks that the acquisition disrupts current plans and operations and the potential difficulties in employee retention; (3) difficulties integrating LaBarge’s business, operations and employees into Ducommun’s business and operations; (4) the inability to recognize the benefits of the acquisition, including any potential synergies, growth, cost savings or accretive value; (5) the inability to maintain current customer and supplier relationships following the acquisition; (6) the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the acquisition and the actual terms of certain financings that were obtained for the acquisition; and (7) the impact of the indebtedness incurred to finance the consummation of the acquisition. The anticipated benefits of the LaBarge Acquisition may not be fully realized and may take longer to realize than expected, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The LaBarge acquisition involves the integration of LaBarge’s operations with our existing operations, and there are uncertainties and challenges inherent with the integration of LaBarge’s business into our operations which may cause the anticipated benefits of the acquisition not being fully realized or taking longer to realize than expected. We will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating LaBarge’s operations into our operations. Delays or unexpected difficulties in the integration process could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. Issues that must be addressed in integrating LaBarge’s operations include, among other things: • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures; 12 Table of Contents • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • consolidating sales and marketing operations; • retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; • retaining key employees; • identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating LaBarge’s operations into our operations. Even if we are able to integrate LaBarge’s operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies that we expect or the achievement of these benefits within a reasonable period of time. In addition, we may not have discovered during the due diligence process, and we may not have discovered prior to closing, all known and unknown factors regarding LaBarge that could produce unintended and unexpected consequences for us. Undiscovered factors could result in us incurring financial liabilities, which could be material, and in us not achieving the expected benefits from the LaBarge acquisition within our desired time frames, if at all. LaBarge may have liabilities that are not known, probable or estimable at this time. As a result of the acquisition, LaBarge became our wholly-owned subsidiary, and we therefore effectively assumed all of its liabilities, whether or not asserted. There could be unasserted claims or assessments that we failed or were unable to discover or identify in the course of performing due diligence investigations of LaBarge. In addition, there may be liabilities that are neither probable nor estimable at this time which may become probable and estimable in the future. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may learn additional information about LaBarge that adversely affects us, such as unknown, unasserted or contingent liabilities and issues relating to compliance with applicable laws. We incurred significant costs in connection with the acquisition which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We incurred approximately $30.1 million in fees and expenses in connection with the acquisition and may incur a number of other costs associated with integrating LaBarge’s operations into our operations, which cannot be estimated accurately at this time. Additional unanticipated costs may also be incurred as we integrate LaBarge’s operations in our business. Consequently, we may incur material charges in subsequent quarters to reflect additional costs associated with the acquisition. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as 13 Table of Contents well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of LaBarge into our operations, may offset incremental transaction and transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our integration efforts. In addition, while we expect to benefit from leveraging distribution channels and brand names across both companies, we cannot assure that we will achieve such benefits. If the benefits of the acquisition do not exceed the costs of integrating the business of LaBarge into our business, our financial results may be adversely affected. Integrating our business with that of LaBarge may divert our management’s attention away from operations. Successful integration of our and LaBarge’s operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on our management and other internal resources. The diversion of management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm our business, financial conditions and operating results. Failure to retain key employees could diminish the anticipated benefits of the LaBarge acquisition. The success of the LaBarge acquisition will depend in part upon the retention of personnel critical to the LaBarge business due to, for example, their technical skills or management expertise. Ducommun and LaBarge, while similar, do not have the same corporate cultures, and some LaBarge employees may not want to work for us. If we are unable to retain LaBarge personnel that are critical to the successful integration and future operation of our company, we could face disruptions in operations; loss of existing LaBarge customers, key information and expertise or know-how; and unanticipated additional recruiting and training costs. In addition, the loss of key personnel could diminish the benefits of the LaBarge Acquisition actually achieved by us. Risks Related to Our Business Aerospace markets are cyclical. Both the aerospace and non-aerospace markets in which we sell our products are cyclical and have experienced periodic declines. Our sales are, therefore, unpredictable and tend to fluctuate based on a number of factors, including economic conditions and developments affecting the industries and the customers served. We depend heavily upon a concentrated base of customers which are subject to unique risks, and a significant reduction in sales to any of our major customers, or the loss of a major customer, could have a material impact on our financial results. In fiscal year 2011, approximately 19% of Ducommun’s sales were for Boeing commercial and military aircraft programs, 9% of our sales were for Raytheon military aircraft programs, 5% of our sales were for United Technologies (Sikorsky Black Hawk helicopter) aircraft programs, 5% of our sales were to Spirit AeroSystems for various commercial programs, and 3.9% of our sales were to Owens-Illinois on various capital equipment programs. Any 14 Table of Contents significant change in production rates by these customers would have a material effect on our results of operations and cash flows. There is no guarantee that our current significant customers will continue to buy products from us at current levels, and that we will retain any or all of our existing customers, or that we will be able to form new relationships with customers upon the loss of one or more of our existing customers. This risk may be further complicated by pricing pressures, intense competition prevalent in our industry and other factors. The loss of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we generally make sales under purchase orders and contracts that are subject to cancellation, modification or rescheduling. Changes in the economic environment and the financial condition of the industries we serve could result in customer requests for rescheduling or cancellation of contractual orders. Some of our contracts have specific provisions relating to schedule and performance, and failure to deliver in accordance with such provisions could result in cancellations, modifications, rescheduling and/or penalties, in some cases at the customers’ convenience and without prior notice. While we have normally recovered our direct and indirect costs, if we experience such cancellations, modifications, or rescheduling that cannot be replaced in a timely fashion, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. A significant portion of our business depends upon government spending. We derive a significant portion of our business from contracts related to orders for or associated with the U.S. Government. In 2011 approximately 52% of Ducommun’s sales were derived from military and space markets. Accordingly, the success of our business depends upon government spending, which, among other factors, is influenced by: • changes in fiscal policies or decreases in available government funding, including budgetary constraints affecting federal government spending generally, or specific departments or agencies in particular; • the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; • changes in political or social attitudes with respect to security and defense issues; • changes in federal government programs or requirements, including the increased use of small business providers; • increases in the federal government initiatives related to in-sourcing; • changes in or delays related to government restrictions on the export of defense articles and services, as a result of greater volatility in foreign economic and political environments or otherwise; • federal government shutdowns (such as that which occurred during the federal government’s 1996 fiscal year) and other potential delays or changes in the government appropriations process; 15 Table of Contents • general economic conditions; and • delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. These and other factors could cause the government and government agencies, or prime contractors that use us as a subcontractor, to reduce their purchases under existing contracts, to exercise their rights to terminate contracts at-will or to abstain from exercising options to renew contracts, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain U.S. Government programs in which we participate may extend for several years; however, these programs are typically funded annually. Changes in the government’s strategy and priorities may affect our existing programs and future opportunities. Our government contracts and related orders with the U.S. Government are subject to cancellation, or delay, if appropriations for subsequent performance periods are not made. In addition, we anticipate that the U.S. Department of Defense budget will be under pressure as the current administration is faced with competing national priorities. The termination of funding for existing or new U.S. Government programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency. The accuracy and appropriateness of certain costs and expenses used to substantiate our direct and indirect costs for the U.S. Government are subject to extensive regulation and audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, an arm of the Department of Defense. Such audits and reviews could result in adjustments to our contract costs and profitability. We have recorded contract net sales based upon costs expected to be realized upon final audit. However, we do not know the outcome of any future audits and adjustments may be required to reduce net sales or profits upon completion and final negotiation of audits. If any audit or review were to uncover inaccurate costs or improper activities, we could be subject to penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from conducting future business with the U.S. Government. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Federal government contracts contain provisions giving government customers a variety of rights that are unfavorable to us and the OEMs to whom we provide products and services, including the ability to terminate a contract at any time for convenience. As noted above, we derive a significant portion of our net sales from subcontracts under federal government prime contracts. A portion of our net sales is also derived from direct contracts with the federal government. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow the government to: • terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default; • reduce orders under or otherwise modify contracts or subcontracts; 16 Table of Contents • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency as a result of a finding of an organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors; • subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest; • claim rights in products and systems produced by us; and • control or prohibit the export of the products and related services we offer. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, the counterparty with whom we have contracted on a subcontract may terminate its contract with us. As a result of any such termination, whether on a direct government contract or subcontract, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the U.S. Government terminates a direct contract with us for default, we may not even recover those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Contracts with foreign governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer. In addition, the U.S. Government is typically required to open all programs to competitive bidding and, therefore, may not automatically renew any of its prime contracts. If one or more of our government prime or subcontracts is terminated or cancelled, our failure to replace sales generated from such contracts would result in lower sales and have an adverse effect on our earnings, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our contracts with the U.S. Government are classified which may limit investor insight into portions of our business. We derive a portion of our net sales from programs with the U.S. Government that are subject to security restrictions (classified programs), which preclude the dissemination of information that is classified for national security purposes. We are limited in our ability to provide details about these classified programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, you might have less insight into our classified programs than our other businesses and therefore less ability to fully evaluate the risks related to our classified business. 17 Table of Contents We face risks associated with competitive pricing pressures, which could cause price reductions, reduced profitability and loss of market share. The aerospace and electronics manufacturing service (EMS) industries are highly competitive and competitive pressures may adversely affect us. In both of these industries we compete worldwide with a number of domestic and international companies that have substantially greater manufacturing, purchasing, marketing and financial resources than us. In the electronic manufacturing service industry, many of our customers have the in-house capability to fulfill their manufacturing requirements. Our larger competitors may be able to vie more effectively for very large-scale contracts. Our larger competitors also may be able to provide clients with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past performance on large-scale contracts, geographic presence, price and availability of key professional personnel. Our competitors may have established relationships among themselves or with third parties, including through mergers and acquisitions that could increase their ability to address customer needs. They may establish new relationships and new competitors or competitive alliances may emerge. If we are unable to successfully compete for new business, our net sales growth and operating margins may decline. In addition, we are exposed to the introduction of lower priced competitive capabilities, significant price reductions by competitors or significant pricing pressures from customers. We are experiencing competitive pricing pressures. These pressures have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Further, there can be no assurance that competition from existing or potential competitors in other segments of our business will not have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If we do not continue to compete effectively and win contracts, our future business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to meet our financial obligations may be materially compromised. We use estimates when bidding on contracts and may not have the ability to control, and may not accurately estimate, costs associated with performing under fixed-price contracts. We therefore face risks of cost overruns and losses on fixed-price contracts. In addition, when determining the cost of sales to be recognized under certain long-term contracts, we are required to estimate total costs to complete the contract. We sell many of our products under firm, fixed-price contracts providing for a fixed price for the products regardless of the production costs incurred by us. In many cases, we make multi-year firm, fixed-price commitments to our customers, without assurance that our anticipated production costs will be achieved. Contract bidding and accounting require judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract net sales and costs and making assumptions for scheduling and technical issues. For example, assumptions have to be made regarding the length of time to complete the contract, because costs include expected increases in prices for materials and wages, which can be particularly difficult to estimate for contracts with new customers. Similarly, assumptions have to be made regarding the future impact of our efficiency initiatives and cost reduction efforts. In order to realize a profit on these contracts, we must, when we bid these contracts, accurately estimate our costs to complete the contracts. Our failure to accurately estimate these costs can result in cost overruns, which result in reduced or lost profits. Because of the significance of the judgments and estimates involved, it is possible that materially 18 Table of Contents different amounts could be obtained if different assumptions were used or if the underlying circumstances were to change. For example, if we experience manufacturing inefficiencies, start-up costs or increases in the cost of labor, materials, outside processing, overhead and other factors, our production costs may be adversely affected. Therefore, any changes in our underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, we also face the risk of increased costs due to a rise in the prices of raw materials and components used in the manufacture of our products, including aluminum, titanium, steel and carbon fibers. Although these materials are generally available from a number of vendors and are generally in adequate supply, we have, from time to time, experienced increases in lead times for, and deterioration in availability of, aluminum, titanium and certain other materials. Moreover, certain components, supplies and raw materials for our operations are purchased from single sources. In such instances, we strive to develop alternative sources and design modifications to minimize the potential for business interruptions. Risks associated with operating and conducting our business outside the United States could adversely impact us. We have facilities in Thailand and Mexico and derive a portion of our net sales from direct foreign sales. Further, our customers may derive portions of their sales to non-U.S. customers. As a result, we are subject to the risks of conducting and operating our business internationally, including: • political instability; • local economic conditions; • economic and geopolitical developments and conditions; • foreign government regulatory requirements; • domestic and international government policies, including requirements to expend a portion of program funds locally and governmental industrial cooperation requirements; • delays in placing orders; • the uncertainty of the ability of non-U.S. customers to finance purchases; • uncertainties and restrictions concerning the availability of funding credit or guarantees; • compliance with a variety of international laws, as well as U.S. laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; 19 Table of Contents • imposition of taxes, export controls, tariffs, embargoes and other trade restrictions; and • the potentially limited availability of skilled labor in proximity to our facilities. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict, any one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our products and processes are subject to risks from changes in technology. Our products and processes are subject to risks of obsolescence as a result of changes in technology. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our and our customers’ ability to maintain and enhance technological capabilities, develop and market manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs and successfully anticipate or respond to technological advances in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. To address this risk, we invest in product design and development, and undertake capital expenditures. There can be no guarantee that our product design and development efforts will be successful, or that funds required to be invested in product design and development or incurred as capital expenditures will not increase materially in the future. Many of our contracts require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, require state-of-the-art manufacturing expertise, or are dependent upon factors beyond our control. We manufacture and assist in the design of technologically advanced and innovative products that are applied by our customers in a variety of environments. Problems and delays in development or delivery of our products and services, which could prevent us from meeting our contractual requirements, include changes in our customers’ required designs, acceptance of the customers’ designs in the marketplace, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions, materials and components, as well as the timing of purchase orders placed or required delivery dates, variation in demand for customers’ products, federal government funding, regulatory changes affecting customers’ industries, customer efforts to manage their inventory, changes in customers’ manufacturing strategies and customers’ technical problems or issues. Any such problems or delays could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We face risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions of businesses. A key element of our long-term strategy has been growth through acquisitions. We are continuously reviewing and actively pursuing other acquisitions. Acquisitions, including the LaBarge Acquisition, may require us to incur additional indebtedness, resulting in increased leverage. Any significant acquisition, including the LaBarge acquisition, may result in a material weakening of our financial position and a material increase in our cost of borrowings. Acquisitions also may require us to issue additional equity, resulting in dilution to existing stockholders. This additional financing for acquisitions and capital expenditures may not be available on terms acceptable or favorable to us. Acquired businesses, including LaBarge, may not achieve anticipated results, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also periodically review our existing 20 Table of Contents businesses to determine if they are consistent with our strategy. We have sold, and may sell in the future, business units and product lines, which may result in either a gain or loss upon disposition. Our acquisition strategy exposes us to risks. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms or, if any acquisitions are consummated, to satisfactorily integrate these acquired businesses. Our ability to grow by acquisition is dependent on, among other factors, the availability of suitable acquisition candidates. Growth by acquisition involves risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired companies, the potential amortization of acquired intangible assets, potential impairment of goodwill and the potential loss of key customers or employees of acquired companies Goodwill and/or other intangible assets could be impaired in the future, resulting in substantial losses and write-downs. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, management is required to make certain critical estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include improvements in manufacturing efficiency, reductions in operating costs and obtain increases in sales and backlog. Due to many variables inherent in the estimation of a business’s fair value and the relative size of our recorded goodwill, differences in estimates and assumptions may have a material effect on the results of our impairment analysis. If any of these or other estimates and assumptions are not realized in the future, or if market multiples decline, we may be required to record an additional impairment charge for goodwill. Ducommun’s goodwill as of December 31, 2011 was $163.8 million, or 20.3 % of total assets. Significant consolidation in the aerospace and defense industry could adversely affect our business and financial results. The aerospace and defense industry is experiencing significant consolidation, including our customers, competitors and suppliers. Consolidation among our customers may result in delays in the award of new contracts and losses of existing business. Consolidation among our competitors may result in larger competitors with greater resources and market share, which could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully. Consolidation among our suppliers may result in fewer sources of supply and increased cost to us. Our failure to meet the quality or delivery expectations of customers could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our ability to deliver our products and services on schedule is dependent upon a variety of factors, including execution of internal performance plans, availability of raw materials, internal and supplier produced parts and structures, conversion of raw materials into parts and assemblies and performance of suppliers and others. Our customers expect on-time delivery and quality with respect to our products. In some cases, we do not presently satisfy these customer expectations, particularly with respect to on-time delivery. If we fail to meet the quality or delivery expectations of our customers, this failure could lead to the loss of one or more significant customers. 21 Table of Contents We rely on numerous third-party suppliers for components used in our production process. Certain of these components are available only from single sources or a limited number of suppliers, or similarly, customers’ specifications may require us to obtain components from a single source or certain suppliers. These and other factors, including the loss of a critical supplier, could cause disruptions or cost inefficiencies in our operations compared to our competitors that have greater direct purchasing power, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, from time to time, we have experienced shortages of some of the components that we use in production. These shortages can result from strong demand for those components or from problems experienced by suppliers and can result in delays in production, which may prevent us from making scheduled shipments to customers. Our inability to make scheduled shipments could cause us to experience a reduction in sales and an increase in inventory levels and costs, and could adversely affect relationships with existing and prospective customers. Component shortages may also increase our cost of goods sold because we may be required to pay higher prices for components in short supply and redesign or reconfigure products to accommodate substitute components. As a result, component shortages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Internal system or service failures could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide the products and related services we offer to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by projects to improve our information technology systems, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, intruders or hackers, computer viruses, natural disasters, power shortages or terrorist attacks. Any such failures could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and fall below expectations, as well as make future results difficult to predict. We depend on contract awards from our customers, the size and timing of which vary from period to period. Accordingly, our results of operations have varied historically and may continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period, including on a quarterly basis. Consequently, results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the operating results that may be experienced in any future period. Factors that may adversely impact our quarterly and annual results include, but are not limited to, the following: • general economic conditions; • changes in sales mix and volume to customers; • changes in delivery schedules of our customers and their customers; • changes in availability and cost of components used by us in our products and services; • volume of customer orders relative to our production capacity; • market demand and acceptance of our customers’ products; • price erosion within the EMS marketplace; • a downturn in the aerospace and defense markets; • the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services by our competitors; and • capital equipment requirements needed to remain technologically competitive. We may not have the ability to renew facilities leases on terms favorable to us and relocation of operations presents risks due to business interruption. Certain of our manufacturing facilities and offices are leased and have lease terms that expire between 2012 and 2020. The majority of these leases provide us with the opportunity to renew the leases at our option and, if renewed, provide that rent will be equal to the fair market rental rate at the time of renewal, which could be significantly higher than our current rental rates. We may be unable to offset these cost increases by charging more for our products and services. Furthermore, continued economic conditions may continue to negatively impact and create greater pressure in the commercial real estate market, causing higher incidences of landlord default and/or lender foreclosure of properties, including properties occupied by us. While we maintain certain non-disturbance rights in most cases, it is not certain that such rights will in all cases be upheld and our continued right of occupancy in such instances is potentially jeopardized. An occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 23 Table of Contents Additionally, if we choose to move any of our operations, those operations will be subject to additional relocation costs and associated risks of business interruption. Our operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations and restrictions, and failure to comply with these laws, regulations and restrictions could subject us to liability for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting and various other fines and penalties. Our contracts and operations are subject to various laws and regulations. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government, and subcontracts with other prime contractors, are subject to numerous laws and regulations which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. These laws and regulations include: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; • the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission, or causing the submission of, a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; • the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts; • the Procurement Integrity Act, which requires evaluation of ethical conflicts surrounding procurement activity and establishing certain employment restrictions for individuals who participate in the procurement process; and • the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, which authorizes the President to control the export and import of defense articles and defense services. Noncompliance found by any one agency could result in fines, penalties, debarment or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. Given our dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, the U.S. Government may revise its procurement practices or adopt new contract rules and regulations, at any time. The U.S. Government may also face restrictions or pressure regarding the type and amount of services it may obtain from private contractors. Congressional legislation and initiatives dealing with mitigation of potential conflicts of interest, procurement reform and shifts in the buying practices of U.S. Government agencies resulting 24 Table of Contents from those proposals, such as increased usage of fixed-price contracts which transfer some risks from the U.S. Government to the performing contractors, could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or subcontracts or renew contracts or subcontracts under which we currently perform when those contracts are put up for recompetition. Any new contracting methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future net sales. In addition, our international operations subject us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Changes in regulations or political environments may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in certain liabilities and could possibly result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The occurrence of litigation in which we could be named as a defendant is unpredictable. From time to time, we and our subsidiaries, including LaBarge, are involved in various legal and other proceedings that are incidental to the conduct of our business. While we believe no current proceedings, if adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, no assurances can be given. Any such claims may divert financial and management resources that would otherwise be used to benefit our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Environmental liabilities could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, storage, transport, discharge and disposal of hazardous chemicals used during our manufacturing process. We do not carry insurance for these potential environmental liabilities. Any failure by us to comply with present or future regulations could subject us to future liabilities or the suspension of production, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Moreover, some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can impose joint and several liability retroactively regardless of fault or the legality of the activities giving rise to the contamination. The DAS chemical milling business uses various acid and alkaline solutions in the chemical milling process, resulting in potential environmental hazards. Despite existing waste recovery systems and continuing capital expenditures for waste reduction and management, at least for the immediate future, this business will remain dependent upon the availability and cost of remote hazardous waste disposal sites or other alternative methods of disposal. 25 Table of Contents Our DAS subsidiary has been directed by government environmental agencies to investigate and take corrective action for groundwater contamination at two of its facilities. DAS is also a potentially responsible party at certain sites at which it previously disposed of hazardous wastes. There can be no assurance that future developments, lawsuits and administrative actions and liabilities relating to environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. In addition, certain of our customers must be in compliance with the European standard, Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS Directive 2002-95-EC), for all products shipped to the European marketplace. The purpose of the directive is to restrict the use of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment and to contribute to the environmentally sound recovery and disposal of electrical and electronic equipment waste. In addition, electronic component manufacturers must produce electronic components that are lead-free. Our Pittsburgh operation has implemented lead-free wave solder and reflow systems. We rely on numerous third-party suppliers for components used in our production process and there can be no assurances these suppliers will comply with this standard. Noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Product liability claims in excess of insurance could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. We face potential liability for personal injury or death as a result of the failure of products designed or manufactured by us. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance (including aircraft product liability insurance), any material product liability not covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Damage or destruction of our facilities caused by storms, earthquake or other causes could adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. We have operations located in regions of the U.S. that may be exposed to damaging storms, earthquakes and other natural disasters. Although we maintain standard property casualty insurance covering our properties and may be able to recover costs associated with certain natural disasters through insurance, we do not carry any earthquake insurance because of the cost of such insurance. Many of our properties are located in Southern California, an area subject to earthquake activity. Our California facilities generated $240.4 million in net sales during fiscal year 2011. Even if covered by insurance, any significant damage or destruction of our facilities due to storms, earthquakes or other natural disasters could result in the inability to meet customer delivery schedules and may result in the loss of customers and significant additional costs to us. Thus, any significant damage or destruction of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain key engineering, technical and managerial personnel (both at the executive and at the plant level). We face competition for management, engineering and technical personnel from other companies and 26 Table of Contents organizations. Therefore, we may not be able to retain our existing management and other key personnel, or be able to fill new management, engineering and technical positions created as a result of expansion or turnover of existing personnel. The continued growth and expansion of our contract manufacturing business will require us to identify, hire, train and retain additional skilled and experienced personnel. Also, critical to ongoing operations at three of our facilities are the successful negotiation of collective bargaining agreements and the avoidance of organized work stoppages. The loss of members of our senior management group, or key engineering and technical personnel, the failure to meet recruitment and retention objectives or the inability to efficiently and successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements could negatively impact our ability to grow and remain competitive in the future and could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Labor disruptions by our employees could adversely affect our business. We employ approximately 3,541 people. Our DAS subsidiary is a party to a collective bargaining agreement, expiring July 1, 2012, with labor unions at its Monrovia, California facility covering 273 full-time hourly employees at year end 2011. Our Ducommun LaBarge Technologies, Inc. subsidiary is party to collective bargaining agreements, expiring January 11, 2016, at its two Joplin, Missouri facilities covering 243 people. Although we have not experienced any material labor-related work stoppage and consider our relations with our employees to be good, labor stoppages may occur in the future. If the unionized workers were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements with the unions or if other employees were to become unionized, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations, higher ongoing labor costs and possible loss of customer contracts, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Enacted and proposed changes in securities laws and regulations have increased our costs and may continue to increase our costs in the future. In recent years, there have been several changes in laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and various other new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, expands federal regulation of corporate governance matters and imposes requirements on publicly-held companies, including us, to, among other things, provide stockholders with a periodic advisory vote on executive compensation and also adds compensation committee reforms and enhanced pay-for-performance disclosures. While some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are effective upon enactment, others will be implemented upon the SEC’s adoption of related rules and regulations. The scope and timing of the adoption of such rules and regulations is uncertain and accordingly, the cost of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act is also uncertain. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a 27 Table of Contents diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. Further, compliance with new and existing laws, rules, regulations and standards may make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. As a result of the LaBarge acquisition we currently have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $392.2 million. Upon the satisfaction of certain conditions including, but not limited to, the agreement of lenders to provide such facilities or commitments, we also have the option to add one or more incremental term loan facilities or increase commitments under our New Revolving Credit Facility by an aggregate amount of up to $75.0 million. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as: • refinancing or restructuring our debt; • selling assets; • reducing or delaying scheduled expansions and capital investments; or • seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that we would be able to enter into these alternative financing plans on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Moreover, any alternative financing plans that we may be required to undertake would still not guarantee that we would be able to meet our debt obligations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, including our obligations under the Notes, or to obtain alternative financing, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our high level of debt could have important consequences to us and to the holders of the Notes, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes and our other debt; • the occurrence of an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes or our other indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing the Notes or agreements governing other indebtedness, which event of default could result in acceleration of 28 Table of Contents the indebtedness outstanding under the indenture and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, our other indebtedness and could permit our lenders to foreclose on any of our assets securing such debt; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our New Credit Facilities, bear interest at variable rates, which could further adversely impact our cash flows; • limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • preventing us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase all Notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which failure to repurchase would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes; • placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; and • increasing our cost of borrowing. The occurrence of any one of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of our outstanding debt. We require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash depends upon many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt, including the Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures and working capital increases, will depend upon our ability to generate cash in the future. Since the consummation of the acquisition, our debt service requirements have increased significantly. Our ability to generate cash is subject to economic, 29 Table of Contents financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond our control. While we expect to meet all of our financial obligations, we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, including the Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The covenants in our New Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility and may limit our ability to make payments on the Notes. Our New Credit Facilities and the indenture governing the Notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability, among other things, to: • create liens; • incur additional debt, guarantee debt and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends; • make redemptions and repurchases of certain capital stock; • make capital expenditures and specified types of investments; • prepay, redeem or repurchase subordinated debt; • sell certain assets or engage in acquisitions, mergers and consolidations; • change the nature of our business; • engage in affiliate transactions; and • restrict dividends or other payments from restricted subsidiaries. In the event that a certain minimum amount is borrowed and outstanding under the New Revolving Credit Facility, for so long as any such amount is outstanding, we will be required to comply with a total leverage ratio. Furthermore, our consolidated EBITDA, as defined by our debt facilities, as of the end of any fiscal quarter on a trailing four-quarter basis is not permitted to be less than $50.0 million. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, pursue our business strategies and otherwise conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with such covenants. These restrictions also limit our ability to obtain future financings to withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general. In addition, complying 30 Table of Contents with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the Notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. A breach of any covenant in the New Credit Facilities or the agreements and indentures governing any other indebtedness that we may have outstanding from time to time, including the indenture governing the Notes, would result in a default under that agreement or indenture after any applicable grace periods. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of the debt outstanding under the agreement and in a default with respect to, and an acceleration of, the debt outstanding under other debt agreements. If that occurs, we may not be able to make all of the required payments or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such debt. Even if new financing were available at that time, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us or terms as favorable as our current agreements. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to make the change of control offer required by the indenture governing the Notes. We may be unable to purchase the Notes upon a change of control, as defined in the indenture governing the Notes. Upon a change of control, we will be required to offer to purchase all of the Notes then outstanding for cash at 101% of the principal amount on the date of purchase plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes purchased to the date of purchase. If a change of control were to occur, we may not have sufficient funds to pay the change of control purchase price and we may be required to secure third-party financing to do so. However, we may not be able to obtain such financing on commercially reasonable terms, on terms acceptable to us or at all. A change of control under the indenture governing the Notes may also result in an event of default under our New Credit Facilities which may cause the acceleration of indebtedness outstanding thereunder, in which case, proceeds of collateral pledged to secure borrowings thereunder would be used to repay such borrowings before we repay the Notes. In addition, our future indebtedness may also contain restrictions on our ability to repurchase the Notes upon certain events, including transactions that could constitute a change of control under the indenture governing the Notes. Our failure to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the Notes and would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We face risks related to rating agency downgrades. If the rating agencies reduce the rating on the Notes in the future, the market price of the Notes would be adversely affected. In addition, if any of our other outstanding debt is rated and subsequently downgraded, raising capital will become more difficult, borrowing costs under our New Revolving Credit Facility and other future borrowings may increase and the market price of the Notes may decrease. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 31 Table of Contents 