ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The Company encourages investors to carefully consider the risks described below and other information contained in this document when considering an investment decision with respect to he Company’s securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or that management currently deems immaterial, may also impair the Company’s business operations. Any of the events discussed in the risk factors below may occur. If one or more of these events do occur, business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In that instance, the trading price of the Company’s securities could decline, and investors might lose part or all of their investment. 5 Economic Conditions Similar to other retail businesses, the Company’s operations may be affected adversely by general economic conditions and events which result in reduced consumer spending in the markets served by its stores. Also, smaller communities where the Company’s stores are located may be dependent upon a few large employers or may be significantly affected by economic conditions in the industry upon which the community relies for its economic viability, such as the agricultural industry. This may make the Company’s stores more vulnerable to a downturn in a particular segment of the economy than the Company’s competitors, which operate in markets which are larger metropolitan areas where the local economy is more diverse. Competition The Company operates in the discount retail business, which is highly competitive. Although the Company prefers markets that don’t have direct competition from national or regional full-line discount stores, competition still exists. Even in non-competitive markets, the Company’s customers shop at retail discount stores and other retailers located in regional trade centers. The Company also competes for retail sales with other entities, such as mail order companies, specialty retailers, mass merchandisers, dollar stores, manufacturer’s outlets, and the internet. This competitive environment subjects the Company to the risk of reduced profitability because the Company may be forced to lower its prices, resulting in lower margins, in order to maintain its competitive position. Store Expansion The growth in the Company’s sales and operating net income depends to a substantial degree on its expansion program. This expansion strategy is dependent upon the Company’s ability to open and operate new stores effectively, efficiently, and on a profitable basis. The Company prefers to locate its ALCO stores in smaller retail markets where no competing full-line discount retail store is located within the primary trade area. The Company’s ability to timely open new stores and to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: availability of store locations, the ability to hire and train new store personnel, the ability to react to consumer needs and trends on a timely basis, and the availability of sufficient capital for expansion. Financing In the event we need additional financing, there can be no assurances that these funds will be available on a timely basis or on reasonable terms. Failure to obtain such financing could constrain our ability to operate or grow the business. In addition, any ratings downgrade of our securities, or any negative impacts on the credit market, generally, could negatively impact the cost or availability of capital. We believe operating cash flows and current credit facilities will be adequate to fund our working capital requirements, scheduled debt repayments, and to support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies. Information Technology The Company’s ability to utilize technology upgrades could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company depends on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed which could have a negative effect on our business. Government Regulation The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local government laws and regulations, including those relating to the development, construction and operation of the Company’s stores. The Company is also subject to laws governing its relationship with employees, including minimum wage requirements, laws and regulations relating to overtime, working and safety conditions, and citizenship requirements. Material increases in the cost of compliance with any applicable law or regulation and similar matters could materially and adversely affect the Company. Internal Control The Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes: maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that our receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The Company continues to refine and test its internal control over financial reporting processes. Quarterly Fluctuations Quarterly results of operations have historically fluctuated as a result of retail consumers purchasing patterns, with the highest quarter in terms of sales and profitability being the fourth quarter. Quarterly results of operations will likely continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of such patterns and may fluctuate due to the timing of new store openings. Stock Price No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in the Company’s stock price. Dependence on Officers The development of the Company’s business is largely dependent on the efforts of its current management team headed by Donny R. Johnson and four other executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Interest Rate Risk The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing requirements. Changes in interest rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. 6 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 