ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks, most of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to improve our operating results, working capital and cash flows, we may require additional capital to fund our business, the failure to obtain which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. If we are unable to improve our operating results, working capital and cash flows, we may require additional capital to fund our business. Our ability to make such improvements will depend on our ability to effectively implement one or more of the following: · Stabilizing sales for fiscal 2015; · Reducing our expenses and cash requirements; · Effective managing our inventory and reducing our inventory levels; · Effectively responding to changes in cash-flow, liquidity and cash needs; · Accessing debt or equity capital markets or other sources of funds to obtain any additional financing, if and when needed; · Adjusting our operating plans in response to changing conditions; and · Maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers, employees and sources of trade credit. If we are not successful in implementing the foregoing improvements and actions to the necessary degree, our future operating results and cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our working capital requirements, required payments on our indebtedness, and all of the other cash requirements of our business. Consequently, we may have to take actions such as substantially modifying our business plan to conserve cash, pursuing additional external liquidity sources, seeking additional debt or equity financing, further reducing or delaying capital expenditures, or restructuring our existing indebtedness. If we engage in financing or restructuring transactions to secure greater liquidity, the financings may be on terms that are expensive, restrictive to our business or financial flexibility, or dilutive to our stockholders. 6 Table of Contents If we cannot improve our operating results, working capital and cash flows or access additional capital, we may consider alternatives that could dilute or impair the value of our common stock. We may enter into various transactions to secure funding or modify our capital structure, which may include issuances of equity securities or incurrence of further indebtedness. Any debt securities or preferred stock we issue will have priority or liquidation rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of current holders of our common stock. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock may also be dilutive to our stockholders. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or the value of our common stock. In addition, there is a possibility that any financing or restructuring efforts may result in holders of our common stock receiving little or no value for their holdings and the holders of our existing or future indebtedness receiving a significant portion of, or all, the equity. We rely on trade credit for a substantial amount of our working capital, and any deterioration in our relationship with our trade creditors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We depend on extensions of credit from our suppliers to fund our working capital needs, including to purchase inventory. These trade creditors may make the terms of their credit more expensive or burdensome, or may discontinue the extension of credit in their sole discretion. If our trade creditors lose confidence in our credit worthiness, we may have to seek other sources of funding in order to support our operations. If we cannot secure such alternative financing, or if the terms of such alternative financing are unfavorable, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Our revolving credit facility contains provisions that could restrict our operations and our ability to obtain additional financing. In addition, our revolving credit facility is secured by a substantial amount of our property that may be subject to foreclosure or other remedies in the event of our default. In July of 2011 we entered into a revolving credit facility that is secured by substantially all our assets, including our inventory and credit card receivables. Our credit facility now provides for up to $130 million in revolving loans, subject to borrowing availability. Our revolving credit facility contains customary covenants and restrictions, which include limitations on additional indebtedness, prepayments, acquisition of assets, granting of liens, certain investments and payments of dividends and require our meeting specified financial covenants. These covenants and restrictions impose operating and financial limitations on us, which could result in reducing our liquidity, restricting our ability to enter into particular transactions, and to engage in other actions that we may believe are advisable for our business or finances. If an event of default under our credit facility occurs, our outstanding obligations thereunder could be declared immediately due and payable. If we cannot remedy the default or refinance our indebtedness, our lender could foreclose on or exercise other remedies with respect to the assets securing the revolving credit facility. The occurrence of an event of default could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity, including requiring us to seek protection under applicable laws protecting the rights of debtors. Decreases in customer discretionary spending may adversely affect our sales and profitability. The lingering economic recession may continue to negatively affect our customers’ discretionary spending and thereby may negatively affect our sales and profitability. The Company believes that many of the Company’s customers are on fixed or low incomes and may have limited discretionary spending. Furthermore, many of our customers may have experienced financial hardship as a result of job losses, foreclosures or their inability to obtain short-term financing, all of which may negatively affect their ability to shop in our stores and buy our products. Reductions in our customers’ discretionary spending could cause our customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to products sold by us that are less profitable than other product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover, greater markdowns on inventory, and a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. The Company is in an increasingly competitive industry. Due to the continued economic slowdown, the discount retail industry has become highly competitive. Although the Company prefers markets that don’t have direct competition from national or regional broad line retail stores, competition still exists. Even in non-competitive markets, the Company’s customers shop at broad line retail stores and other retailers located in regional trade centers. The Company also competes for retail sales with other entities, such as specialty retailers, mass merchandisers, and dollar stores. Furthermore, the retail industry continues to experience a trend towards internet sales and the Company faces increased competition from internet-based businesses. Some internet-based retailers may have an advantage because such businesses may not be required to collect and remit sales taxes in certain states, which can negatively impact the ability of store-based retailers, like the Company, to be competitive. This competitive environment subjects the Company to a risk of reduced profitability because every day lower prices and greater markdowns on inventory, which are required to maintain the Company’s position in the industry, may result in lower margins. Our competitors may also use competitive and costly marketing strategies which the Company may need to respond to in order to maintain its position in the industry. We are highly susceptible to the state of macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the United States. All of our stores are located within the United States, making our results highly dependent on U.S. consumer confidence and the health of the U.S. economy. A slowdown in the U.S. economy or other economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, inflation, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, interest rates, and tax rates, may affect our business adversely by reducing overall consumer spending or by causing customers to shift their spending to products other than those sold by us or to products sold by us that are less profitable than other product choices, all of which could result in lower net sales, decreases in inventory turnover or a reduction in profitability due to lower margins. In addition, a significant portion of our total sales is derived from stores located in these states: Kansas, Texas and Nebraska, resulting in further dependence on local economic conditions in these states. Deterioration in macroeconomic conditions and consumer confidence in the United States, particularly in Kansas, Texas or Nebraska, could negatively affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth or reduction in overall sales, and reducing gross margins. 7 Table of Contents We are vulnerable to cost increases, inflation and energy prices. Future increases in our costs, such as the cost of merchandise, shipping rates, and freight and fuel costs, may reduce our profitability. These cost changes may be the result of inflationary pressures or changes in foreign currency values versus the US dollar; especially with respect to countries whom produce the products we procure. A decline in the value of the US dollar, versus currencies of the countries that produce the product, will increase our cost of goods and may reduce our sales or profitability. Increases in other operating costs, including changes in energy prices, wage rates and utility costs, may increase our costs of goods or operating expenses and reduce our profitability. For example, increases in the cost of diesel fuel may result in an increase in transportation costs, which may increase our overall operating costs and possibly lower profitability. If we cannot effectively open new stores, our ability to improve our financial results will be adversely affected. The growth in the Company’s sales and operating income depends to a substantial degree on its expansion program. This expansion strategy is dependent upon the Company’s ability to open and operate new stores effectively, efficiently and on a profitable basis. The Company’s ability to open new stores timely and to expand into additional market areas depends in part on the following factors: availability of store locations, the ability to hire and train new store personnel, the ability to react to consumer needs and trends on a timely basis, and the availability of sufficient capital for expansion. The Company continually reviews underperforming stores to determine potential closures. As a result of closing underperforming stores, the Company may not be able to effectively absorb fixed overhead. If we are unable to access the capital markets or obtain bank credit, our growth plans, liquidity and results of operations could suffer. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced since fiscal 2008, could adversely affect the ability of lenders to meet their commitments. Our access to funds under our credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity, or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Constrained capital markets could threaten our liquidity and capital resources. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing other discretionary uses of cash. We believe operating cash flows and current credit facilities will be adequate to fund our working capital requirements, scheduled debt repayments and to support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies. If we cannot effectively implement or use information technology, our financial results and operations would be adversely affected. If we cannot effectively implement technology upgrades, it could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company depends on information systems to process transactions, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis. In conjunction with maintaining its core systems, the Company has evaluated and intends to increase its investment in technology to migrate various system applications over the course of the next 36 months. The initial investments occurred during fiscal year 2014 and will include its supply chain, stock ledger, and warehouse management systems, with anticipated implementation and migration beginning in 3-12 months. Thereafter, additional investments to migrate other system applications may be considered with potential implementation and migration beginning in 6-24 months. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information to be lost or delayed which could have a negative effect on our business. Changes in federal, state or local laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could increase our expenses and expose us to legal risks. Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations. Significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce (none of which is represented by unions as of the end of fiscal year 2014) could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. Examples of possible legislative changes impacting our relationship with our workforce include changes to minimum wage requirements and health care mandates. In addition, certain aspects of our business, such as credit card operations, are more heavily regulated than other areas. Changes in the regulatory environment regarding topics such as banking and consumer credit, privacy and information security, product safety or environmental protection, among others, could cause our expenses to increase. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, particularly wage and hour laws, we could be subject to legal risk, including governmental enforcement action and class action civil litigation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure to design, implement or maintain an adequate system of internal controls could adversely affect our ability to manage our business or detect fraud. The Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Internal control over financial reporting includes: maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation of the financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of our assets are made in accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements would be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The Company continues to refine and test its internal control over financial reporting processes. Our results are subject to seasonal variations. Quarterly results of operations have historically fluctuated as a result of retail consumers purchasing patterns, with the highest quarter in terms of sales and profitability being the fourth quarter. Quarterly results of operations will likely continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of such patterns and may fluctuate due to the timing of new store openings. 8 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile. No assurance can be given that operating results will not vary from quarter to quarter, and any fluctuations in quarterly operating results may result in volatility in the Company’s stock price. We are dependent on key personnel. The development of the Company’s business is largely dependent on the efforts of its current management team headed by Richard E. Wilson and three other executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more of these officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are exposed to interest rate risks. The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing requirements. Increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. If we fail to anticipate and respond quickly to changing consumer preferences, our sales, gross margin and profitability could suffer. A substantial part of our business is dependent on our ability to make trend-right decisions in apparel, home décor, seasonal offerings and other merchandise. Failure to accurately predict constantly changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and other lifestyles decisions could lead to lost sales, increased markdowns on inventory and adversely affect our results of operations. Interruptions in our supply chain could adversely affect our results. We are dependent on our vendors to supply merchandise in a timely and efficient manner. If a vendor fails to deliver on its commitments, whether due to financial difficulties or other reasons, we could experience merchandise shortages that could lead to lost sales. In addition, a large portion of our merchandise is sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the United States, with China as our single largest source. Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, the outbreak of pandemics, labor unrest, transport capacity and costs, port security or other events that could slow port activities and impact foreign trade are beyond our control and could disrupt our supply of merchandise and adversely affect our results of operations. Lack of availability of suitable locations in which to build new stores could slow our growth, and difficulty in executing plans for new stores, expansions and remodels could increase our costs and capital requirements. Our future growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to build new stores and expand and remodel existing stores in a manner that achieves appropriate returns on our capital investment. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. In addition, for many sites we are dependent on a third party developer’s ability to acquire land, obtain financing and secure the necessary zoning changes and permits for a larger project, of which our store may be one component. Turmoil in the financial markets has made it difficult for third party developers to obtain financing for new projects. Local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may affect our ability to find suitable locations and also influence the cost of constructing, expanding and remodeling our stores. Product safety concerns could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. If our merchandise offerings, including food, drug and children’s products, do not meet applicable safety standards or our guests’ expectations regarding safety, we could experience lost sales, experience increased costs and be exposed to legal and reputational risk. All of our vendors must comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety standards. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns, including food or drug contamination, could expose us to governmental enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety of the products we sell could cause our customers to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost sales. In those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our customers. Weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial condition. Weather conditions have impacted our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices. In past years, we have experienced severe weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, tornadoes and droughts in some states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for seasonal products, particularly during the winter season. Therefore, the weather can have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to protect the security of personal information about our customers, we could be subject to costly government enforcement actions or private litigation and our reputation could suffer. The nature of our experience involves the receipt and storage of personal information about our customers. If we experience a data security breach, we could be exposed to governmental enforcement actions and private litigation. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in our ability to protect their personal information, which could cause them to discontinue usage of our credit card products or stop shopping at our stores altogether. Such events could lead to lost future sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Healthcare reform legislation and regulations may negatively impact our business. In 2010, the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act” and the “Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010” (the “2010 Healthcare Acts”) were signed into law. This legislation expands health care coverage to many uninsured individuals and expands coverage for those already insured. The 2010 Healthcare Acts, as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures, may have a negative impact on our business. This impact could increase our employee healthcare related costs. While the costs of the 2010 Healthcare Acts will occur after 2014, due to provisions of this legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare cost structure could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. 9 Table of Contents The Relocation of the Company’s corporate headquarters may negatively impact our business. The Company relocated its corporate headquarters from Abilene, Kansas to Coppell, Texas, a suburb of Dallas, Texas during Fiscal 2014. If we do not continue to effectively execute our relocation plan, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Recently proposed accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our financial performance. New accounting pronouncements may adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. One pronouncement that may affect the Company is a recent exposure draft issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), together with the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), which proposes a comprehensive set of changes in U.S. GAAP accounting for leases. This proposed change in its current exposure draft form would create a new accounting model for both lessees and lessors. Changes in these accounting rules or their interpretation, or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by us could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance. The proposed accounting standard, as currently drafted, may have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company’s current legal proceedings may negatively affect the Company’s business. As described in Section 3 to this Form 10-K, the Company is currently a defendant in certain lawsuits brought by Company stockholders. If any of these lawsuits are adversely decided or settled by the Company, then these costs, as well as the costs associated with defending these lawsuits, may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. There also may be negative publicity associated with this litigation that may adversely affect the Company’s reputation and business. A security breach of the Company’s customer, employee and/or vendor information may damage the Company’s reputation and may adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. Like most retail companies, the Company receives and stores personal information about the Company’s customers, employees and vendors. The Company maintains security policies and procedures to ensure that the Company, and any third party service providers used by the Company, properly secure personal information of customers, employees and vendors that is held by the Company. However, even with proper security measures in place, unauthorized parties may defeat the Company’s security measures through fraud, deceit, cyber-attacks, computer hacking or other illegal means. Any breach of the Company’s security measures, or a breach of the security measures of any of the Company’s third party contractors, and loss of the personal and confidential information of the Company’s customers, employees and vendors may cause the Company to incur significant financial costs. In the event the Company experienced a security breach, the Company may incur costs to protect the individuals whose personal data was compromised, to restore and make changes to the Company’s security systems, policies and procedures to protect against future security breaches, and to restore customer confidence. Furthermore, the Company may be subject to government fines and private litigation. Damage to the Company’s security systems may cause a disruption in the Company’s online operations and sales. A security breach may also negatively affect the Company’s reputation and cause an adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and financial performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 