ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, continuedThe company's results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies.The company faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including, but not limited to, product liability, patent infringement, antitrust claims, and claims for third party property damage or personal injury stemming from alleged environmental torts. The company has noted a nationwide trend in purported class actions against chemical manufacturers generally seeking relief such as medical monitoring, property damages, off-site remediation and punitive damages arising from alleged environmental torts without claiming present personal injuries. The company also has noted a trend in public and private nuisance suits being filed on behalf of states, counties, cities and utilities alleging harm to the general public. Various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities such as a final adverse judgment, significant settlement or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on the company. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could be material to the company's financial results.In the ordinary course of business, the company may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations, including those related to divested businesses and issue guarantees of third party obligations. If the company were required to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued, thereby adversely affecting the company's results of operations.Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Chemours indemnifies DuPont against certain litigation, environmental, workers' compensation and other liabilities that arose prior to the distribution. The term of this indemnification is indefinite and includes defense costs and expenses, as well as monetary and non-monetary settlements and judgments. If based on the actions, results of operations or financial position of Chemours, it were no longer probable that the Chemours’ indemnification obligations would be satisfied, then the company could not continue to recognize the related indemnification asset adversely impacting DuPont’s financial position. 16Part IITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.