Item 1A. Risk Factors.We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we have included below the most significant factors that have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during fiscal 2014, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Our success depends in part upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. There were a number of changes in our senior management team in 2011 through 2013, including the appointment of a new President and Chief Executive Officer. We believe that over time our success has been dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. The failure by us to retain members of our senior management team in the future could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts we have undertaken to increase the efficiency and profitability of our business. Competition from other restaurant companies, or poor customer experience at Wendy’s restaurants, could hurt our brand.The market segments in which company-owned and franchised Wendy’s restaurants compete are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience, and the nature and condition of the restaurant facility. If customers have a poor experience at a Wendy’s restaurant, whether at a company-owned or franchised restaurant, we may experience a decrease in guest traffic. Further, Wendy’s restaurants compete with a variety of locally-owned 11restaurants, as well as competitive regional and national chains and franchises. Several of these chains compete by offering menu items that are targeted at certain consumer groups or dietary trends. Additionally, many of our competitors have introduced lower cost, value meal menu options. Our revenues and those of our franchisees may be hurt by this product and price competition.Moreover, new companies, including operators outside the quick-service restaurant industry, may enter our market areas and target our customer base. For example, additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases have come from deli sections and in-store cafes of a number of major grocery store chains, as well as from convenience stores and casual dining outlets. Such competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, better management, better products, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing and marketing strategies in the quick-service restaurant industry better than we can. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on advertising and marketing than we do, which may give them a competitive advantage through higher levels of brand awareness among consumers. All such competition may adversely affect our revenues and profits by reducing revenues of company-owned restaurants and royalty payments from franchised restaurants. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences, and in discretionary consumer spending, could result in a decline in sales at company-owned restaurants and in the royalties that we receive from franchisees.The quick-service restaurant industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending or a decline in consumer food-away-from-home spending could hurt our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition.If company-owned and franchised restaurants are unable to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and trends, company-owned and franchised restaurants may lose customers and the resulting revenues from company-owned restaurants and the royalties that we receive from franchisees may decline.The disruptions in the national and global economies may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition. The disruptions in the national and global economies have resulted in high unemployment rates and declines in consumer confidence and spending. If such conditions persist, they may result in significant declines in consumer food-away-from-home spending and customer traffic in our restaurants and those of our franchisees. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions will restore consumer confidence. Ongoing disruptions in the national and global economies may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition.Changes in commodity costs (including beef, chicken and corn), supply, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs could harm results of operations.Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs (including beef, chicken and corn), supply, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs. Any increase in these costs, especially beef or chicken prices, could harm operating results. In addition, our brand is susceptible to increases in these costs as a result of other factors beyond its control, such as weather conditions, global demand, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulations. Additionally, prices for feed ingredients used to produce beef and chicken could be adversely affected by changes in global weather patterns, which are inherently unpredictable, and by federal ethanol policy. Increases in gasoline prices would result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, which would increase our costs. Significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease in customer traffic at our restaurants, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our customers. 12Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of perishable food products could damage the Wendy’s brand reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Wendy’s and its franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet brand specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which could lower our revenues, increase operating costs, damage brand reputation and otherwise harm our business and the businesses of our franchisees.Food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. Coli) involving Wendy’s or its supply chain, could create negative publicity and adversely affect sales and operating results.Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. Coli), have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. Food safety events could adversely affect the price and availability of beef, poultry or other meats. As a result, Wendy’s restaurants could experience a significant increase in food costs if there are food safety events whether or not such events involve Wendy’s restaurants or restaurants of competitors. In addition, food safety events, whether or not involving Wendy’s, could result in negative publicity for Wendy’s or for the industry or market segments in which we operate. Increased use of social media could create and/or amplify the effects of negative publicity. This negative publicity, as well as any other negative publicity concerning types of food products Wendy’s serves, may reduce demand for Wendy’s food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to our competitors or to other products or food types. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could result in a decline in sales and operating results at company-owned restaurants or in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.Consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of beef, poultry, french fries or other products we sell, concerns regarding the ingredients in our products and/or cooking processes used in our restaurants, or concerns regarding the effects of disease outbreaks such as “mad cow disease” and avian influenza or “bird flu,” could affect demand for our products.Consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of beef, poultry, french fries or other products we sell, concerns regarding the ingredients in our products and/or cooking processes used in our restaurants, or concerns regarding the effects of disease outbreaks such as “mad cow disease” and avian influenza or “bird flu,” could result in less demand for our products and a decline in sales at company-owned restaurants and in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.Increased use of social media could create and/or amplify the effects of negative publicity and adversely affect sales and operating results.Events reported in the media, including social media, whether or not accurate or involving Wendy’s, could create and/or amplify negative publicity for Wendy’s or for the industry or market segments in which we operate. This could reduce demand for Wendy’s food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to our competitors or to other products or food types. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of negative publicity from social media could result in a decline in sales and operating results at company-owned restaurants or in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants.Growth of our restaurant businesses is dependent on new restaurant openings, which may be affected by factors beyond our control.Our restaurant businesses derive earnings from sales at company-owned restaurants, franchise royalties received from franchised restaurants and franchise fees from franchise restaurant operators for each new unit opened. Growth in our restaurant revenues and earnings is dependent on new restaurant openings. Numerous factors beyond our control may affect restaurant openings. These factors include but are not limited to:•our ability to attract new franchisees; •the availability of site locations for new restaurants; 13•the ability of potential restaurant owners to obtain financing; •the ability of restaurant owners to hire, train and retain qualified operating personnel;•construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in highly-competitive markets;•the ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; and•adverse weather conditions.Wendy’s franchisees could take actions that could harm our business.Wendy’s franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the standards set forth in agreements with them. Wendy’s also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments to us will be adversely affected and the brand’s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results.Our success depends on franchisees’ participation in brand strategies.Wendy’s franchisees are an integral part of our business. Wendy’s may be unable to successfully implement the strategies that it believes are necessary for further growth if franchisees do not participate in that implementation. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if a significant number of franchisees do not participate in brand strategies.The Company’s Image Activation program may not positively affect sales at company-owned and participating franchised restaurants or improve our results of operations. Throughout 2014, Wendy’s plans to reimage approximately 200 existing company-owned restaurants and open approximately 15 new company-owned restaurants under its Image Activation program, with plans for significantly more new and reimaged Company and franchisee restaurants in 2015 and beyond. Wendy’s also expects that franchisees will reimage between 150 and 200 restaurants and build approximately 45 new Image Activation restaurants in 2014. Wendy’s has an incentive program for franchisees that commence Image Activation restaurant remodels or open newly constructed Image Activation design restaurants during 2014 and for franchisees that open newly constructed Image Activation design restaurants during 2015. The incentive program provides reductions in royalty payments for up to the first three years after the completion of construction. In addition, the program includes cash incentives for new and remodeled restaurants in the Image Activation design during 2014. These incentives could result in additional expense and/or a reduction of royalties or other revenues received from franchisees in the future. Wendy’s also had an incentive program for franchisees’ participation in Wendy’s Image Activation program during 2013. The Company’s Image Activation program may not positively affect sales at company-owned restaurants or improve results of operations. There can be no assurance that sales at participating franchised restaurants will achieve or maintain projected levels or that after giving effect to the incentives provided to franchisees the Company’s results of operations will improve. Further, it is possible that Wendy’s may provide other financial incentives to franchisees to participate in the Image Activation program. These incentives could also result in additional expense and/or a reduction of royalties or other revenues received from franchisees in the future. If Wendy’s provides incentives to franchisees related to financing of the Image Activation program, Wendy’s may incur costs related to loan guarantees, interest rate subsidies and/or costs related to collectability of loans.In addition, most of the Wendy’s system consists of franchised restaurants. Many of our franchisees will need to borrow funds in order to participate in the Image Activation program. Other than the incentive programs described above, Wendy’s generally does not provide franchisees with financing but it is actively developing third-party financing sources for franchisees. If our franchisees are unable to obtain financing at commercially reasonable rates, or not at all, they may be unwilling or unable to invest in the reimaging of their existing restaurants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our financial results are affected by the operating results of franchisees.As of December 29, 2013, approximately 82% of the Wendy’s system were franchise restaurants. We receive revenue in the form of royalties, which are generally based on a percentage of sales at franchised restaurants, rent and fees from franchisees. 14Accordingly, a substantial portion of our financial results is to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may worsen and our royalty, rent and other fee revenues may decline. In addition, accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts may increase. When company-owned restaurants are sold, one of our subsidiaries is often required to remain responsible for lease payments for these restaurants to the extent that the purchasing franchisees default on their leases. During periods of declining sales and profitability of franchisees, the incidence of franchisee defaults for these lease payments increases and we are then required to make those payments and seek recourse against the franchisee or agree to repayment terms. Additionally, if franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we decide to restructure franchise agreements in order to induce franchisees to renew these agreements, then our royalty revenues may decrease. Further, we may decide from time to time to acquire restaurants from franchisees that experience significant financial hardship, which may reduce our cash and cash equivalents.The system optimization initiative involves risks that could adversely affect our business and financial results.In July 2013, the Company announced a system optimization initiative, as part of its brand transformation, which includes a plan to sell approximately 425 company-owned restaurants to franchisees by the end of the first quarter of 2014. There are a number of risks associated with the system optimization initiative, including the difficulty in predicting the ultimate costs associated with the sale of restaurants, employee termination costs, the timing of payments made and received, the results of negotiations with landlords, the impact of the sale of restaurants on ongoing operations, any tax impact from the sale of restaurants, and the future benefits to the Company’s earnings, restaurant operating margin, cash flow and depreciation. If Wendy’s is unable to manage these risks effectively, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.Wendy’s may be unable to manage effectively the acquisition and disposition of restaurants not part of the system optimization initiative, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Wendy’s has from time to time acquired the interests of and sold Wendy’s restaurants to franchisees not part of the system optimization initiative. Wendy’s intends to evaluate strategic acquisitions of franchised restaurants and strategic dispositions of company-owned restaurants to existing and new franchisees not part of the system optimization initiative. The success of these transactions is dependent upon the availability of sellers and buyers, the availability of financing, and the brand’s ability to negotiate transactions on terms deemed acceptable. In addition, the operations of restaurants that the brand acquires may not be integrated successfully, and the intended benefits of such transactions may not be realized. Acquisitions of franchised restaurants pose various risks to brand operations, including: •diversion of management’s attention to the integration of acquired restaurant operations;•increased operating expenses and the inability to achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies;•exposure to liabilities arising out of sellers’ prior operations of acquired restaurants; and•incurrence or assumption of debt to finance acquisitions or improvements and/or the assumption of long-term, non-cancelable leases.In addition, engaging in acquisitions and dispositions places increased demands on the brand’s operational and financial management resources and may require us to continue to expand these resources. If Wendy’s is unable to manage the acquisition and disposition of restaurants effectively, our business and financial results could be adversely affected.Current restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that our current restaurant locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. In addition, rising real estate prices in some areas may restrict our ability and the ability of franchisees to purchase or lease new desirable locations. If desirable locations cannot be obtained at reasonable prices, the brand’s ability to execute its growth strategies will be adversely affected.Wendy’s leasing and ownership of significant amounts of real estate exposes it to possible liabilities and losses, including liabilities associated with environmental matters. As of December 29, 2013, Wendy’s leased or owned the land and/or the building for 1,183 Wendy’s restaurants. Wendy’s also owned 138 and leased 276 properties that were either leased or subleased principally to franchisees as of December 29, 2013. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate. In particular, the value of our real 15property assets could decrease, and costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, supply or demand for the use of the restaurants, which may result from competition from similar restaurants in the area, and liability for environmental matters.Wendy’s is subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner, operator or occupant of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners, operators or occupants of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such substances. A number of our restaurant sites were formerly gas stations or are adjacent to current or former gas stations, or were used for other commercial activities that can create environmental impacts. We may also acquire or lease these types of sites in the future. We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of all of our properties. We may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our leased and owned properties, and any such liabilities identified in the future could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs associated with litigation, fines or clean-up responsibilities. In addition, we cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted. We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with any environmental laws or regulations or to satisfy any such claims. See “Item 1. Business - General - Legal and Environmental Matters.” Wendy’s leases real property generally for initial terms of 20 years with two to four additional options to extend the term of the leases in consecutive five-year increments. Many leases provide that the landlord may increase the rent over the term of the lease and any renewals thereof. Most leases require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate additional renewals or renewal options, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close restaurants in desirable locations.Due to the concentration of Wendy’s restaurants in particular geographic regions, our business results could be impacted by the adverse economic conditions prevailing in those regions regardless of the state of the national economy as a whole.As of December 29, 2013, we and our franchisees operated Wendy’s restaurants in 50 states, the District of Columbia and 28 foreign countries and territories. As of December 29, 2013 and as detailed in “