RISK FACTORS We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during 2005, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. RISKS RELATING TO TRIARC A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUR SHARES OF CLASS A COMMON STOCK AND CLASS B COMMON STOCK IS CONCENTRATED IN THE HANDS OF CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS. As of March 1, 2005, Nelson Peltz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Peter May, our President and Chief Operating Officer, each individually beneficially owned shares of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, Series 1 (including shares issuable upon the exercise of options exercisable within 60 days of March 1, 2005), that collectively constituted approximately 42.1% of our Class A Common Stock, 30.3% of our Class B Common Stock and 40.3% of our total voting power as of March 1, 2005. In addition, in accordance with procedures adopted by the Performance Compensation Subcommittee of our Board of Directors, in 2003 and 2004 Messrs. Peltz and May elected to defer receipt of a significant number of shares issuable to them upon exercise of stock options previously granted to them. In connection with these deferred compensation arrangements, a corresponding number of shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are being held in trusts for the benefit of Messrs. Peltz and May. As of March 1, 2005, these trusts beneficially owned shares of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common 12 Stock that collectively constituted approximately 7.1% of our Class A Common Stock, 8.1% of our Class B Common Stock and 7.3% of our total voting power as of March 1, 2005. The trustee of the trusts has the sole right to vote these shares until they are released from the trusts, subject to the rights of the Messrs Peltz and May to consult with the trustee regarding any such vote. The trusts currently terminate on January 2, 2008, subject to extension and/or earlier distribution of the shares under certain circumstances. Accordingly, these shares are not deemed to be beneficially owned by Messrs. Peltz and May and are not included in the percentage ownership and voting interests of Messrs. Peltz and May referred to above. Messrs. Peltz and May may from time to time acquire additional shares of Class A Common Stock, including by exchanging some or all of their shares of Class B Common Stock for shares of Class A Common Stock. Additionally, the Company may from time to time repurchase shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock. Such transactions could result in Messrs. Peltz and May together owning more than a majority of our outstanding voting power. As a result, Messrs. Peltz and May would be able to determine the outcome of the election of members of our board of directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring majority stockholder approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They would also be in a position to prevent or cause a change in control of us. In addition, to the extent we issue additional shares of our Class B Common Stock for acquisitions, financings or compensation purposes, such issuances would not proportionally dilute the voting power of existing stockholders, including Messrs. Peltz and May. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS SUBSTANTIALLY UPON THE CONTINUED RETENTION OF CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL. We believe that our success has been and will continue to be dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. The failure by us to retain members of our senior management team could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts undertaken by our current management to increase the efficiency and profitability of our businesses. Specifically, the loss of Nelson Peltz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or Peter May, our President and Chief Operating Officer, other members of our senior management team or the senior management of our subsidiaries could adversely affect us. WE HAVE BROAD DISCRETION IN THE USE OF OUR SIGNIFICANT CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS. At January 2, 2005, our consolidated cash, cash equivalents and investments (including restricted cash, but excluding investments related to deferred compensation arrangements) totaled approximately $641 million. We have not designated any specific use for our significant cash, cash equivalents and investment position. We are evaluating options to deploy our substantial liquidity through, among other things, acquisitions, additional share repurchases and investments. See 'Item 1. Business -- Business Strategy.' ACQUISITIONS ARE A KEY ELEMENT OF OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY, BUT WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO IDENTIFY APPROPRIATE ACQUISITION TARGETS IN THE FUTURE AND THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ANY FUTURE ACQUISITIONS INTO OUR EXISTING OPERATIONS. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties assimilating new operations and products. In addition, acquisitions may require significant management time and capital resources. We cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital required to finance potential acquisitions on satisfactory terms, that any acquisition would result in long-term benefits to us or that management would be able to manage effectively the resulting business. Future acquisitions are likely to result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which could contain restrictive covenants, or the issuance of additional equity securities, which could dilute our existing stockholders. OUR INVESTMENT OF EXCESS FUNDS MAY BE SUBJECT TO RISK, PARTICULARLY DUE TO USE OF LEVERAGE AND THE RISKINESS OF UNDERLYING ASSETS. From time to time we place our excess cash in investment funds managed by third parties or by Deerfield. Some of these funds use substantial leverage in their trading, including through the use of borrowed funds, total return swaps and/or other derivatives. The use of leverage generates various risks, including the exacerbation of losses, increased interest expense in the case of leverage through borrowing, and exposure to 13 counterparty risk in the case of leverage through derivatives. However, volatility in the value of a fund is a function not only of the amount of leverage employed but also of the riskiness of the underlying investments. Therefore, the greater the amount of leverage used by a fund and the greater the riskiness of a fund's underlying assets, the greater the risk associated with our investment in such fund. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO TAKE OR NOT TAKE CERTAIN ACTIONS, SUCH AS FOREGOING INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES, SO AS NOT TO BE DEEMED AN 'INVESTMENT COMPANY' UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, AS AMENDED. The Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the '1940 Act'), requires the registration of, and imposes various restrictions on the operations of, companies that own 'investment securities' having a value exceeding 40% of their assets (excluding government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis, absent an available exclusion. We and/or our subsidiaries may be required to take actions that we and/or our subsidiaries would not otherwise take so as not to be deemed an 'investment company' under the 1940 Act. Presently, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries is an investment company required to register under the 1940 Act. If we or one of our subsidiaries invests more than 40% of its assets in investment securities, and is unable to rely on an exclusion from being an investment company, we and/or that subsidiary might be required to register under and thus become subject to the restrictions of the 1940 Act. We and our subsidiaries intend to continue to make acquisitions and other investments in a manner so as not to be an investment company. As a result, we and/or our subsidiaries may forego investments that we and/or our subsidiaries might otherwise make or retain or dispose of investments or assets that we and/or our subsidiaries might otherwise sell or hold. IN THE FUTURE, WE MAY HAVE TO TAKE ACTIONS THAT WE WOULD NOT OTHERWISE TAKE SO AS NOT TO BE SUBJECT TO TAX AS A 'PERSONAL HOLDING COMPANY.' If at any time during the last half of our taxable year, five or fewer individuals own or are deemed to own more than 50% of the total value of our shares and if during such taxable year we receive 60% or more of our gross income, as specially adjusted, from specified passive sources, we would be classified as a 'personal holding company' for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If this were the case, we would be subject to additional taxes at the rate of 15% on a portion of our income, to the extent this income is not distributed to shareholders. We do not currently expect to have any liability in 2005 for tax under the personal holding company rules. However, we cannot assure you that we will not become liable for such tax in the future. Because we do not wish to be classified as a personal holding company or to incur any personal holding company tax, we may be required in the future to take actions that we would not otherwise take. These actions may influence our strategic and business decisions, including causing us to conduct our business and acquire or dispose of investments differently than we otherwise would. OUR CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION CONTAINS CERTAIN ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND PERMITS OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE PREFERRED STOCK AND ADDITIONAL SERIES OF CLASS B COMMON STOCK WITHOUT STOCKHOLDER APPROVAL. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation are intended to discourage or delay a hostile takeover of control of us. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of 'blank check' preferred stock and additional series of Class B Common Stock, which will have such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock and/or Class B Common Stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, Series 1. The preferred stock and additional series of Class B Common Stock could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that is determined by our board of directors to be undesirable. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock or additional series of Class B Common Stock, we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. 14 RISKS RELATING TO ARBY'S ARBY'S IS SIGNIFICANTLY DEPENDENT ON NEW RESTAURANT OPENINGS, WHICH MAY BE INTERRUPTED BY FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our restaurant business derives revenues and earnings from franchise royalties and fees from franchised restaurants and sales in company-owned restaurants. Growth in our restaurant revenues and earnings is significantly dependent on new restaurant openings. Numerous factors beyond our control may affect restaurant openings. These factors include but are not limited to: o our ability to attract new franchisees; o the availability of site locations for new restaurants; o the ability of potential restaurant owners to obtain financing; o the ability of restaurant owners to hire, train and retain qualified operating personnel; o the availability of construction materials and labor; o construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in highly-competitive markets; o the ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; and o adverse weather conditions. Although as of January 2, 2005, franchisees had signed commitments to open 437 Arby's restaurants and have made or are required to make non-refundable deposits of $10,000 per restaurant, we cannot assure you that franchisees will meet these commitments and that they will result in open restaurants. See 'Item 1. Business -- Business Segments -- Restaurant Franchising and Operations (Arby's) -- Franchise Network.' OUR FRANCHISE REVENUES DEPEND, TO A SIGNIFICANT EXTENT, ON OUR LARGEST FRANCHISEE AND A DECLINE IN ITS REVENUE MAY INDIRECTLY ADVERSELY AFFECT US. Our largest franchisee, RTM Restaurant Group, Inc. ('RTM'), accounted for approximately 29% of our royalties and franchise and related fees in 2004. As of January 2, 2005, RTM operated 772 Arby's restaurants. Our revenues could materially decline from their present levels if RTM suffered a significant decline in its business. OUR FRANCHISEES COULD TAKE ACTIONS THAT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the standards we set in our agreements with them. We also provide training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards, the Arby's image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results. OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR FRANCHISEES' PARTICIPATION IN OUR STRATEGY. Our franchisees are an integral part of our business. We may be unable to successfully implement our brand strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if our franchisees do not participate in that implementation. The failure of our franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations such as quality, service and cleanliness would have a negative impact on our success. OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS ARE AFFECTED BY THE FINANCIAL RESULTS OF OUR FRANCHISEES. We receive revenue in the form of royalties and fees from our franchisees. A substantial portion of our financial results are to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees, including their implementation of our strategic plans, as well as their ability to secure adequate financing. If 15 sales trends or economic conditions worsen for our franchisees, their financial results may worsen and our collection rates may decline. To the extent we divest restaurants in the future, we may also be required to assume the responsibility for lease payments for these restaurants if the relevant franchisees default on their leases. Additionally, if our franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we are required to restructure our franchise agreements in connection with such renewal, it would result in decreased revenues for us. ARBY'S DOES NOT CONTROL ADVERTISING AND PURCHASING FOR THE ARBY'S RESTAURANT SYSTEM, WHICH COULD HURT SALES AND THE ARBY'S BRAND. Arby's franchisees control the provision of national advertising and marketing services to the Arby's franchise system through AFA Service Corporation, a not-for-profit entity controlled by Arby's franchisees. Subject to the Company's right to protect its trademarks, and except to the extent that the Company participates in AFA Service Corporation through its company-owned restaurants, AFA Service Corporation makes all decisions regarding the national marketing and advertising strategies and the creative content of advertising for the Arby's system. In addition, local cooperatives run by operators of Arby's restaurants in a particular local area (including us) make their own decisions regarding local advertising expenditures, subject to spending the required minimum amounts. The Company's lack of control over advertising could hurt sales and the Arby's brand. In addition, although Arby's ensures that all suppliers to the Arby's system meet quality control standards, our franchisees control the purchasing of food, proprietary paper and other operating supplies from such suppliers through ARCOP, Inc., a not-for-profit entity controlled by our franchisees. ARCOP negotiates national contracts for such food and supplies. We are entitled to appoint one representative on the board of directors of ARCOP and participate in ARCOP through our company-owned restaurants, but otherwise exercise no control over the decisions and activities of ARCOP except to ensure that all suppliers satisfy Arby's quality control standards. If ARCOP does not properly estimate the needs of the Arby's system with respect to one or more products, makes poor purchasing decisions, or decides to cease its operations, system sales and the financial condition of Arby's franchisees could be hurt. ADDITIONAL INSTANCES OF MAD COW DISEASE OR OTHER FOOD-BORNE ILLNESSES, SUCH AS BIRD FLU, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE AND AVAILABILITY OF BEEF, POULTRY OR OTHER MEATS AND CREATE NEGATIVE PUBLICITY, WHICH COULD RESULT IN A DECLINE IN OUR SALES. Instances of mad cow disease or other food-borne illnesses, such as bird flu, e-coli or hepatitis A, could adversely affect the price and availability of beef, poultry or other meats, including if additional incidents cause consumers to shift their preferences to other meats. As a result, Arby's restaurants could experience a significant increase in food costs if there are additional instances of mad cow disease or other food-borne illnesses. In addition to losses associated with higher prices and a lower supply of our food ingredients, instances of food-borne illnesses could result in negative publicity for us. This negative publicity, as well as any other negative publicity concerning food products we serve, may reduce demand for our food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to Arby's restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could result in a decline in our sales. CHANGES IN CONSUMER TASTES AND PREFERENCES AND IN DISCRETIONARY CONSUMER SPENDING COULD RESULT IN A DECLINE IN SALES AT COMPANY-OWNED RESTAURANTS AND IN THE ROYALTIES THAT WE RECEIVE FROM FRANCHISEES. The quick service restaurant industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending or a decline in family food-away-from-home spending could hurt our sales, results of operations, business and financial condition. 16 In addition, if company-owned and franchised restaurants are unable to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and trends, we and our franchisees may lose customers and the resulting revenues from company-owned restaurants and the royalties that Arby's receives from its franchisees may decline. CHANGES IN FOOD AND SUPPLY COSTS COULD HARM OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Any increase in food prices, especially that of roast beef, could harm our operating results. For example, we experienced increases in the cost of roast beef in 2003 and 2004 due to decreased supply and increased demand. In addition, we are susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as weather conditions, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulations. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our customers. COMPETITION FROM OTHER RESTAURANT COMPANIES COULD HURT US. The market segments in which owned and franchised Arby's restaurants compete are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, and the nature and condition of the financed business unit. Arby's restaurants compete with a variety of locally-owned restaurants, as well as competitive regional and national chains and franchises. Several of these chains compete by offering higher quality sandwiches and/or menu items that are specifically identified as low in carbohydrates or otherwise targeted at certain consumer groups. Additionally, many of our competitors are introducing lower cost, value meal menu options. Our revenues and those of our franchisees may be hurt by this product and price competition. Moreover, new companies, including operators outside the quick service restaurant industry, may enter our market areas and target our customer base. For example, additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases have recently come from deli sections and in-store cafes of several major grocery store chains, as well as from convenience stores and casual dining outlets. Such competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, lower debt service requirements, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. All such competition may adversely affect our revenues and profits by reducing gross revenues of company-owned restaurants and royalty payments from franchised restaurants. Many of Arby's competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than Arby's, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing and marketing in the quick service restaurant industry better than we can. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HURT BY INCREASED LABOR COSTS OR LABOR SHORTAGES. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our company-owned restaurants. We devote significant resources to recruiting and training our managers and hourly employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefits costs or otherwise would adversely impact our operating expenses. In addition, our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including restaurant managers and staff. If we are unable to do so, our results of operations may be hurt. COMPLAINTS OR LITIGATION MAY HURT US. Occasionally, our customers file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to an Arby's restaurant, or alleging that there was a problem with food quality or operations at an Arby's restaurant. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims, claims from franchisees and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. We could also become subject to class action lawsuits related to these matters in the future. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert our management's attention away from our operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could 17 materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may hurt us and our franchisees. Additionally, the restaurant industry has been subject to a number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their customers. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may harm the reputation of Arby's restaurants, even if the allegations are not directed against Arby's restaurants or are not valid, and even if we are not found liable or the concerns relate only to a single restaurant or a limited number of our restaurants. Moreover, complaints, litigation or adverse publicity experienced by one or more of our franchisees could also hurt our business as a whole. OUR CURRENT INSURANCE MAY NOT PROVIDE ADEQUATE LEVELS OF COVERAGE AGAINST CLAIMS WE MAY FILE. We currently maintain insurance customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to natural disasters or acts of terrorism. In addition, we currently self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers compensation, general liability and property insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense under these programs, which could harm our business and cause a decline in our results of operations and financial condition. CHANGES IN GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION MAY HURT OUR ABILITY TO OPEN NEW RESTAURANTS OR OTHERWISE HURT OUR EXISTING AND FUTURE OPERATIONS AND RESULTS. Each Arby's restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. There can be no assurance that we, or our franchisees, will not experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay the opening of such restaurants in the future. In addition, more stringent and varied requirements of local and tax governmental bodies with respect to zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. We, and our franchisees, are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the Americans with Disabilities Act, family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to permit our company-owned restaurants to comply with any changes in existing regulations or to comply with any future regulations that may become applicable to our business. OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE INFLUENCED BY WEATHER CONDITIONS. Weather, which is unpredictable, can impact our restaurant sales. Harsh weather conditions that keep customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. A heavy snowstorm in the Northeast or Midwest or a hurricane in the Southeast can shut down an entire metropolitan area, resulting in a reduction in sales in that area. Our first quarter includes winter months and historically has a lower level of sales. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods hurts our operating margins, resulting in restaurant operating losses. For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of our performance or how we may perform in the future. CERTAIN OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES ARE SUBJECT TO VARIOUS RESTRICTIONS, AND SUBSTANTIALLY ALL OF THEIR ASSETS ARE PLEDGED, UNDER CERTAIN DEBT AGREEMENTS. Under our restaurant subsidiaries' debt agreements, substantially all of the assets of our subsidiaries (excluding Deerfield and its subsidiaries), other than cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, are pledged as collateral security. The indenture relating to the notes issued in the Arby's securitization and the agreements relating to debt issued by Sybra contain financial covenants that, among other things, require Arby's Franchise Trust (the borrower in the Arby's securitization) and Sybra, as applicable, to maintain certain financial ratios and restrict their ability to incur debt, enter into certain fundamental transactions (including sales of all or substantially all of their assets and certain mergers and consolidations) and create or permit liens. If either Arby's Franchise Trust or Sybra is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds 18 necessary to make required payments of interest or principal under, or is unable to comply with covenants of, its respective debt agreements, it would be in default under the terms of such agreements, which would, under certain circumstances, permit the insurer of the notes issued in the Arby's securitization or the lenders to Sybra, as applicable, to accelerate the maturity of the balance of its indebtedness. You should read the information in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. RISKS RELATING TO DEERFIELD DCM MAY LOSE CLIENT ASSETS, AND THUS FEE REVENUE, FOR VARIOUS REASONS. DCM's success depends on its ability to earn investment advisory fees from the client accounts it manages. Such fees generally consist of payments based on the amount of assets in the account (management fees), and on the profits earned by the account or the returns to certain investors in the accounts (performance fees). If there is a reduction in an account's assets, there will be a corresponding reduction in DCM's management fees from the account, and a likely reduction in DCM's performance fees (if any) relating to the account, since the smaller the account's asset base the smaller will be the potential profits earned by the account. There could be a reduction in an account's assets as the result of investment losses in the account, the withdrawal by investors of their capital in the account, or both. Investors in the accounts managed by DCM have various types of withdrawal rights, ranging from the right of investors in separate accounts to withdraw any or all of their capital on a daily basis, the right of investors in hedge funds to withdraw their capital on a monthly or quarterly basis, and the right of investors in CDOs to terminate the CDO in specified situations. Investors may withdraw capital for many reasons, including their dissatisfaction with the account's performance, adverse publicity regarding DCM, DCM's loss of key personnel, errors in reporting to investors account values, account performance or other matters resulting from problems in Deerfield's systems technology, investors' desire to invest the capital elsewhere, and their need (in the case of investors that are themselves investment funds) for the capital to fund withdrawals by their investors. DCM could experience a major loss of account assets, and thus advisory fee revenue, at any time. DCM COULD BE REMOVED AS INVESTMENT MANAGER OF ACCOUNTS IT MANAGES, THUS LOSING ANY FUTURE FEE REVENUE FROM THE ACCOUNT. The accounts managed by DCM generally have the right to remove DCM as the investment manager of the account, and replace DCM with a substitute investment manager, pursuant to the investment management agreement between the account and DCM. There are significant differences among the accounts in terms of removal rights, but in some cases, such as CDOs, DCM can be removed without cause by investors that hold a specified amount of the securities issued by the CDO. In the event of its removal, DCM would no longer receive any advisory fees from the account, and any termination fees received by DCM would likely be insignificant. DCM COULD LOSE CLIENT ASSETS AS THE RESULT OF THE LOSS OF KEY DCM PERSONNEL. DCM generally assigns the management of its investment products to specific teams, consisting of DCM portfolio management and other personnel. The loss of a particular member or members of such a team -- for example, because of resignation or retirement -- could cause investors in the product to withdraw all or a portion of their investment in the product, and adversely affect the marketing of the product to new investors. In the case of some accounts, such as certain CDOs, DCM can be removed as investment manager upon its loss of specified key employees. In addition to the loss of specific portfolio management team members, the loss of one or more members of DCM's senior management involved in supervising the portfolio teams could have similar adverse effects on DCM's investment products. DCM MAY NEED TO OFFER NEW INVESTMENT STRATEGIES AND PRODUCTS IN ORDER TO CONTINUE TO GENERATE REVENUE. The segments of the asset management industry in which DCM operates are subject to rapid change. Investment strategies and products that had historically been attractive to investors may lose their appeal, for various reasons. Thus, strategies and products that have generated fee revenue for DCM in the past may fail to 19 do so in the future, in which case DCM would have to develop new strategies and products in order to retain investors or replace withdrawing investors with new investors. It could be both expensive and difficult for DCM to develop new strategies and products, and there is no assurance that DCM would be successful in this regard. In addition, alternative asset management products represent a substantially smaller segment of the overall asset management industry than traditional asset management products (such as many corporate bond funds). DCM's inability to expand its offerings beyond alternative asset management products could inhibit the growth of its business. CHANGES IN THE FIXED INCOME MARKETS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT DCM. DCM's success generally depends on the attractiveness to institutional investors of investing in the fixed income markets, and changes in those markets could significantly reduce the appeal of DCM's investment products to such investors. Such changes could include increased volatility in the prices of fixed income instruments, periods of illiquidity in the fixed income trading markets, changes in the taxation of fixed income instruments, significant changes in the 'spreads' in the fixed income markets (the amount by which the yields on particular fixed income instruments exceed the yields on benchmark U.S. Treasury securities), and the lack of arbitrage opportunities between U.S. Treasury securities and their related instruments (such as interest rate swap and futures contracts). THE NARROWING OF CDO SPREADS COULD MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR DCM TO LAUNCH NEW CDOS. It is important for DCM to be able to launch new CDO products from time to time, both to expand its CDO activities (which are a major part of DCM's business) and to replace existing CDOs as they are terminated or mature. The ability to launch new CDOs is dependent on, among other factors, the amount by which the interest earned on the collateral held by the CDO (such as bank loans or corporate bonds) exceeds the interest payable by the CDO on the debt obligations it issues to investors. If these 'spreads' are not wide enough, the proposed CDO will not be attractive to investors and thus cannot be launched. There may be sustained periods when such spreads will not be sufficient for DCM to launch new CDO products. DCM'S FEE REVENUE COULD BE REDUCED BECAUSE OF THE NEED TO LOWER THE ADVISORY FEES IT CHARGES. As a general matter, the fees charged by 'alternative' asset managers such as DCM are higher than those charged by traditional managers, particularly with respect to hedge funds and similar products. This could change, however, as a result of competitive pressures or other factors and DCM might have to reduce the fees it charges to some or all of its clients. This would reduce DCM's fee revenue unless DCM was able to counteract the effect of the lower fees by increasing its assets under management. There is no assurance that DCM will be able to do so. DCM COULD LOSE CLIENT ASSETS AS THE RESULT OF ADVERSE PUBLICITY. Asset managers such as DCM can be particularly vulnerable to losing clients because of adverse publicity. Asset managers are generally regarded as fiduciaries, and if they fail to adhere at all times to a high level of honesty, fair dealing and professionalism they can incur large and rapid losses of client assets. Accordingly, a relatively small lapse in this regard, particularly if it resulted in a regulatory investigation or enforcement proceeding, could hurt DCM's business. DCM COULD LOSE MANAGEMENT FEE INCOME FROM ITS CDOS BECAUSE OF PAYMENT DEFAULTS BY ISSUERS OF COLLATERAL HELD BY THE CDOS. Pursuant to the investment management agreements between DCM and the CDOs it manages, DCM's management fee from the CDO is generally subject to a 'waterfall' structure, under which DCM will not receive all or a portion of its fees if, among other things, the CDO does not have sufficient income from its underlying collateral (such as corporate bonds or bank loans) to pay the required interest on the notes it has issued to investors and certain expenses. This could occur if there are defaults by issuers of the collateral on their payments of principal or interest relating to the collateral. In that event, DCM's management fees would be deferred until funds are available to pay the fees, if such funds become available. 20 DCM MAY BE UNABLE TO INCREASE ITS ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT IN CERTAIN OF ITS INVESTMENT VEHICLES, OR IT MAY HAVE TO REDUCE SUCH ASSETS, BECAUSE OF CAPACITY CONSTRAINTS. A number of DCM's investment vehicles are limited in the amount of client assets they can accommodate by the amount of liquidity in the instruments traded by such vehicles, the arbitrage opportunities available in those instruments, or other factors. Thus, DCM may manage investment vehicles that are relatively successful but that cannot accept additional capital because of such constraints. Conversely, DCM might have to reduce the amount of assets managed by investment vehicles that face capacity constraints. Changes in the fixed income markets could materially increase capacity constraints, such as an increase in the number of asset managers using the same or similar strategies as DCM. DCM MAY LOSE CLIENT ASSETS BECAUSE OF COMPETITION FROM OTHER ASSET MANAGERS. The areas of the asset management industry in which DCM operates are highly competitive. For example, there are numerous other asset managers that have substantial experience in managing CDOs and fixed income arbitrage hedge funds. DCM could lose existing and prospective clients to these managers for various reasons, such as lower advisory fees than those charged by DCM or investment vehicles with more attractive structural features than those managed by DCM. In addition, DCM may be at a disadvantage in competing with other asset managers for clients for various other reasons, such as that DCM may be competing with managers that are subject to less regulation and thus less restricted in their client solicitation and portfolio management activities, and DCM may be competing for non-U.S. clients with asset managers that are based in the jurisdiction of the prospective client's domicile. The barriers to entry into the asset management business are not particularly high, and thus DCM may face increased competition from many new entrants. DCM's current focus is on providing fixed income asset management services to institutional clients, and the market for such services is limited. CHANGES IN GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS, ACCOUNTING STANDARDS OR TAXATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT DCM'S BUSINESS. The level of investor participation in the products offered by DCM is affected by various factors other than the actual performance of the products, such as regulatory and self-regulatory requirements and restrictions applicable to DCM, the products or the investors in the products, the manner in which investors in the products must account for their investments for financial reporting purposes, and the manner in which such investors are taxed on their investments. Adverse changes in any of these areas could cause DCM to lose existing investors and fail to attract new investors. DCM IS NOT AS DIVERSIFIED AS NUMEROUS OTHER RELATIVELY LARGE ASSET MANAGERS. DCM currently focuses almost exclusively on fixed income securities and related financial instruments in managing client accounts. DCM has little or no experience in investing in equity securities. This is in contrast to numerous other asset managers with comparable assets under management, which have significant background and experience in both the equity and debt markets. These managers have a more diversified revenue base than DCM and thus are better able to withstand periods of lack of investor interest in a particular asset class. OTHER RISKS WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, WHICH COULD HARM THE VALUE OF OUR BRANDS AND HURT OUR BUSINESS. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brands and other intellectual property. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both existing and new markets. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either 21 in print or on the Internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the failure of our brands to achieve and maintain market acceptance. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees. We franchise our restaurant brands to various franchisees. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure you that these franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or the reputation of the Arby's restaurant system. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. The trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the United States in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim infringement by us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items or investment products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could harm our business and cause a decline in our results of operations and financial condition. WE, AND SOME OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES, REMAIN CONTINGENTLY LIABLE WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN OBLIGATIONS RELATING TO BUSINESSES THAT WE HAVE SOLD. In 1997 we sold all of our then company-owned Arby's restaurants to subsidiaries of RTM, Arby's largest franchisee. In connection with the sale, an aggregate of approximately $55 million of mortgage and equipment notes were assumed by subsidiaries of RTM, of which approximately $38 million remained outstanding at January 2, 2005. RTM has guaranteed the payment of these notes by its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding the assumption of this debt and guaranty, we remain contingently liable as a guarantor of the notes. In addition, the subsidiaries of RTM also assumed substantially all of the lease obligations relating to the purchased restaurants (which aggregate a maximum of approximately $52 million at January 2, 2005) and RTM has indemnified us for any losses we might incur with respect to such leases. Notwithstanding such assumption, Arby's and its subsidiaries remain contingently liable if RTM's subsidiaries fail to make the required payments under those notes and leases. In addition, in July 1999, we sold 41.7% of our then remaining 42.7% interest in National Propane Partners, L.P. and a sub-partnership, National Propane, L.P. to Columbia Energy Group, and retained less than a 1% special limited partner interest in AmeriGas Eagle Propane, L.P. (formerly known as National Propane, L.P. and as Columbia Propane, L.P.). As part of the transaction, our subsidiary, National Propane Corporation, agreed that while it remains a special limited partner of AmeriGas, it would indemnify the owner of AmeriGas for any payments the owner makes under certain debt of AmeriGas (aggregating approximately $138 million as of January 2, 2005), if AmeriGas is unable to repay or refinance such debt, but only after recourse to the assets of AmeriGas. Either National Propane Corporation or AmeriGas Propane, L.P., the owner of AmeriGas, may require AmeriGas to repurchase the special limited partner interest. However, we believe it is unlikely that either party would require repurchase prior to 2009 as either AmeriGas Propane, L.P. would owe us tax indemnification payments or we would accelerate payment of deferred taxes, which amount to approximately $36.1 million as of January 2, 2005, associated with our sale of the propane business. Although we believe that it is unlikely that we will be called upon to make any payments under the guaranty, leases or indemnification described above, if we are required to make such payments it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. You should read the information in 'Item. 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources' and in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 22 CHANGES IN GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EXISTING AND FUTURE OPERATIONS AND RESULTS. Certain of our current and past operations are or have been subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances that provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, in certain cases without regard to whether the owner or operator of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, third parties may make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. Although we believe that our operations comply in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted. We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with any environmental laws or regulations or to satisfy any such claims. See 'Item 1. Business -- General -- Environmental Matters.' 