Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Wendy’s and Arby’s Businesses – Wendy’s and its subsidiaries, and ARG and its subsidiaries, are subject to various restrictions, and substantially all of their non-real estate assets are pledged subject to certain restrictions, under a Credit Agreement”). Wendy’s, Arby’s and certain other subsidiaries are the co-borrowers (the “Co-Borrowers”) under the amended and restated Credit Agreement. Under the amended and restated Credit Agreement substantially all of the assets of the Co-Borrowers (other than real property, except for mortgages on certain Wendy’s real properties), the stock of Wendy’s and ARG and their domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the stock of their foreign subsidiaries (all subject to certain exclusions) are pledged as collateral security, and the Co-Borrowers’ obligations are also guaranteed by substantially all of the domestic entities comprising the Wendy’s and Arby’s restaurant segments (subject to certain limitations). The amended and restated Credit Agreement also contains covenants that, among other things, require Wendy’s and ARG and their subsidiaries to maintain certain aggregate maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios and restrict their ability to incur debt, pay dividends or make other distributions to Wendy’s/Arby’s, make certain capital expenditures, enter into certain fundamental transactions (including sales of assets and certain mergers and consolidations) and create or permit liens. - 46 - - The amended and restated Credit Agreement includes a senior secured term loan facility (the “Amended Arby’s Term Loan”), which had $384.0 outstanding as of March 11, 2009, and a senior secured revolving credit facility of $100.0. The Amended Arby’s Term Loan is due not later than July 2012 and the revolving credit facility expires in July 2011. The revolving credit facility includes a subfacility for the issuance of letters of credit up to $50.0 million. As of March 11, 2009, $26.2 of loans were outstanding and letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $35.1 were issued under the amended and restated Credit Agreement. The Amended Arby’s Term Loan and amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at the borrowers’ option at either (1) LIBOR of not less than 2.75% plus 4.0% or (2) the higher of a base rate determined by the administrative agent for the Credit Agreement or the Federal funds rate plus 0.5% (but not less than 3.75%), in either case plus 3.0%. The borrowers are also charged a facility fee based on the unused portion of the total credit facility of 0.5% per annum. (2) Unsecured debt assumed as part of the Wendy’s Merger and is due June 2014 and redeemable prior to maturity at our option. The Wendy’s 6.20% senior notes were adjusted to fair value at the date of and in connection with the Wendy’s Merger based on an outstanding principal of $224.6 million and an effective interest rate of 7.0%. (3) Unsecured debt assumed as part of the Wendy’s Merger and is due November 2011 and is redeemable prior to maturity at our option. The Wendy’s 6.25% senior notes were adjusted to fair value at the date of and in connection with the Wendy’s Merger based on an outstanding principal of $199.7 million and an effective interest rate of 6.6%. (4) The capitalized lease obligations, which extend through 2036, include $30.1 million of capital lease obligations assumed as part of the Wendy’s Merger. The Wendy’s capital lease obligations were adjusted to fair value at the date of and in connection with the Wendy’s Merger. (5) Unsecured debt assumed as part of the Wendy’s Merger and is due in 2025. The Wendy’s 7% debentures are unsecured and were adjusted to fair value at the date of and in connection with the Wendy’s Merger based on an outstanding principal of $97.1 million and an effective interest rate of 8.6%. (6) During 2008 we entered into a new $20.0 million financing facility for one of our existing Company aircraft (the “Bank Term Loan”). The facility requires monthly payments, including interest, of approximately $0.2 million through August 2013 with a final balloon payment of approximately $15.2 million due in September 2013. (7) This obligation represents notes payable assumed as part of the California Restaurant Acquisition which are due through 2014. (8) We have $2.1 million of convertible notes outstanding as of December 28, 2008 which do not have any scheduled principal repayments prior to 2023 and are convertible into 160,000 shares of our class A common stock as adjusted due to the dividend of DFR common stock distributed to our stockholders in April 2008. The convertible notes are redeemable at our option commencing May 20, 2010 and at the option of the holders on May 15, 2010, 2015 and 2020 or upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, as defined, relating to us, in each case at a price of 100% of the principal amount of the convertible notes plus accrued interest. Other Revolving Credit Facilities On January 14, 2009, Wendy’s executed a new $200.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Wendy’s Revolver”), borrowings under which were secured by substantially all of Wendy’s current assets, intangibles, stock of Wendy’s subsidiaries and a portion of their real and personal property. The Wendy’s Revolver was terminated effective March 11, 2009, in connection with the execution of the amended and restated Credit Agreement described above. AFA Service Corporation (“AFA”), an independently controlled advertising cooperative in which we have voting interests of less than 50%, has a $3.5 million line of credit. The availability under the AFA line of credit as of December 28, 2008 was $3.0 million. WNAP is an advertising fund established to collect and administer funds for use in advertising and promotional programs for Wendy’s company-owned and franchised stores. The fund has a fully available $25.0 million line of credit at December 28, 2008. Wendy’s is not the guarantor of the debt. The line of credit was established to fund these advertising operations. One of Wendy’s Canadian subsidiaries has a fully available revolving credit facility of Canadian $6.0 million as of December 28, 2008. Credit Ratings The Company’s corporate family and its senior debt are rated by Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s). - 47 - - On March 2, 2009, S&P lowered its rating on the prior Arby’s Credit Agreement to B and its corporate family rating on Arby’s to B-. At the same time, S&P placed the rating on CreditWatch – Developing. S&P is in the process of reviewing the amended and restated Credit Agreement. New corporate family and senior secured ratings are expected following the completion of the review. On March 3, 2009, Moody’s affirmed (i) a B1 rating for the prior Arby’s Credit Agreement, (ii) a B2 corporate family rating for Arby’s and (iii) a negative outlook for Arby’s. Moody’s is in the process of reviewing the amended and restated Credit Agreement. New corporate family and senior secured ratings are expected following the completion of the review. The Wendy’s 6.20% and 6.25% Senior Notes and 7% Debentures are rated as B+ by S&P and B2 by Moody’s. There are many factors that could lead to future upgrades or downgrades of our credit ratings. If our credit ratings are upgraded or downgraded, it could lead to, among other things, changes in borrowing costs and of access to capital markets on acceptable terms. A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Treasury Stock Purchases Our management was authorized, to the extent market conditions warranted and as legally permissible, to repurchase through December 28, 2008 up to a total of $50.0 million of our class A common stock. Under this program, we did not make any treasury stock purchases during 2008, and we have not renewed this program for 2009. Purchase of Indebtedness Subject to market conditions, our capital needs and other factors, we may from time to time repurchase our indebtedness and/or the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, including indebtedness outstanding under the ARG Credit Agreement, in open market or privately negotiated transactions. During 2008, we repurchased $10.9 million principal amount of our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, as discussed above under “Long-term Debt.” Sources and Uses of Cash for 2009 Our anticipated consolidated cash requirements for continuing operations for 2009, exclusive of operating cash flow requirements, consist principally of: · Cash capital expenditures of approximately $140.0 million as discussed below in “Capital Expenditures”; · Quarterly cash dividends aggregating up to approximately $28.0 million as discussed below in “Dividends”; · Scheduled debt principal repayments aggregating $30.4 million; · Severance payments of approximately $11.2 million related to our previously announced Wendy’s merger integration programs and our facilities relocation and corporate restructuring accruals; and · Restricted cash of $47.0 million released from the Equities Account to Wendy’s/Arby’s in 2008; and · The costs of any potential business acquisitions. We expect to meet these requirements from operating cash flows. In the event operating cash flows are not sufficient, the availability under the amended and restated Credit Agreement is anticipated to provide sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow requirements. In addition, the $47.0 million released from the Equities Account to Wendy’s/Arby’s in 2008 is required to be returned to the Equities Account in January 2010. The availability under the amended and restated Credit Agreement is anticipated to provide sufficient liquidity, if needed, to meet operating cash requirements. Debt Covenants The amended and restated Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require Wendy’s and ARG and their subsidiaries to maintain certain aggregate maximum leverage and minimum interest coverage ratios and restrict their ability to incur debt, pay dividends or make other distributions to Wendy’s/Arby’s, make certain capital expenditures, enter into certain fundamental transactions (including sales of assets and certain mergers and consolidations) and create or permit liens. As of December 28, 2008, under the terms of the prior Arby’s Credit Agreement, there was no availability for the payment of dividends to Wendy's/Arby's. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of December 28, 2008 and project that we will be in compliance with our covenants throughout 2009. Under the amended and restated Credit Agreement we have $15.0 million immediately available for the payment of dividends to Wendy's/Arby's, subject to adjustments beginning in the 2009 second quarter. - 48 - - Wendy’s 6.20% and 6.25% Senior Notes and 7% Debentures contain covenants that specify limits on the incurrence of indebtedness. We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 28, 2008 and project that we will be in compliance with our covenants throughout 2009. A significant number of the underlying leases in the Arby’s restaurants segment for the Sale-Leaseback Obligations and the Capitalized Lease Obligations, as well as operating leases, require or required periodic financial reporting of certain subsidiary entities within ARG or of individual restaurants, which in many cases has not been prepared or reported. The Company has negotiated waivers and alternative covenants with its most significant lessors which substitute consolidated financial reporting of ARG for that of individual subsidiary entities and which modify restaurant level reporting requirements for more than half of the affected leases. Nevertheless, as of December 28, 2008, the Company was not in compliance, and remains not in compliance, with the reporting requirements under those leases for which waivers and alternative financial reporting covenants have not been negotiated. However, none of the lessors has asserted that the Company is in default of any of those lease agreements. The Company does not believe that such non-compliance will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the expected payments under our outstanding contractual obligations at December 28, 2008: Fiscal Years 2009 2010-2011 2012-2013 After 2013 Total (in millions) Long-term debt (a) $ 7.4 $ 390.8 $ 201.8 $ 281.0 $ 881.0 Sale-leaseback obligations (b) 3.6 7.6 12.8 99.8 123.8 Capitalized lease obligations (b) 19.4 17.1 7.8 62.5 106.8 Operating leases (c) 148.7 264.0 226.0 1,199.3 1,838.0 Purchase obligations (d) 338.2 86.6 72.5 98.1 595.4 Severance obligations (e) 11.2 2.7 0.1 - 14.0 Total (f) $ 528.5 $ 768.8 $ 521.0 $ 1,740.7 $ 3,559.0 (a) Excludes sale-leaseback and capitalized lease obligations, which are shown separately in the table, and interest. (b) Excludes interest; also excludes related sublease rental receipts of $9.8 million on sale-leaseback obligations and $5.1 million on capitalized lease obligations. (c) Represents the present value of minimum lease cash payments. Excludes related sublease rental receipts of $136.6 million. (d) Includes (1) $266.3 million remaining obligation for beverage purchase commitments with Coca-Cola, Inc. for Wendy’s restaurants and PepsiCo, Inc. for Arby’s restaurants (2) $139.1 million for food purchase commitments, (3) $134.1 million for advertising commitments, (4) $18.6 million for capital expenditures and (5) $37.3 million of other purchase obligations. (e) Represents severance for Wendy’s and Wendy's/Arby’s personnel in connection with the Wendy’s Merger and New York headquarters’ employees. (f) Excludes Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes,” (“FIN 48”), obligations of $30.3 million. We are unable to predict when, and if, payment of any of this accrual will be required. Guarantees and Other Contingencies As of December 28, 2008 (in millions) Guaranteed debt of a subsidiary (1) $ 138.0 Lease guarantees and contingent rent on leases(2) 161.9 Loan guarantees (3) 19.1 Letters of credit (4) 26.4 ____________________ (1) Our wholly-owned subsidiary, National Propane Corporation (“National Propane”), retains a less than 1% special limited partner interest in our former propane business, now known as AmeriGas Eagle Propane, L.P., (“AmeriGas Eagle”). National Propane agreed that while it remains a special limited partner of AmeriGas Eagle, National Propane would indemnify the owner of AmeriGas Eagle for any payments the owner makes related to the owner’s obligations under certain of its debt of AmeriGas Eagle, aggregating approximately $138.0 million as of December 28, 2008, if Amerigas is unable to repay or refinance such debt, but only after recourse by the owner to the assets of AmeriGas Eagle. National Propane’s principal asset is an intercompany note receivable from Wendy’s/Arby’s in the amount of $50.0 million as of December 28, 2008. We believe it is unlikely that we will be called upon to make any payments under this indemnity. Prior to 2006, AmeriGas Propane, L.P., (“AmeriGas Propane”), purchased all of the interests in AmeriGas Eagle other than National Propane’s special limited partner interest. Either National Propane or AmeriGas Propane may require AmeriGas Eagle to repurchase the special limited partner interest. However, we believe it is unlikely that either party would require repurchase prior to 2009 as either AmeriGas Propane would owe us tax indemnification payments if AmeriGas Propane required the repurchase or we would accelerate payment of deferred taxes of $34.7 million as of December 28, 2008, associated with our sale of the propane business if National Propane required the repurchase. As of December 28, 2008, we have net operating loss tax carryforwards sufficient to substantially offset these deferred taxes. - 49 - - (2) As of December 28, 2008, RTM, a subsidiary of Wendy’s/Arby’s, guarantees the lease obligations of 10 restaurants operated by former affiliates of RTM (the “Affiliate Lease Guarantees”). The RTM selling stockholders have indemnified us with respect to the Affiliate Lease Guarantees. In addition, RTM remains contingently liable for 15 leases for restaurants sold by RTM prior to our acquisition of RTM in 2005 (the “RTM Acquisition”) if the respective purchasers do not make the required lease payments (collectively with the Affiliate Lease Guarantees, the “Lease Guarantees”). These Lease Guarantees, which extend through 2025, including all existing extension or renewal option periods could aggregate a maximum of approximately $16.4 million as of December 28, 2008, assuming all scheduled lease payments have been made by the respective tenants through December 28, 2008. In addition, Wendy’s has guaranteed certain leases primarily related to restaurant locations operated by its franchisees. These leases, which extend through 2022, including all existing extension or renewal option periods, could aggregate a maximum $38.0 million, assuming all scheduled lease payments have been made by respective tenants through December 28, 2008. Wendy’s is also contingently liable for certain other leases which have been assigned to unrelated third parties, who have indemnified Wendy’s against future liabilities arising under the leases of $107.5 million. These leases expire on various dates, which extend through 2022, including all existing extension or renewal option periods. (3) Wendy’s provided loan guarantees to various lenders on behalf of franchisees under debt arrangements for new store development and equipment financing. Recourse on the majority of these loans is limited, generally to a percentage of the original loan amount or the current loan balance on individual franchisee loans or an aggregate minimum for the entire loan arrangement. Wendy’s potential recourse for the aggregate amount of these loans amounted to $19.1 million as of December 28, 2008. (4) Wendy’s and Arby’s have outstanding letters of credit of $18.6 million and $7.8 million, respectively, with various parties; however, our management does not expect any material loss to result from these letters of credit because we do not believe performance will be required. Capital Expenditures In 2008, cash capital expenditures amounted to $107.0 million and non-cash capital expenditures consisting of capitalized leases and certain sale-leaseback obligations, (“Non-Cash Capital Expenditures”), amounted to $8.4 million. In 2009, we expect that all capital expenditures will be paid in cash and will amount to approximately $140.0 million, principally relating to (1) the opening of an estimated 5 new Arby’s Company-owned and 10 new Wendy’s Company-owned restaurants, (2) remodeling some of our Arby’s and Wendy’s existing Company-owned restaurants and (3) ongoing maintenance capital expenditures for our Company-owned restaurants. We have $18.6 million of outstanding commitments for capital expenditures as of December 28, 2008, of which we expect $12.8 million to be paid in 2009. Dividends During 2008, we paid cash dividends of $0.26 per share on our Class A common stock, aggregating $30.5 million, including our fourth quarter 2008 payment of $7.0 million. We currently intend to continue to declare and pay quarterly cash dividends; however, there can be no assurance that any quarterly dividends will be declared or paid in the future or of the amount or timing of such dividends, if any. During the 2009 first quarter, we declared dividends of $0.015 per share to be paid on March 30, 2009 to shareholders of record as of March 20, 2009. If we pay regular quarterly cash dividends for the remainder of 2009 at the same rate as declared in our 2009 first quarter, our total cash requirement for dividends for all of 2009 would be approximately $28.0 million based on the number of shares of our Class A common stock outstanding at February 27, 2009. Income Taxes The Wendy’s Merger qualified as a reorganization under Section 368(a)(2)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Based on the merger exchange ratio, the former shareholders of Wendy’s own approximately 80% of the total stock of Wendy’s/Arby’s outstanding immediately after the Wendy’s Merger. Therefore, the Wendy’s Merger was treated as a reverse acquisition for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. As a result of the reverse acquisition, Wendy’s/Arby’s and its subsidiaries became part of the Wendy’s consolidated group with Wendy’s/Arby’s as its new parent. In addition, Wendy’s/Arby’s had a short taxable year in 2008 ending on the date of the Wendy’s Merger. Also as a result of the Wendy’s Merger, there was an ownership change at Wendy’s/Arby’s as defined in Section 382 of the Code which places a limit, as defined in the Code, on the amount of a Company’s net operating losses that can be deducted for tax purposes once there has been an ownership change. - 50 - - The Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) is currently conducting an examination of our U.S. Federal income tax return for the tax period ended December 28, 2008 as part of the Compliance Assurance Program (“CAP”). Our December 28, 2008 U.S. Federal income tax return includes Wendy’s for all of 2008 and Wendy’s/Arby’s for the period September 30, 2008 to December 28, 2008. Prior to the Wendy’s Merger, Wendy’s participated in the CAP since the beginning of the 2006 tax year. CAP is a voluntary, real-time audit arrangement whereby taxpayers and the IRS address issues throughout the year as they emerge. The Wendy’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for 2007 and prior years have been settled. Wendy’s/Arby’s U.S. Federal income tax returns for periods ending January 1, 2006 to September 29, 2008 are not currently under examination by the IRS. However, some of our state income tax returns and some of the Wendy’s state income tax returns for periods prior to the Wendy’s Merger are currently under examination. Certain of these states have issued notices of proposed tax assessments aggregating $11.3 million. We dispute these notices and believe ultimate resolution will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. - 51 - - Universal Shelf Registration Statement In December 2008, the Company filed a universal shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the possible future offer and sale, from time to time, an indeterminate amount of our common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and warrants to purchase any of these types of securities. This registration statement became effective automatically upon filing. Unless otherwise described in the applicable prospectus supplement relating to any offered securities, we anticipate using the net proceeds of each offering for general corporate purposes, including financing of acquisitions and capital expenditures, additions to working capital and repayment of existing debt. We have not presently made any decision to issue any specific securities under this universal shelf registration statement. Legal and Environmental Matters In 2001, a vacant property owned by Adams Packing Association, Inc. (“Adams”), an inactive subsidiary of the Company, was listed by the United States Environmental Protection Agency on the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Information System (“CERCLIS”) list of known or suspected contaminated sites. The CERCLIS listing appears to have been based on an allegation that a former tenant of Adams conducted drum recycling operations at the site from some time prior to 1971 until the late 1970s. The business operations of Adams were sold in December 1992. In February 2003, Adams and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (the “FDEP”) agreed to a consent order that provided for development of a work plan for further investigation of the site and limited remediation of the identified contamination. In May 2003, the FDEP approved the work plan submitted by Adams’ environmental consultant and during 2004 the work under that plan was completed. Adams submitted its contamination assessment report to the FDEP in March 2004. In August 2004, the FDEP agreed to a monitoring plan consisting of two sampling events which occurred in January and June 2005 and the results were submitted to the FDEP for its review. In November 2005, Adams received a letter from the FDEP identifying certain open issues with respect to the property. The letter did not specify whether any further actions are required to be taken by Adams. Adams sought clarification from the FDEP in order to attempt to resolve this matter. On May 1, 2007, the FDEP sent a letter clarifying their prior correspondence and reiterated the open issues identified in their November 2005 letter. In addition, the FDEP offered Adams the option of voluntarily taking part in a recently adopted state program that could lessen site clean up standards, should such a clean up be required after a mandatory further study and site assessment report. With our consultants and outside counsel, we reviewed this option and sent our response and proposed work plan to FDEP on April 24, 2008 and have commenced additional testing as suggested by the FDEP and pursuant to the work plan submitted. Once testing is completed Adams will provide an amended response to FDEP. Nonetheless, based on amounts spent prior to 2007 of approximately $1.7 million for all of these costs and after taking into consideration various legal defenses available to us, including Adams, we expect that the final resolution of this matter will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. On April 25, 2008, a putative class action complaint was filed by Ethel Guiseppone, on behalf of herself and others similarly situated, against Wendy’s, its directors, the Company and Trian Partners, in the Franklin County, Ohio Court of Common Pleas. A motion for leave to file an amended complaint was filed on June 19, 2008. The proposed amended complaint alleged breach of fiduciary duties arising out of the Wendy’s board of directors’ search for a merger partner and out of its approval of the merger agreement on April 23, 2008, and failure to disclose material information related to the merger in Amendment No. 3 to the Form S-4 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Form S-4”). The proposed amended complaint sought certification of the proceeding as a class action; preliminary and permanent injunctions against disenfranchising the purported class and consummating the merger; a declaration that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties; costs and attorneys fees; and any other relief the court deems proper and just. Also on April 25, 2008, a putative class action and derivative complaint was filed by Cindy Henzel, on behalf of herself and others similarly situated, and derivatively on behalf of Wendy’s, against Wendy’s and its directors in the Franklin County, Ohio Court of Common Pleas. A motion for leave to file an amended complaint was filed on June 16, 2008. The proposed amended complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duties arising out of the Wendy’s board of directors’ search for a merger partner and out of its approval of the merger agreement on April 23, 2008, and failure to disclose material information related to the merger in the Form S-4. The proposed amended complaint seeks certification of the proceeding as a derivative and class action; an injunction against consummating the merger and requiring the defendants to promptly hold an annual meeting and to seek another merger partner; rescission of any part of the merger agreement already implemented; a declaration that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties; costs and attorneys fees; and any other relief the court deems proper and just. On May 22, 2008, a putative class action complaint was filed by Ronald Donald Smith, on behalf of himself and others similarly situated, against Wendy’s and its directors in the Franklin County, Ohio Court of Common Pleas. A motion for leave to file an amended complaint was filed on June 30, 2008. The proposed amended complaint alleged breach of fiduciary duties arising out of the Wendy’s board of directors’ search for a merger partner and out of its approval of the merger agreement on April 23, 2008, and failure to disclose material information related to the merger in the Form S-4. The proposed amended complaint sought certification of the proceeding as a derivative and class action; an injunction against consummating the merger and requiring the defendants to promptly hold an annual meeting and to seek another merger partner; rescission of any part of the merger agreement already implemented; a declaration that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties; costs and attorneys fees; and any other relief the court deems proper and just. - 52 - - On June 13, 2008, a putative class action complaint was filed by Peter D. Ravanis and Dorothea Ravanis, on behalf of themselves and others similarly situated, against Wendy’s, its directors, and Triarc Companies, Inc. in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, New York County. An amended complaint was filed on June 20, 2008. The amended complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duties arising out of the Wendy’s board of directors’ search for a merger partner and out of its approval of the merger agreement on April 23, 2008, and failure to disclose material information related to the merger in the Form S-4. The amended complaint seeks certification of the proceeding as a class action; preliminary and permanent injunctions against consummating the merger; other equitable relief; attorneys’ fees; and any other relief the court deems proper and just. All parties to this case have jointly requested that the court stay the action pending resolution of the Ohio cases. On July 9, 2008, the parties to the three Ohio actions described above filed a stipulation and proposed order that would consolidate the cases, provide for the proposed amended complaint in the Henzel case to be the operative complaint in each of the cases, designate one law firm as lead plaintiffs’ counsel, and establish an answer date for the defendants in the consolidated case. The court entered the order as proposed in all three cases on July 9, 2008. On August 13, 2008, counsel for the parties to the Guiseppone, Henzel, Smith and Ravanis cases described above entered into a memorandum of understanding in which they agreed upon the terms of a settlement of all such lawsuits, which would include the dismissal with prejudice, and release, of all claims against all the defendants, including Wendy’s, its directors, us and Trian Partners. In connection with the settlement, Wendy’s agreed to make certain additional disclosures to its shareholders, which were contained in the Form S-4 and to pay plaintiffs’ legal fees. On January 30, 2009, the parties entered into a Class and Derivative Action Stipulation of Settlement. The settlement is subject to approval by the Common Pleas Court of Franklin County, Ohio. On January 30, 2009, the plaintiffs submitted an application for an order preliminarily approving the settlement, certifying a class for settlement purposes only, providing for notice to the class and setting a final settlement hearing. The court has not yet ruled on that application. Although we expect the court to approve the settlement, there can be no assurance that the court will do so. If the court withholds approval, the proposed settlement may be terminated. The defendants believe that the Guiseppone, Henzel, Smith and Ravanis cases described above are without merit and intend to vigorously defend them in the event that court approval is not obtained. While we do not believe that these actions will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, unfavorable rulings could occur. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on our results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurs or for future periods. In addition to the matters described above, we are involved in other litigation and claims incidental to our current and prior businesses. We have reserves for all of our legal and environmental matters aggregating $6.9 million as of December 28, 2008. Although the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty and some of these matters may be disposed of unfavorably to us, based on currently available information, including legal defenses available to us, and given the aforementioned reserves and our insurance coverage, we do not believe that the outcome of these legal and environmental matters will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Application of Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions in applying our critical accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our estimates and assumptions concern, among other things, goodwill impairment, impairment of long-lived assets, other than temporary losses on investments, losses due to investment collectability, valuations of some of our investments, uncertainties for tax, legal and environmental matters, and accounting for leases. We evaluate those estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis based on historical experience and on various other factors which we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We believe that the following represent our more critical estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: · Goodwill impairment: Following the Wendy’s Merger, the Company operates in two business segments consisting of two restaurant brands: (1) Wendy’s restaurant operations and (2) Arby’s restaurant operations. Each segment includes Company-owned restaurants and franchise reporting units which are considered to be separate reporting units for purposes of measuring goodwill impairment under SFAS 142. As of December 28, 2008, Wendy’s goodwill of $836.2 million relates entirely to the Wendy’s franchise reporting unit. Also, Arby’s goodwill of $17.6 million relates entirely to the Arby’s franchise operations. We test goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired, by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit, using discounted cash flows or market multiples based - 53 - - on earnings, to the carrying value to determine if there is an indication that a potential impairment may exist. If we determine that an impairment may exist, we then measure the amount of the impairment loss as the excess, if any, of the carrying amount of the goodwill over its implied fair value. In determining the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill, the Company allocates the fair value of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the unit over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The recoverability of the goodwill for the reporting periods was determined by management, with the assistance of an independent third-party valuation firm, and based on estimates we made regarding the present value of the anticipated cash flows associated with each reporting unit. Those estimates are subject to change as a result of many factors including, among others, any changes in our business plans, changing economic conditions and the competitive environment. Should actual cash flows and our future estimates vary adversely from those estimates we used, we may be required to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges in future years. Further, the fair value of the reporting unit can be determined under several different methods, of which discounted cash flows is one alternative. Had we utilized an alternative method, the amount of any potential goodwill impairment charge might have differed significantly from the amounts as determined. During the second and third quarters of 2008, we performed interim goodwill impairment tests at our Arby’s company-owned restaurant and franchise operations reporting units due to the general economic downturn, a decrease in market valuations, and decreases in Arby’s same store sales. The results of these interim tests indicated that the fair values of each of these Arby’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. As a result of the acceleration of the general economic and market downturn as well as continued decreases in Arby’s same store sales, we concluded that the carrying amount of the Arby’s Company-owned restaurant reporting unit exceeded its fair value. Accordingly, we completed “step two” of our impairment testing as prescribed in SFAS 142 and recorded an impairment charge of $460.1 million (with a $68.3 million tax benefit related to the portion of tax deductible goodwill) representing all of the goodwill recorded for the Arby’s Company-owned restaurant reporting unit. We also concluded at that time that there was no impairment of goodwill for the Arby’s franchise reporting unit or any of the Wendy’s reporting units. The fair value of the Wendy’s franchise reporting unit approximated its carrying value at September 29, 2008. Should current economic trends deteriorate or should we experience adverse changes in the Wendy’s business, we could be required to record impairment charges related to Wendy’s goodwill. The fair values of the reporting units were determined by management with the assistance of an independent third-party valuation firm. · Provisions for impairment of long-lived assets: Long-lived assets include our Wendy’s and Arby’s Company-owned restaurants assets and their intangible assets, which include trademarks, franchise agreements, favorable leases and reacquired rights under franchise agreements. As of December 28, 2008, the net carrying value of Wendy’s restaurant segment long-lived assets and intangible assets were $1,259.2 million and $1,365.2 million, respectively and Arby’s restaurant segment long-lived assets and intangible assets were $495.8 million and $46.2 million, respectively. We review long-lived tangible and amortizing intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If that review indicates such assets may not be recoverable based upon forecasted undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the asset. The fair value is generally estimated to be the present value of the associated cash flows. Non-amortizing intangible assets are tested for impairment annually by comparing their carrying value to fair value; any excess of carrying value over fair value would represent impairment and a corresponding charge would be recorded. Our critical estimates in this review process include the anticipated future cash flows of each of Arby’s and Wendy’s Company-owned restaurants used in assessing the recoverability of their respective long-lived assets. Arby’s restaurants impairment losses reflect impairment charges resulting from the deterioration in operating performance of certain Company-owned restaurants in 2008, 2007, and 2006. In addition, we recognized impairment losses for the TJ Cinnamons brand (“TJ Cinnamons”) and asset management contracts in 2008, 2007 and 2006. The fair values of the impaired assets were estimated to be the present value of the anticipated cash flows associated with each affected Arby’s Company-owned restaurant, the TJ Cinnamons trademark and the asset management contracts. Those estimates are or were subject to change as a result of many factors including, among others, any changes in our business plans, changing economic conditions and the competitive environment. Should actual cash flows and our future estimates vary adversely from those estimates we used, we may be required to recognize additional impairment charges in future years. Further, the fair value of the long-lived assets can be determined under several different methods, of which discounted cash flows is one alternative. Had we utilized an alternative method, the amounts of the respective impairment charges might have differed significantly from the charges reported. - 54 - - We are in the process of disposing of one of our Company-owned aircraft. As a result, we have recorded a general corporate impairment charge to reflect its fair value as a result of an appraisal related to the potential sale. Our Company-owned restaurants, corporate assets, and other long-lived assets could require testing for impairment should future events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may not be recoverable. We no longer have any asset management contracts as a result of the Deerfield sale. · Unrealized losses on certain investments deemed to be other than temporary: We account for other than temporary losses under the guidance set forth in SFAS No. 115 and other authoritative guidance, which specify that investments with unrealized losses should be evaluated for holding losses that are a result of declines in value, due to market fluctuations or the investee’s business environment and are considered not to be recoverable. If we determine that the holding losses are not recoverable during the anticipated investment holding period, then the losses are other than temporary. We performed a review of our unrealized investment losses in 2008, 2007 and 2006 considering the severity and duration of the decline in value and the expected holding period of the investments. Based on this review, we determined that the decreases in 2008 related to the fair value of our investment in the DFR common stock, certain investments held in the Equities Account and certain cost method investments were other than temporary due to their severity, duration and our determination that we are unable to determine whether the value of the investments will be recovered. Therefore, we have permanently reduced the cost basis component of those investments by $112.7 million as of December 28, 2008 (which includes $68.1 million related to the DFR common stock that was distributed to shareholders in April 2008 and $21.2 million related to the DFR Notes discussed below). Based on our review in 2007 and 2006, we also determined that decreases in 2007 and 2006 related to certain investments held in the Equities account and certain cost investments were other than temporary due to their severity, duration and our determination that we were unable to determine whether the value of the investments would be recovered. Therefore, we permanently reduced the cost basis component of those investments in 2007 and 2006 by $9.9 million and $4.1 million, respectively. Recoveries in the value of investments, if any, will not be recognized in income until the investments are sold. Any other than temporary losses on our investments are dependent upon the underlying economics and/or volatility in their value and may or may not recur in future periods. As of December 28, 2008, we have aggregate unrealized holding gains and losses on our available-for-sale marketable securities of $0.4 million and ($0.2) million, respectively. The Equities Account, including restricted cash equivalents and equity derivatives, had a fair value of $37.7 million as of December 28, 2008. As of February 27, 2009, there has been a decrease of approximately $3.6 million in the fair value of the available for sale securities held in the Equities Account as compared to their value on December 28, 2008. Should any of those investments losses in the Equities Account not recover or any of our investments accounted for under the cost method, totaling approximately $12.8 million at December 28, 2008, experience declines in value due to conditions that we deem to be other than temporary, we may recognize additional other than temporary losses. · Losses due to investment collectability DFR Notes: The repayment of the $48.0 million principal amount of DFR Notes due in 2012 received in connection with the Deerfield Sale and the payment of related interest are dependent on the cash flow of DFR, including Deerfield. DFR’s investment portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed income investments, including mortgage-backed securities and corporate debt and its activities also include the asset management business of Deerfield. Among the factors that may affect DFR’s ability to continue to pay the DFR Notes and related interest is the current dislocation in the sub-prime mortgage sector and the continuing weakness in the broader credit market, both of which could continue to adversely affect DFR and one or more of its lenders, which could result in increases in its borrowing costs, reductions in its liquidity and reductions in the value of its investments in its portfolio, all of these factors could reduce cash flows and may result in an additional provision for uncollectible notes receivable. We have received all four cash quarterly interest payments on the DFR Notes to date on a timely basis as well as dividends on the cumulative preferred stock which was previously held. Due to significant financial weakness in the credit markets, current publicly available information of DFR, and our ongoing assessment of the likelihood of full repayment of the principal amount of the DFR Notes, we recorded an allowance for doubtful collectability of $21.2 million on the DFR Notes which is included in the $112.7 million other than temporary losses on investments disclosed above. - 55 - - · Valuations of some of our investments: Our investments as of December 28, 2008 include available-for-sale investments, investment derivatives, other investments accounted for under the cost method and various investment instruments in liability positions. The available-for-sale securities, investment derivatives, and various investments in liability positions include those managed under the Equities Account. We determine the fair value of our available-for-sale securities and investment derivatives principally using quoted market prices, broker/dealer prices or statements of account received from investment managers, which were principally based on quoted market or broker/dealer prices. Our other investments accounted for under the cost method are valued almost entirely based on statements of account received from the investment managers or the investees which are principally based on quoted market or broker/dealer prices. To the extent that some of these investments, including the underlying investments in investment limited partnerships, do not have available quoted market or broker/dealer prices, we rely on unobservable inputs (that are not corroborated by observable market data) that reflect assumptions market participants would use in pricing the investment. These inputs are subjective and thus subject to estimates which could change significantly from period to period. Those changes in estimates in these cost investments would be recognized only to the extent of losses which are deemed to be other than temporary. We believe that the total carrying value of the cost investments not valued based on quoted market or broker/dealer prices of approximately $12.0 million as of December 28, 2008 represented their fair value. We also have $0.8 million of non-marketable cost investments in securities for which it is not practicable to estimate fair value because the investments are non-marketable, but we currently believe the carrying amount is recoverable. · Federal and state income tax contingencies: We recognize the income tax benefits and estimated accruals for the resolution of income tax matters which are subject to future examinations of our U.S. Federal and state income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service or state taxing authorities, including remaining provisions included in “Current liabilities relating to discontinued operations” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets: Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48. As a result, we now measure income tax uncertainties in accordance with a two-step process of evaluating a tax position. We first determine if it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is then measured, for purposes of financial statement recognition, as the largest amount that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon effective settlement. With the adoption of FIN 48, at January 1, 2007 we recognized an increase in our reserves for uncertain income tax positions of $4.8 million, an increase in our liability for interest of $0.5 million and an increase in our liability for penalties of $0.2 million related to uncertain income tax positions. These increases were partially offset by an increase in a deferred income tax benefit of $3.2 million. There was also a reduction in the tax related liabilities of discontinued operations of $0.1 million. The net effect of all these adjustments was a decrease in retained earnings of $2.2 million. We have unrecognized tax benefits of $30.3 million and $12.3 million, which if resolved favorably would reduce the Company’s tax expense by $22.2 million and $9.5 million, at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively. We recognize interest accrued related to uncertain tax positions in “Interest expense” and penalties in “General and administrative expenses”. At December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 we had $6.2 million and $3.4 million accrued for the payment of interest and $1.9 million and $0.2 million accrued for penalties, both respectively. As discussed above in “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” our U.S. Federal income tax return for the tax period ended December 28, 2008 is under examination as part of the CAP program. Our U.S. Federal income tax returns for January 1, 2006 to and including September 29, 2008 are not currently under examination while certain of our state income tax returns and certain of Wendy’s state income tax returns for periods prior to the merger are under examination. We believe that adequate provisions have been made for any liabilities, including interest and penalties that may result from the completion of these examinations. To the extent uncertain tax positions pertaining to the former beverage businesses that we sold in October 2000 are determined to be less than or in excess of the amounts included in “Current liabilities relating to discontinued operations,” any such material difference will be recorded at that time as a component of gain or loss on disposal of discontinued operations. · Legal and environmental reserves: We have reserves which total $6.9 million at December 28, 2008 for the resolution of all of our legal and environmental matters. Should the actual cost of settling these matters, whether resulting from adverse judgments or otherwise, differ from the reserves we have accrued, that difference will be reflected in our results of operations when the matter is resolved or when our estimate of the cost changes. - 56 - - · Accounting for leases: We operate restaurants that are located on sites owned by us and sites leased by us from third parties. At inception, each lease is evaluated to determine whether the lease will be accounted for as an operating or capital lease in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, and other related authoritative guidance under GAAP. When determining the lease term we include option periods for which failure to renew the lease imposes an economic detriment. The primary penalty to which we are subject is the economic detriment associated with the existence of leasehold improvements which might be impaired if we choose not to exercise the available renewal options. For operating leases, minimum lease payments, including minimum scheduled rent increases, are recognized as rent expense on a straight line basis (“Straight-Line Rent”) over the applicable lease terms. Lease terms are generally for 20 years and, in most cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options. The term used for Straight-Line Rent expense is calculated from the date we obtain possession of the leased premises through the expected lease termination date at lease inception. We expense rent from possession date to the restaurant opening date, in accordance with FASB Staff Position No. 13-1, “Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period” (“FSP FAS 13-1”). There is a period under certain lease agreements referred to as a rent holiday (“Rent Holiday”) that generally begins on the possession date and ends on the rent commencement date. During the Rent Holiday period, no cash rent payments are typically due under the terms of the lease, however, expense is recorded for that period consistent with the Straight-Line Rent policy. For leases that contain rent escalations, we record the rent payable during the lease term, as determined above, on the straight-line basis over the term of the lease (including the rent holiday period beginning upon our possession of the premises), and record the excess of the Straight-Line Rent over the minimum rents paid as a deferred lease liability included in “Other liabilities.” Certain leases contain provisions, referred to as contingent rent (“Contingent Rent”), that require additional rental payments based upon restaurant sales volume. Contingent rent is expensed each period as the liability is incurred, in addition to the Straight-Line Rent. Favorable and unfavorable lease amounts are recorded as components of “Other intangible assets” and “Other liabilities”, respectively, when we purchase restaurants (see Note 3) and are amortized to “Cost of sales” – both on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the leases. Upon early termination of a lease, the favorable or unfavorable lease balance associated with the lease is recognized as a loss or gain, respectively, in our results of operations. Management, with the assistance of a valuation firm, makes certain estimates and assumptions regarding each new lease agreement, lease renewal, and lease amendment, including, but not limited to property values, property lives, discount rates, and probable term, all of which can impact (i) the classification and accounting for a lease as capital or operating, (ii) the rent holiday and/or escalations in payment that are taken into consideration when calculating straight-line rent and (iii) the term over which leasehold improvements for each restaurant are amortized. These estimates and assumptions may produce materially different amounts of depreciation and amortization, interest and rent expense that would be reported if different assumed lease terms were used. Inflation and Changing Prices We believe that inflation did not have a significant effect on our consolidated results of operations during the reporting periods since inflation rates generally remained at relatively low levels. Seasonality Our restaurant operations are moderately impacted by seasonality. Wendy’s restaurant revenues are normally higher during the summer months than during the winter months, and Arby’s restaurant revenues are somewhat lower in our first quarter. Because our businesses are moderately seasonal, results for any future quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any other quarter or for the full fiscal year. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS 141(R)”), and SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements – an amendment of ARB No. 51” (“SFAS 160”). These statements change the way companies account for business combinations and noncontrolling interests by, among other things, requiring (1) more assets and liabilities to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date, including a valuation of the entire company being acquired where less than 100% of the company is acquired, (2) an acquirer in preacquisition periods to expense all acquisition-related costs, (3) changes in acquisition related deferred tax balances after the completion of the purchase price allocation be recognized in the statement of operations as opposed to through goodwill and (4) noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries initially to be measured at fair value and classified as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. These statements are to be applied prospectively beginning with our 2009 - 57 - - fiscal year. However, upon adoption, SFAS 160 requires entities to apply the presentation and disclosure requirements retrospectively for all periods presented. Both standards prohibit early adoption. In addition, in April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets” (“FSP FAS 142-3”). In determining the useful life of acquired intangible assets, FSP FAS 142-3 removes the requirement to consider whether an intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and conditions and, instead, requires an entity to consider its own historical experience in renewing similar arrangements. FSP FAS 142-3 also requires expanded disclosure related to the determination of intangible asset useful lives. This staff position is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning in our 2009 fiscal year and may impact any intangible assets we acquire. The application of SFAS 160 will require reclassification of our minority interests from a liability to a component of stockholders’ equity in our consolidated financial statements beginning in our 2009 fiscal year. The effect of this reclassification will not be material to our consolidated balance sheet. Further, all of the statements referred to above could have a significant impact on the accounting for any future acquisitions starting with our 2009 fiscal year. The impact will depend upon the nature and terms of such future acquisitions, if any. These statements will not have an effect on our accounting for the Wendy’s Merger except for any potential adjustments to deferred taxes included in the allocation of the purchase price after such allocation has been finalized. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 161"). SFAS 161 requires companies with derivative instruments to disclose information that should enable financial-statement users to understand how and why a company uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (“SFAS 133”) and how these items affect a company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. SFAS 161 affects only these disclosures and does not change the accounting for derivatives. SFAS 161 is to be applied prospectively beginning with the first quarter of our 2009 fiscal year. We do not expect SFAS 161 to have a material effect on disclosures in our consolidated financial statements. Outlook for 2009 Sales Our net sales will increase significantly for 2009 compared to 2008 as a result of the Wendy’s Merger; however, we expect same store sales growth to be negatively impacted by current economic factors. In 2009, the Arby’s marketing strategy will emphasize Arby’s sliced roasted meat products, including the launch of the Roastburger; however, given the recent declining economic trends, we cannot determine what impact these marketing initiatives will have on Arby’s sales. Wendy’s same-store sales for 2009 are expected to be favorably impacted by continued operational improvement, premium product introductions and a comprehensive menu pricing strategy. Offsetting factors include an uncertain economic environment, a more aggressive marketing focus on value menu offerings and a reduction in the number of stores serving breakfast while refining this daypart strategy. We presently plan to open approximately 5 new Arby’s Company-owned and 10 new Wendy’s Company-owned restaurants during 2009 and close 11 Arby’s Company-owned and 8 Wendy’s Company-owned restaurants. We continually review the performance of any underperforming Company-owned restaurants and evaluate whether to close those restaurants, particularly in connection with the decision to renew or extend their leases. Specifically, we have 56 Arby’s and 58 Wendy’s restaurant leases that are scheduled for renewal or expiration during 2009. We currently anticipate the renewal or extension of 45 Arby’s leases and 50 Wendy’s leases. Franchise Revenues Our franchise revenues will increase significantly for 2009 as a result of the Wendy’s Merger. Franchise revenues will also be favorably impacted by net new restaurant openings by both Arby’s and Wendy’s franchisee locations. Despite an overall increase in franchise revenues, the same-store sales trends for franchised restaurants at Arby’s and Wendy’s will continue to be generally impacted by the various factors described above under “Sales.” Restaurant Margin We expect that our restaurant margins for 2009 will increase primarily as a result of the impacts of menu price increases, higher margins on new premium menu items and tighter controls on fixed and semi-variable costs, which are expected to more than offset the negative impact of more aggressive value menu pricing in our Wendy’s business and higher labor costs in 2009. General and Administrative We expect that our general and administrative expense for 2009 will increase significantly compared to 2008 as a result of the Wendy’s Merger, including integration costs. This increase will be partially offset by the benefit from the merger related savings including the combined support center functions for Wendy’s and Arby’s in Atlanta, Georgia. Depreciation and Amortization We expect that our depreciation and amortization expense for 2009 will increase compared to 2008 as a result of the Wendy’s Merger and the full year effect of depreciation new Arby’s restaurants opened in 2008. - 58 - - Facilities Relocation and Corporate Restructuring We expect that our facilities relocation and corporate restructuring expense for 2009 will be higher than 2008 primarily due to Wendy’s Merger related costs. Interest Expense We expect that our interest expense for 2009 will increase compared to 2008 primarily as a result of the Wendy’s Merger and the increased interest rates on our amended and restated Credit Agreement, partially offset by the $143.2 voluntary net prepayment on the Term Loan in 2008. Additionally, we will be writing off deferred financing costs of approximately $4.4 million related to the Wendy’s credit facility executed in January 2009 because this facility is being replaced by the amended and restated Credit Agreement, as described above. Other Than Temporary Losses on Investments As of February 27, 2009, there has been a decrease of approximately $3.6 million in the fair value of the available for sale securities held in the Equities Account as compared to their value on December 28, 2008. Should any of those investments losses in the Equities Account not recover or any of our investments accounted for under the cost method experience declines in value due to conditions that we deem to be other than temporary, we may recognize additional other than temporary losses on investments. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Certain statements we make under this Item 7A constitute “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Projections” in “Part I” preceding “Item 1.” We are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes, changes in commodity prices, changes in the market value of our investments and foreign currency fluctuations primarily related to the Canadian dollar. In the normal course of business, we employ established policies and procedures to manage our exposure to these changes using financial instruments we deem appropriate. Interest Rate Risk Our objective in managing our exposure to interest rate changes is to limit its impact on our earnings and cash flows. Through October 2008, we had used interest rate caps and/or interest rate swap agreements on a portion of our variable-rate debt to limit our exposure to the effects of increases in short-term interest rates on our earnings and cash flows. Due to decreases in the applicable interest rates on our variable-rate debt, we have not utilized any interest rate protection vehicles since that time. As of December 28, 2008 our long-term debt, including current portion, aggregated $1,111.6 million and consisted of $495.9 million of fixed-rate debt, $385.0 million of variable-rate debt, and $230.7 million of capitalized lease and sale-leaseback obligations. Our variable interest rate debt primarily consists of $385.0 million of Arby’s term loan borrowings under a variable-rate senior secured term loan facility due through 2012. The Amended Arby's Term Loan and amounts borrowed under the revolving credit facility bear interest at the borrowers' option at either (1) LIBOR of not less than 2.75% plus 4.0% or (2) the higher of a base rate determined by the administrative agent for the Credit Agreement or the Federal funds rate plus 0.5% (but not less than 3.75%), in either case plus 3.0%. We added $467.0 million of debt as a result of the Wendy’s Merger. We do not currently plan to enter into future swap agreements. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt will increase if interest rates decrease. The fair market value of our investments in fixed-rate debt securities will decline if interest rates increase. See below for a discussion of how we manage this risk. Commodity Price Risk In our restaurants segments, we purchase certain food products, such as beef, poultry, pork and cheese, that are affected by changes in commodity prices and, as a result, we are subject to variability in our food costs. While price volatility can occur, which would impact profit margins, there are generally alternative suppliers available. Our ability to recover increased costs through higher pricing is, at times, limited by the competitive environment in which we operate. Management monitors our exposure to commodity price risk. Arby’s does not enter into financial instruments to hedge commodity prices or hold any significant inventories of these commodities. In order to ensure favorable pricing for its major food products, as well as maintain an adequate supply of fresh food products, we are members of a purchasing cooperative along with our franchisees that negotiates contracts with approved suppliers on behalf of the Arby's system. These contracts establish pricing arrangements, and historically have limited the variability of these commodity costs, but do not establish any firm purchase commitments by us or our franchisees. Wendy’s employs various purchasing and pricing contract techniques in an effort to minimize volatility. Generally these techniques can include setting fixed prices with suppliers generally for one year or less, and setting in advance the price for products to be delivered in the future by having the supplier enter into forward arrangements (sometimes referred to as “buying forward”). - 59 - - Equity Market Risk Our objective in managing our exposure to changes in the market value of our equity investments is to balance the risk of the impact of these changes on our earnings and cash flows with our expectations for long-term investment returns. One significant exposure to equity price risk relates to our investments (the “Equities Account”) that are managed by a management company formed by certain former executives (the “Management Company”), which are discussed in more detail below. Foreign Currency Risk Our objective in managing our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to limit the impact of these fluctuations on earnings and cash flows. As of December 28, 2008, our primary exposures to foreign currency risk are primarily related to fluctuations in our Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar for the Canadian operations. Exposure outside of North America is limited to the effect of rate fluctuations on royalties paid by franchisees. To a more limited extent, we have exposure to foreign currency risk relating to our investments in certain investment limited partnerships and similar investment entities that hold foreign securities and a total return swap with respect to a foreign equity security. We monitor these exposures and periodically determine our need for the use of strategies intended to lessen or limit our exposure to these fluctuations. We have exposure to (1) our investment in a joint venture with Tim Hortons, Inc. (“THI”), (2) investments in a Canadian foreign subsidiary, and (3) export revenues and related receivables denominated in foreign currencies which are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. Wendy’s is a partner in a Canadian restaurant real estate joint venture with THI (“TimWen”). Wendy’s 50% share of TimWen is accounted for using the Equity Method. Our foreign subsidiary exposures relate to restaurants and administrative operations in Canada. The exposure to Canadian dollar exchange rates on the Company’s cash flows primarily includes imports paid for by Canadian operations in U.S. dollars and payments from the Company’s Canadian operations to the Company’s U.S. operations in U.S. dollars, and to a lesser extent royalties paid by Canadian franchisees. Revenues from foreign operations for the year ended December 28, 2008 represented 7% of our total franchise revenues and 3% of our total revenues. For the year ended December 30, 2007, the same percentages were 4% and less than 1%, respectively. Accordingly, an immediate 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates versus the United States dollar from their levels at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Credit Risk Our credit risk as of December 28, 2008 includes the Series A senior secured notes of Deerfield Capital Corp. (“DFR”) due in December 2012 (the “DFR Notes”), which we received in late fiscal 2007 in connection with the sale of our majority capital interest in Deerfield & Company, LLC (“Deerfield”), which is discussed in more detail below, and, to a lesser extent, our investments in the Equities Account that are managed by the Management Company. On December 21, 2007, the Company received, as a part of the proceeds of its sale of Deerfield (the “Deerfield Sale”), $47.9 million principal amount of DFR Notes with an estimated fair value of $46.2 million at the date of the Deerfield Sale. The DFR Notes bear interest at the three-month LIBOR (1.47% at December 24, 2008) plus a factor, initially 5% through December 31, 2009, increasing 0.5% each quarter from January 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011 and 0.25% each quarter from July 1, 2011 through their maturity. The DFR Notes are secured by certain equity interests of DFR and certain of its subsidiaries. The fair value of the DFR Notes was based on the present value of the probability weighted average of expected cash flows from the DFR Notes. The Company believed that this value approximated the fair value of the DFR Notes as of December 27, 2007 due to the close proximity to the Deerfield Sale date. We have received timely payment of all four quarterly interest payments due on the DFR Notes to date. Additionally, on October 15, 2008 we received a $1.1 million dividend on the convertible preferred stock which we previously held. Accordingly, we did not record valuation reserves on these notes prior to the fourth quarter of 2008. The current dislocation in the sub-prime mortgage sector and continuing weakness in the broader credit markets has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, DFR’s cash flows. Due to the significant continuing weakness in the credit markets and at DFR based upon current publicly available information, and our ongoing assessment of the likelihood of full repayment of the principal amount of the DFR Notes, Company management determined that the probability of collectability of the full principal amount of the DFR Notes was not likely and recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts on the DFR Notes of $21.2 million as of December 28, 2008. The DFR Notes, net of unamortized discount and allowance for doubtful accounts, amounted to $25.3 and $46.2 million at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively, are included in “Notes receivable”. Overall Market Risk Our overall market risk as of December 28, 2008 includes cash equivalents, investments in the Equities Account that are managed by the Management Company and our investment in TimWen. We maintain investment holdings of various issuers, types and maturities. As of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, these investments were classified in our consolidated balance sheets as follows (in millions): - 60 - - Year-End 2008 2007 Cash equivalents included in “Cash and cash equivalents” in our consolidated balance sheets $ 36.8 $ 60.5 Current restricted cash equivalents 20.8 - Short-term investments 0.2 2.6 Investment related receivables 0.4 0.4 Non-current restricted cash equivalents 34.0 45.3 Non-current investments 133.0 141.9 $ 225.2 $ 250.7 Certain liability positions related to investments included in “Other liabilities” in 2008 and 2007: Derivatives in liability positions $ (3.0 ) $ (0.3 ) Securities sold with an obligation to purchase (16.6 ) - $ (19.6 ) $ (0.3 ) Prior to 2006, we invested $75.0 million in the Equities Account, and in April 2007, we entered into an agreement under which (1) the Management Company will continue to manage the Equities Account until at least December 31, 2010, (2) we will not withdraw our investment from the Equities Account prior to December 31, 2010 and (3) beginning January 1, 2008, we began to pay management and incentive fees to the Management Company in an amount customary for other unaffiliated third party investors with similarly sized investments. The Equities Account is invested principally in debt and equity securities of a limited number of publicly-traded companies, cash equivalents and equity derivatives and had a fair value of $37.7 million and $99.3 million as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively, detailed below. The fair value of the Equities Account at December 28, 2008 excludes $47.0 million of restricted cash released from the Equities Account to Wendy’s/Arby’s in 2008. We obtained permission from the Management Company to release this amount from the aforementioned investment restriction and we are obligated to return this amount to the Equities Account by January 29, 2010. As of December 28, 2008, the derivatives held in our Equities Account investment portfolio consisted of a total return swaps on equity securities, and put options on equity securities. We did not designate any of these strategies as hedging instruments and, accordingly all of these derivative instruments were recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in our results of operations. The investments in the Equities Account consist of the following (in millions): December 28, 2008 (b) December 30, 2007 Restricted cash equivalents $ 26.5 $ 43.3 Investments 30.4 48.3 Derivatives in an asset position included in “Investments” (a) - 7.6 Investment settlement receivable included in “Accounts and notes receivable” - 0.3 Investment related receivables included in “Deferred costs and other assets” 0.4 0.1 Securities sold with an obligation to purchase included in “Other liabilities” (16.6 ) - Derivatives in a liability position included in “Other liabilities” (a) (3.0 ) (0.3 ) Total fair value $ 37.7 $ 99.3 ______________________________ (a) We did not designate any of the derivatives as hedging instruments and, accordingly, all of these derivative instruments were recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in our results of operations. (b) The fair value of the Equities Account at December 28, 2008 excludes $47.0 million of restricted cash released from the Equities Account in 2008. We obtained permission from the Management Company to release this amount from the aforementioned investment restriction and we are obligated to return this amount to the Equities Account by January 29, 2010. Our cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when acquired and consisted principally of cash in bank, money market and mutual fund money market accounts, and are primarily not in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured accounts, $30.0 million of which was restricted as of December 28, 2008. - 61 - - At December 28, 2008 our investments were classified in the following general types or categories (in millions): Carrying Value Type At Cost At Fair Value (a)(b) Amount Percent Cash equivalents $ 36.8 $ 36.8 $ 36.8 16.3 % Investment related receivables 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 % Current and non-current restricted cash equivalents 54.8 54.8 54.8 24.3 % Current and non-current investments accounted for as available-for-sale securities 30.2 30.4 30.4 13.5 % Other non-current investments in investment limited partnerships accounted for at cost 8.3 7.6 8.3 3.7 % Other non-current investments accounted for at: Cost 4.5 5.2 4.5 2.0 % Equity 88.0 90.0 90.0 40.0 % $ 223.0 $ 225.2 $ 225.2 100.0 % Liability positions related to investments: Non-current derivatives in liability positions - (3.0 ) (3.0 ) 15.3 % Securities sold with an obligation to purchase (19.8 ) (16.6 ) (16.6 ) 84.7 % $ (19.8 ) $ (19.6 ) $ (19.6 ) 100.0 % _______________________________ (a) There was no assurance at December 28, 2008 that we would have been able to sell certain of these investments at these amounts. (b) Includes amounts managed in the Equities Account by the Management Company, detailed above. At December 30, 2007 our investments were classified in the following general types or categories (in millions): Carrying Value Type At Cost At Fair Value (a)(b) Amount Percent Cash equivalents $ 60.5 $ 60.5 $ 60.5 24% Investment related receivables 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.1% Current and non-current investments accounted for as available-for-sale securities (c) 124.6 121.0 121.0 48.3% Other current and non-current investments in investment limited partnerships and similar investment entities accounted for at cost 2.1 2.4 2.1 0.9% Other current and non-current investments accounted for at: Cost 11.9 16.5 11.9 4.7% Equity 1.9 1.6 1.9 0.8% Fair value 5.9 7.6 7.6 3.0% Non-current restricted cash equivalents 45.3 45.3 45.3 18.1% Total cash equivalents and long investment positions $ 252.6 $ 255.3 $ 250.7 100.0% Liability positions related to investments: Non-current derivatives in liability positions $ - $ (0.3 ) $ (0.3 ) 100.0% __________________________ (a) There was no assurance at December 30, 2007 that we would have been able to sell certain of these investments at these amounts. (b) Includes amounts managed in the Equities Account by the Management Company, detailed above. (c) In addition to the Equities Account information included in footnote (b), non-current investments accounted for as available-for-sale securities includes $70.4 million of the carrying and fair value of DFR preferred stock, net of unrecognized gain. Our marketable securities are reported at fair market value and are classified and accounted for as “available-for-sale” with net unrealized holding gains or losses, net of income taxes, reported as a separate component of comprehensive income or loss bypassing net income or loss. Investment limited partnerships and other non-current investments in which we do not have significant influence over the investees are accounted for at cost. Unrealized holding gains or losses, net of income taxes, for derivatives and securities sold with an obligation to purchase (“short-sales”) are reported as a component of net income or loss. Realized gains and losses on investment limited partnerships and other non-current investments recorded at cost are reported as income or loss in the period in which the securities are sold. Investments in which we have significant influence over the investees are accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting under which our results of operations include our share of the income or loss of the investees. We review all of our investments in which we have unrealized losses and recognize investment losses currently for any unrealized losses we deem to be other than temporary. The cost-basis component of investments reflected in the tables above and below represents original cost less a permanent reduction for any unrealized losses that were deemed to be other than temporary. - 62 - - Sensitivity Analysis Our estimate of market risk exposure is presented for each class of financial instruments held by us at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 for which an immediate adverse market movement causes a potential material impact on our financial position or results of operations. We believe that the adverse market movements described below represent the hypothetical loss to future earnings and do not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected actual loss, even under adverse conditions, because actual adverse fluctuations would likely differ. In addition, since our investment portfolio is subject to changes in our portfolio management strategy, and general market conditions, these estimates are not necessarily indicative of the actual results which may occur. As of December 28, 2008, we did not hold any market-risk sensitive instruments which were entered into for trading purposes. As such, the table below reflects the risk for those financial instruments entered into for other than trading purposes as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 based upon assumed immediate adverse effects as noted below (in millions): Year-End 2008 Carrying Value Interest Rate Risk Equity Price Risk Foreign Currency Risk Cash equivalents $ 36.8 $ - $ - $ (0.4 ) Investment related receivables 0.4 - - - Current and non-current restricted cash equivalents 54.8 - - - Available-for-sale equity securities 0.2 - - - Available-for-sale equity securities – restricted 30.1 - (3.0 ) - Equity investments 90.0 - (9.0 ) (9.0 ) Other investments 12.8 (0.1 ) (1.2 ) - DFR Notes 25.3 (0.3 ) - - Investments in liability positions: Securities sold with an obligation to purchase - restricted (16.6 ) (0.2 ) (1.7 ) - Total return swap on equity securities – restricted (3.0 ) - (1.5 ) (1.1 ) Long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease and sale-leaseback obligations-variable (385.0 ) (11.9 ) - - Long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease and sale-leaseback obligations-fixed (495.9 ) (61.0 ) - - Year-End 2007 Carrying Value Interest Rate Risk Equity Price Risk Foreign Currency Risk Cash equivalents $ 60.5 $ - $ - $ - Investment related receivables 0.4 - - - Restricted cash equivalents – non-current 45.3 - - - Available-for-sale securities: Equities Account – restricted 48.1 - (4.8 ) - DFR preferred stock 70.4 - (7.0 ) - Other 2.6 - (0.3 ) - Investment in Jurlique 8.5 - (0.9 ) (0.9 ) Investment derivatives in the Equities Account: Put option on market index 4.9 - (2.9 ) - Total return swap on an equity security 2.2 - (2.4 ) (0.2 ) Put and call option combinations on equity securities 0.5 - (1.4 ) - Other investments 7.4 - (0.7 ) - Interest rate swaps in an asset position 0.1 (0.5 ) - - DFR Notes 46.2 (0.5 ) - - Interest rate swaps in a liability position (0.4 ) (0.9 ) - - Put and call option combinations on equity securities (0.3 ) - (2.4 ) - Long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease and sale-leaseback obligations - variable (561.1 ) (20.6 ) - - The sensitivity analysis of financial instruments held at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 assumes (1) an instantaneous one percentage point adverse change in market interest rates, (2) an instantaneous 10% adverse change in the equity markets in which we are invested and (3) an instantaneous 10% adverse change in the foreign currency exchange rates versus the United States dollar, each from their levels at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively, and with all other variables held constant. The equity price risk reflects the impact of a 10% decrease in the carrying value of our equity securities, including those in “Other investments” in the tables above. The sensitivity analysis also assumes that the decreases in the equity markets and foreign exchange - 63 - - rates are other than temporary. We have not reduced the equity price risk for available-for-sale investments and cost investments to the extent of unrealized gains on certain of those investments, which would limit or eliminate the effect of the indicated market risk on our results of operations and, for cost investments, our financial position. Our cash equivalents and restricted cash equivalents included $36.8 million and $54.8 million, respectively, as of December 28, 2008 of bank money market accounts and interest-bearing brokerage and bank accounts which are all investments with a maturity of three months or less when acquired and are designed to maintain a stable value. As of December 28, 2008, we had amounts of both fixed-rate debt and variable-rate debt. On the fixed-rate debt, the interest rate risk presented with respect to our long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease and sale-leaseback obligations, primarily relates to the potential impact a decrease in interest rates of one percentage point has on the fair value of our $495.9 million of fixed-rate debt and not on our financial position or our results of operations. On the variable-rate debt, the interest rate risk presented with respect to our long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease and sale-leaseback obligations, represents the potential impact an increase in interest rates of one percentage point has on our results of operations related to our $385.0 million of variable-rate long-term debt outstanding as of December 28, 2008. As of December 30, 2007, a majority of our debt was variable-rate debt and therefore the interest rate risk presented with respect to our long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease and sale-leaseback obligations, represents the potential impact an increase in interest rates of one percentage point has on our results of operations related to our $561.1 million of variable-rate long-term debt outstanding as of December 30, 2007. Our variable-rate long-term debt outstanding as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 had a weighted average remaining maturity of approximately three years and four years, respectively. We had limited our interest rate risk on a portion of this debt by the use of interest rate swap agreements during all of 2007 and through October 2008. However, in the current interest environment, we do not currently plan to enter into new swaps. For investments in investment limited partnerships and similar investment entities, all of which are accounted for at cost, and other non-current investments included in “Other investments” in the tables above, the decrease in the equity markets and the change in foreign currency were assumed for this analysis to be other than temporary. To the extent such entities invest in convertible bonds which trade primarily on the conversion feature of the securities rather than on the stated interest rate, this analysis assumed equity price risk but no interest rate risk. The foreign currency risk presented excludes those investments where the investment manager has fully hedged the risk. - 64 - - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Glossary of Defined Terms 66 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 68 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 69 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 28,2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 70 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 28,2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 71 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 28,2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 74 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 78 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 78 (2) Significant Risks and Uncertainties 85 (3) Business Acquisitions and Dispositions 87 (4) DFR Notes 91 (5) Income (Loss) Per Share 91 (6) Short-Term Investments 93 (7) Balance Sheet Detail 94 (8) Investments 97 (9) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 101 (10) Long-Term Debt 104 (11) Gain (Loss) on Early Extinguishments of Debt 106 (12) Derivative Instruments 106 (13) Fair Value of Financial Instruments 108 (14) Income Taxes 110 (15) Stockholders’ Equity 113 (16) Share-Based Compensation 114 (17) Facilities Relocation and Corporate Restructuring 121 (18) Goodwill Impairment and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 122 (19) Investment Income, Net 123 (20) Other Than Temporary Losses on Investments 123 (21) Other Operating Expense (Income), Net 124 (22) Other Expense, Net 124 (23) Discontinued Operations 124 (24) Retirement Benefit Plans 125 (25) Lease Commitments 127 (26) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies 129 (27) Transactions with Related Parties 130 (28) Legal and Environmental Matters 136 (29) Advertising Costs and Funds 137 (30) Business Segments 138 (31) Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited) 142 - 65 - - Defined Term Footnote Where Defined 2005 Restricted Shares (16) Share-Based Compensation 2006 Restricted Shares (16) Share-Based Compensation 2007 Restricted Shares (16) Share-Based Compensation 2007 Trusts (17) Facilities Relocation and Corporate Restructuring 2008 Restricted Shares (16) Share-Based Compensation 280 BT (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 401(k) Plans (24) Retirement Benefit Plans ABP Plan (24) Retirement Benefit Plans Adams (28) Legal and Environmental Matters AFA (10) Long-Term Debt Affiliate Lease Guarantees (26) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies Amended Arby’s Term Loan (10) Long-Term Debt AmeriGas Eagle (26) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies AmeriGas Propane (26) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies APIC Pool (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Arby's (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Arby’s Credit Agreement (10) Long-Term Debt Arby's Restaurant (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Arby’s Restaurant Discontinued Operations (23) Discontinued Operations ARG (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies As Adjusted (3) Business Acquisitions and Dispositions Asset Management (30) Business Segments Bakery (2) Significant Risks and Uncertainties Bank Term Loan (10) Long-Term Debt Beverage Discontinued Operations (23) Discontinued Operations Black-Scholes Model (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies CAP (14) Income Taxes Capitalized Lease Obligations (10) Long-Term Debt Carrying Value Difference (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies CDOs (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies CERCLIS (28) Legal and Environmental Matters CEO (16) Share-Based Compensation Class A Common Shares (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Class A Common Stock (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Class A Options (16) Share-Based Compensation Class B Common Shares (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Class B Common Stock (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Class B Options (16) Share-Based Compensation Class B Units (16) Share-Based Compensation Co-Borrowers (10) Long-Term Debt Code (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Company (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Company’s Derivative Instruments (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Contingent Rent (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Contractual Settlements (17) Facilities Relocation and Corporate Restructuring Conversion (3) Business Acquisitions and Dispositions Convertible Notes (5) Income (Loss) Per Share Convertible Notes (10) Long-Term Debt Corporate Restructuring (17) Facilities Relocation and Corporate Restructuring Crew Plan (24) Retirement Benefit Plans Debentures (10) Long-Term Debt Deerfield (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Deerfield Capital (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Deerfield Equity Interests (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Deerfield Executive (27) Transactions with Related Parties Deerfield Executives (27) Transactions with Related Parties Deerfield Sale (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Deerfield Severance Agreement (27) Transactions with Related Parties Deferred Compensation Trusts (27) Transactions with Related Parties DFR (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies DFR Investments (8) Investments DFR Notes (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies DFR Restaurant Shares (8) Investments DFR Stock Purchasers (27) Transactions with Related Parties DM Fund (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Encore (8) Investments Equities Account (1) Investments Equity Funds (27) Transactions with Related Parties Equity Interests (16) Share-Based Compensation Equity Investments (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Equity Method (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Equity Plans (16) Share-Based Compensation FASB (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies FDEP (28) Legal and Environmental Matters FIN 48 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Form S-4 (28) Legal and Environmental Matters Former Executives (16) Share-Based Compensation Former Senior Officers (16) Share-Based Compensation Foundation (27) Transactions with Related Parties FSP (13) Fair Value of Financial Instruments FSP 13-1 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies FSP AIR-1 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies FSP FAS 142-3 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies FSP FAS 157-1 (13) Fair Value of Financial Instruments FSP FAS 157-2 (13) Fair Value of Financial Instruments FSP FAS 157-3 (13) Fair Value of Financial Instruments Funds (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Helicopter Interests (27) Transactions with Related Parties Incentive Fee Shares (8) Investments Investments (3) Business Acquisitions and Dispositions Iron Curtain (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies IRS (15) Stockholders’ Equity Jurl (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies K12 (27) Transactions with Related Parties Lease Guarantees (26) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies LIBOR (4) DFR Notes LLC (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Management Company (1) Transactions with Related Parties Management Company Employees (27) Transactions with Related Parties Market Value Approach (13) Fair Value of Financial Instruments National Propane (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Net Exercise Features (16) Share-Based Compensation Notes Payable (10) Long-Term Debt Opportunities Fund (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Other Than Temporary Losses (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Package Options (16) Share-Based Compensation Payment Obligations (17) Facilities Relocation and Corporate Restructuring Preferred Stock (3) Business Acquisitions and Dispositions Principals (27) Transactions with Related Parties Profit Interests (16) Share-Based Compensation Rent Holiday (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies RTM (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies RTM Acquisition (1) Business Acquisitions and Dispositions Rollover (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SAB 108 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Sale-Leaseback Obligations (10) Long-Term Debt SEC (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Senior Notes (10) Long-Term Debt Separation Date (17) Facilities Relocation and Corporate Restructuring SEPSCO (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SEPSCO Discontinued Operations (23) Discontinued Operations Services Agreement (27) Transactions with Related Parties SFAS (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 13 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 45 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 123 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - 66 - - SFAS 123(R) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 133 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 141 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 141(R) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 142 (18) Goodwill Impairment and Impairment of Other Long-Lived Assets SFAS 157 (13) Fair Value of Financial Instruments SFAS 160 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies SFAS 161 (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Special Committee (27) Transactions with Related Parties Straight-Line Rent (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Sublease (27) Transactions with Related Parties Swap Agreements (12) Derivative Insturments Sybra (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Syrup (26) Guarantees and Other Commitments and Contingencies TDH (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies THI (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies TimWen (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Triarc (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies We (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Wendy’s (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Wendy’s/Arby’s (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Wendy’s Crew (24) Retirement Benefit Plans Wendy’s Merger (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Wendy’s Revolver (10) Long-Term Debt - 67 - - REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. Atlanta, Georgia We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. (formerly Triarc Companies, Inc.) and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. As discussed in Notes 1, 14 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements, effective December 31, 2006, the Company elected application of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements and, effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes and FASB Staff Position No. AUG-AIR-1, Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2008, based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 13, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. /s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP Atlanta, Georgia March 13, 2009 - 68 - - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In Thousands) December 28, December 30, 2008 2007 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 90,090 $ 78,116 Restricted cash equivalents 20,792 - Accounts and notes receivable 97,258 27,610 Inventories 24,646 11,067 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 28,990 28,540 Deferred income tax benefit 37,923 24,921 Advertising fund restricted assets 81,139 - Total current assets 380,838 170,254 Restricted cash equivalents 34,032 45,295 Notes receivable 34,608 46,429 Investments 133,052 141,909 Properties 1,770,372 504,874 Goodwill 853,775 468,778 Other intangible assets 1,411,473 45,318 Deferred costs and other assets 27,470 27,660 Deferred income tax benefit - 4,050 Total assets $ 4,645,620 $ 1,454,567 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Current portion of long-term debt $ 30,426 $ 27,802 Accounts payable 139,340 54,297 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 247,334 117,785 Advertising fund restricted liabilities 81,139 - Liabilities related to discontinued operations 4,250 7,279 Total current liabilities 502,489 207,163 Long-term debt 1,081,151 711,531 Deferred income 16,859 10,861 Deferred income taxes 475,243 - Other liabilities 186,587 76,138 Commitments and contingencies Stockholders’ equity: Class A common stock, $.10 par value; shares authorized: 1,500,000; 47,042 2,955 shares issued: 470,424 and 29,551 (a) Class B common stock, $.10 par value; shares authorized none and 150,000; - 6,402 shares issued: none and 64,025 (a) Additional paid-in capital 2,752,987 291,122 Retained (deficit) earnings (357,541 ) 167,267 Common stock held in treasury (15,944 ) (16,774 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (43,253 ) (2,098 ) Total stockholders’ equity 2,383,291 448,874 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 4,645,620 $ 1,454,567 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. (a) In connection with the September 29, 2008 merger with Wendy’s International, Inc. (Wendy’s), Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. stockholders approved a charter amendment to convert each of the then outstanding shares of Triarc Companies, Inc. Class B common stock into one share of Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. Class A common stock. - 69 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts) Year Ended December 28, December 30, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Sales $ 1,662,291 $ 1,113,436 $ 1,073,271 Franchise revenues 160,470 86,981 82,001 Asset management and related fees - 63,300 88,006 1,822,761 1,263,717 1,243,278 Costs and expenses: Cost of sales 1,415,534 894,450 857,211 Cost of services - 25,183 35,277 General and administrative 248,718 205,375 235,776 Depreciation and amortization 88,315 66,277 60,673 Goodwill impairment 460,075 - - Impairment of other long-lived assets 19,203 7,045 5,554 Facilities relocation and corporate restructuring 3,913 85,417 3,273 Gain on sale of consolidated business - (40,193 ) - Other operating expense, net 653 263 887 2,236,411 1,243,817 1,198,651 Operating (loss) profit (413,650 ) 19,900 44,627 Interest expense (67,009 ) (61,331 ) (114,088 ) Gain (loss) on early extinguishments of debt 3,656 - (14,082 ) Investment income, net 9,438 62,110 84,318 Other than temporary losses on investments (112,741 ) (9,909 ) (4,120 ) Other income (expense), net (606 ) (1,356 ) 8,677 (Loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes and minority interests (580,912 ) 9,414 5,332 Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 99,294 8,354 (4,612 ) Minority interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries (340 ) (2,682 ) (11,523 ) (Loss) income from continuing operations (481,958 ) 15,086 (10,803 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 2,217 995 (129 ) Net (loss) income $ (479,741 ) $ 16,081 $ (10,932 ) Basic and diluted (loss) income per share : Class A common stock (a): Continuing operations $ (3.06 ) $ .15 $ (.13 ) Discontinued operations .01 .01 - Net (loss) income $ (3.05 ) $ .16 $ (.13 ) Class B common stock (a): Continuing operations $ (1.26 ) $ .17 $ (.13 ) Discontinued operations .02 .01 - Net (loss) income $ (1.24 ) $ .18 $ (.13 ) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. (a) In connection with the September 29, 2008 merger with Wendy’s, Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. stockholders approved a charter amendment to convert each of the then existing Triarc Companies, Inc. Class B common stock into one share of Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. Class A common stock. - 70 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, IN C. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (In Thousands) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Class A Common Stock Class B Common Stock Additional Paid-in Capital Retained (Deficit) Earnings Common Stock Held in Treasury Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Available- for-Sale Securities Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedges Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment Unrecog- nized Pension Loss Total Balance at December 30 2007 $ 2,955 $ 6,402 $ 291,122 $ 167,267 $ (16,774 ) $ (2,104 ) $ (155 ) $ 689 $ (528 ) $ 448,874 Comprehensive income (loss): Net loss - - - (479,741 ) - - - - - (479,741 ) Change in unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities - - - - - 2,212 - - - 2,212 Change in unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges - - - - - - 155 - - 155 Foreign currency translation adjustment - - - - - - - (43,002 ) - (43,002 ) Unrecognized pension loss - - - - - - - - (520 ) (520 ) Comprehensive loss (520,896 ) Cash dividends - - - (30,538 ) - - - - - (30,538 ) Accrued dividends on nonvested restricted stock - - - (65 ) - - - - - (65 ) Distribution of Deerfield Capital Corp. common stock - - - (14,464 ) - - - - - (14,464 ) Share-based compensation expense - 2 9,127 - - - - - - 9,129 Wendy’s International Inc. merger-related transactions: Conversion of Class B common stock to Class A common stock 6,410 (6,410 ) - - - - - - - - Value of Wendy’s stock options converted into Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. options - - 18,495 - - - - - - 18,495 Common stock issuance related to merger of Triarc Companies, Inc. and Wendy’s International Inc. 37,678 - 2,438,519 - - - - - - 2,476,197 Common stock issued upon exercises of stock options - - (45 ) - 60 - - - - 15 Common stock issued upon vesting or issuance, as applicable, of restricted stock - 1 (3,654 ) - 3,627 - - - - (26 ) Common stock withheld as payment for withholding taxes on capital stock transactions - - - - (2,989 ) - - - - (2,989 ) Other (1 ) 5 (577 ) - 132 - - - - (441 ) Balance at December 28, 2008 $ 47,042 $ - $ 2,752,987 $ (357,541 ) $ (15,944 ) $ 108 $ - $ (42,313 ) $ (1,048 ) $ 2,383,291 - 71 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY - CONTINUED (In Thousands) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Class A Common Stock Class B Common Stock Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Common Stock Held in Treasury Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Available- for-Sale Securities Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Cash Flow Hedges Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment Unrecog- nized Pension Loss Total Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 2,955 $ 6,366 $ 311,609 $ 185,726 $ (43,695 ) $ 13,353 $ 2,237 $ (47 ) $ (691 ) $ 477,813 Cumulative effect of change in accounting for uncertainty in income taxes - - - (2,275 ) - - - - - (2,275 ) Balance as adjusted at December 31, 2006 2,955 6,366 311,609 183,451 (43,695 ) 13,353 2,237 (47 ) (691 ) 475,538 Comprehensive income (loss): Net income - - - 16,081 - - - - - 16,081 Change in unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities - - - - - (15,457 ) - - - (15,457 ) Change in unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges - - - - - - (2,392 ) - - (2,392 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment - - - - - - - 736 - 736 Recovery of unrecognized pension loss - - - - - - - - 163 163 Comprehensive income (loss) (869 ) Cash dividends - - - (32,117 ) - - - - - (32,117 ) Accrued dividends on nonvested restricted stock - - - (148 ) - - - - - (148 ) Share-based compensation expense - - 9,990 - - - - - - 9,990 Common stock issued upon exercises of stock options - 33 (2,197 ) - 3,534 - - - - 1,370 Common stock received or withheld for exercises of stock options - (15 ) 1,962 - (1,947 ) - - - - - Common stock issued upon vesting or issuance, as applicable, of restricted stock - 23 (8,005 ) - 7,982 - - - - - Common stock withheld as payment for withholding taxes on capital stock transactions - (5 ) (682 ) - (4,108 ) - - - - (4,795 ) Other - - (21,555 ) - 21,460 - - - - (95 ) Balance at December 30, 2007 $ 2,955 $ 6,402 $ 291,122 $ 167,267 $ (16,774 ) $ (2,104 ) $ (155 ) $ 689 $ (528 ) $ 448,874 - 72 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY - CONTINUED (In Thousands) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Class A Common Stock Class B Common Stock Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Common Stock Held in Treasury Unearned Compensation/Note Receivable from Non-Executive Officer Unrealized Gain (Loss) on Available- for-Sale Securities Unrealized Gain on Cash Flow Hedges Foreign Currency Translation Adjustment Unrecog- nized Pension Loss Total Balance at January 1, 2006 $ 2,955 $ 5,910 $ 264,770 $ 262,059 $ (130,179 ) $ (12,622 ) $ 4,376 $ 2,048 $ 45 $ (1,018 ) $ 398,344 Cumulative effect of unrecorded adjustments from prior years - - - 5,190 - - - - - - 5,190 Balance, as adjusted, at January 1, 2006 2,955 5,910 264,770 267,249 (130,179 ) (12,622 ) 4,376 2,048 45 (1,018 ) 403,534 Comprehensive income (loss): Net loss - - - (10,932 ) - - - - - - (10,932 ) Change in unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities - - - - - - 8,977 - - - 8,977 Change in unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges - - - - - - - 189 - - 189 Foreign currency translation adjustment - - - - - - - (92 ) - (92 ) Recovery of unrecognized pension loss - - - - - - - - - 327 327 Comprehensive income (loss) (1,531 ) Common stock issued upon conversion and effective conversion of convertible notes - 163 71,460 - 106,195 - - - - - 177,818 Cash dividends - - - (70,040 ) - - - - - - (70,040 ) Accrued dividends on nonvested restricted stock - - - (551 ) - - - - - - (551 ) Reversal of unearned compensation - - (12,103 ) - - 12,103 - - - - - Share-based compensation expense - - 15,889 - - - - - - - 15,889 Common stock issued upon exercises of stock options - 1,139 (149,340 ) - 156,797 - - - - - 8,596 Common stock received or withheld for exercise of stock options - (646 ) 162,348 - (161,702 ) - - - - - - Common stock issued upon vesting of restricted stock - - (2,758 ) - 2,758 - - - - - - Common stock withheld as payment for withholding taxes on capital stock transactions - (200 ) (38,776 ) - (17,600 ) - - - - - (56,576 ) Collection of note receivable from non-executive officer - - - - - 519 - - - - 519 Other - - 119 - 36 - - - - - 155 Balance at December 31, 2006 $ 2,955 $ 6,366 $ 311,609 $ 185,726 $ (43,695 ) $ - $ 13,353 $ 2,237 $ (47 ) $ (691 ) $ 477,813 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements - 73 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In Thousands) Year Ended December 28, December 30, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Cash flows from continuing operating activities: Net (loss) income $ (479,741 ) $ 16,081 $ (10,932 ) Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to net cash provided by continuing operating activities: Goodwill impairment 460,075 - - Operating investment adjustments, net (see below) 105,357 (33,525 ) 574,393 Depreciation and amortization 88,315 66,277 60,673 Impairment of other long-lived assets 19,203 7,045 5,554 Share-based compensation provision 9,129 9,990 15,889 Write-off and amortization of deferred financing costs 8,885 2,038 7,121 Non-cash rent expense 3,103 1,528 875 Minority interests in income of consolidated subsidiaries 340 2,682 11,523 Deferred income tax benefit (105,276 ) (10,777 ) (14 ) Net (recognition) receipt of deferred vendor incentive (6,459 ) (990 ) 5,828 Payment of withholding taxes relating to share-based compensation (2,989 ) (4,795 ) (56,576 ) (Income) loss from discontinued operations (2,217 ) (995 ) 129 Gain on sale of consolidated business - (40,193 ) - Other, net 2,775 2,970 (5,873 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Accounts and notes receivable (4,187 ) 15,022 2,771 Inventories (140 ) (987 ) 1,072 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 8,808 (3,123 ) (2,719 ) Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other current liabilities (31,376 ) (7,444 ) (7,663 ) Net cash provided by continuing operating activities (a) 73,605 20,804 602,051 Cash flows from continuing investing activities: Capital expenditures (106,989 ) (72,990 ) (80,250 ) Proceeds from dispositions 1,322 2,734 8,081 Costs of the merger with Wendy’s (18,403 ) (2,017 ) - Increase in cash from the merger with Wendy’s 199,785 - - Cost of other business acquisitions, less cash acquired (9,622 ) (4,094 ) (2,886 ) Decrease in cash related to the sale of a consolidated business - (15,104 ) - Investing investment activities, net (see below) 51,066 51,531 (426,653 ) Other, net (228 ) 16 (2,737 ) Net cash provided by (used in) continuing investing activities 116,931 (39,924 ) (504,445 ) Cash flows from continuing financing activities: Proceeds from long-term debt 37,753 23,060 25,876 Repayments of notes payable and long-term debt (177,883 ) (24,505 ) (76,721 ) Dividends paid (30,538 ) (32,117 ) (70,040 ) Distributions to minority interests (1,144 ) (13,494 ) (39,932 ) Other, net (1,113 ) (3,147 ) 8,596 Net cash used in continuing financing activities (172,925 ) (50,203 ) (152,221 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (4,123 ) - - Net cash provided by (used in) continuing operations 13,488 (69,323 ) (54,615 ) Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations (1,514 ) (713 ) (73 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 11,974 (70,036 ) (54,688 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 78,116 148,152 202,840 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 90,090 $ 78,116 $ 148,152 - 74 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - CONTINUED (In Thousands) Year Ended December 28, December 30, December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Detail of cash flows related to investments (a): Operating investment adjustments, net: Other than temporary losses on investments (b) $ 112,741 $ 9,909 $ 4,120 Net recognized (gains) losses from trading securities, derivatives, and securities sold short (7,281 ) (3,686 ) 262 Other net recognized gains (103 ) (47,721 ) (10,822 ) Proceeds from sales of trading securities and net settlements of trading derivatives - 6,017 7,411,584 Cost of trading securities purchased - (230 ) (6,832,255 ) Other, net - 2,186 1,504 $ 105,357 $ (33,525 ) $ 574,393 Investing investment activities, net (a): Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities and other investments $ 90,825 $ 161,857 $ 169,524 Proceeds from securities sold short 45,923 - 8,624,893 Decrease (increase) in restricted cash collateralizing securities obligations or held for investment 17,724 (34,297 ) 335,001 Cost of available-for-sale securities and other non-trading investments purchased (86,853 ) (76,029 ) (91,105 ) Payments to cover short positions in securities (16,553 ) - (8,943,610 ) Net payments under repurchase agreements - - (521,356 ) $ 51,066 $ 51,531 $ (426,653 ) Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information: Cash paid during the year in continuing operations for: Interest $ 61,192 $ 57,309 $ 119,968 Income taxes, net of refunds $ 5,094 $ 5,455 $ 1,265 Supplemental schedule of noncash investing and financing activities: Total capital expenditures $ 115,419 $ 87,456 $ 97,946 Capital expenditures paid in cash $ (106,989 ) $ (72,990 ) $ (80,250 ) Non-cash capitalized lease and certain sales-leaseback obligations $ 8,430 $ 14,466 $ 17,696 Non-cash additions to long-term debt from acquisitions $ 9,621 $ 3,366 $ 7,194 (a) Net cash provided by continuing operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 reflects the significant net sales of trading securities and net settlements of trading derivatives, the proceeds from which were principally used to cover short positions in securities and make payments under repurchase agreements. These purchases and sales were principally transacted through an investment fund, Deerfield Opportunities Fund, LLC (the “Opportunities Fund”), which employed leverage in its trading activities and which, through September 29, 2006, was consolidated in these consolidated financial statements. Wendy’s/Arby’s (collectively with its subsidiaries, the “Company”) effectively redeemed its investment in the Opportunities Fund, which in turn had liquidated substantially all of its investment positions, effective September 29, 2006. Accordingly, we no longer consolidate the cash flows of the Opportunities Fund subsequent to September 29, 2006. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the net sales (purchases) of trading securities and the net settlements of trading derivatives must be reported in continuing operating activities, while the net proceeds from (payments to cover) securities sold short and the payments under repurchase agreements are reported in continuing investing activities. (b) The 2008 amount relates to other than temporary losses on investments including $68,086 for a write down of our investment in Deerfield Capital Corp. common stock as described in Note 3, $21,227 for an allowance for doubtful accounts on our DFR notes as described in Note 4, $8,504 for a write down of our entire remaining investment in Jurlique International Pty Ltd. as described in Note 20, $13,109 for reductions in the value of certain of our available for sale securities as described in Note 8, and $1,815 in a cost investment. - 75 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - CONTINUED (In Thousands) Due to their non-cash nature, the following transactions are not reflected in the respective consolidated statements of cash flows: On September 29, 2008, the Company completed its merger with Wendy’s International, Inc. (“Wendy’s”). Total preliminary equity consideration of $2,494,692 included $2,476,197 of Wendy’s/Arby’s common stock issued in exchange for Wendy’s common shares and $18,495 of value for Wendy’s stock options that have been converted into Wendy’s/Arby’s options. The accounting for this merger is preliminary and is subject to change. In conjunction with this merger, assets were acquired and liabilities were assumed as follows (in thousands): Fair value of assets acquired, including cash acquired of $199,785 $ 3,958,204 Liabilities assumed $ 1,463,512 During 2008, the Company acquired 41 restaurants in the California market and, included in the consideration, was the assumption of $6,239 of debt. See Note 3 for further disclosure of these acquisitions. In connection with the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock, the Company withheld from delivery to employees, the following number of shares of the Company’s class A and class B common stock during each of the years presented to satisfy minimum statutory withholding taxes in connection with the delivery of shares upon the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock: 2008 2007 2006 Class A common stock 591 1,150 763,519 Class B common stock 25 281,175 2,087,442 The aggregate value of shares withheld to satisfy minimum withholding taxes was recorded in "Stockholders' equity" in the following manner, all offset by an increase in “Accrued expenses and other current liabilities,” representing the fair value of the shares withheld for taxes : 2008 2007 2006 Class B common stock $ - $ 5 $ 200 Additional paid-in capital - 682 38,776 Common stock held in treasury 2,989 4,108 17,600 Total $ 2,989 $ 4,795 $ 56,576 During 2008, the Company distributed 9,835 shares of DFR common stock, which included the conversion of the preferred stock referred to above and the 206 common shares of DFR distributed to us in connection with the Deerfield Sale, to its stockholders. On December 21, 2007, the Company completed the sale of its 63.6% capital interest in Deerfield & Company, LLC (“the Deerfield Sale”), its former asset management business, to Deerfield Capital Corp. (“DFR”), resulting in non-cash proceeds aggregating $134,608 consisting of (1) 9,629 preferred shares of a subsidiary of DFR with a then estimated fair value of $88,398 and (2) $47,986 principal amount of series A senior secured notes of DFR due in December 2012 with a then estimated fair value of $46,210. The sale resulted in a use of cash of $15,104, of which $13,609 relates to cash and cash equivalents included in the asset management business at the time of the sale and $1,495 relates to fees and expenses paid. See Note 3 for further disclosure of this disposition and the dividend of DFR common stock. During 2006, an aggregate $172,900 principal amount of the Company’s 5% convertible notes due 2023 (the “Convertible Notes”) were converted or effectively converted into an aggregate of 4,323 shares of class A common stock and 8,645 shares of class B common stock (see Note 10). In order to induce the effective conversions, the Company paid negotiated premiums aggregating $8,998 to certain converting noteholders consisting of cash of $4,975 and 244 shares of class B common stock with an aggregate fair value of $4,023 based on the closing market price of the Company’s class B common stock on the dates of the effective conversions. The aggregate resulting increase to “Stockholders’ equity” was $177,818 consisting of the $172,900 principal amount of the Convertible Notes, the $4,023 fair value for the shares issued for premiums and the $895 fair value of 54,000 shares of class B common stock issued to certain note holders who agreed to receive such shares in lieu of a cash payment for accrued interest. - 76 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - CONTINUED (In Thousands) On December 14, 2006 the Company amended all outstanding stock options under its equity plans to permit optionees to pay both the exercise price and applicable minimum statutory withholding taxes by having the Company withhold shares that would have been issued to the optionee upon exercise. During 2006 the Company withheld from delivery to employees of the Company an aggregate of 1,720 and 6,466 shares of the Company’s class A and class B common stock, respectively, to pay the exercise price related to the exercise of stock options. The aggregate fair value of the shares withheld of $162,348 was recorded within “Stockholders’ equity,” consisting of charges of $161,702 to “Common stock held in treasury” and $646 to “Class B common stock,” both with an equal offsetting increase in “Additional paid-in capital.” Prior to 2006, the Company granted certain officers and key employees 149 and 731 contingently issuable performance-based restricted shares of class A common stock and class B common stock (the “2005 Restricted Shares”), respectively, under one of its equity plans. The 2005 Restricted Shares vest or vested ratably over three years, subject to meeting, in each case, certain increasing class B common stock market price targets. An aggregate of 99 and 49 restricted shares of class A common stock and 482 and 243 restricted shares of class B common stock each in 2007 and 2006, respectively, vested and the aggregate fair value of the shares vested of $7,982 and $2,758 in 2007 and 2006, respectively, was recorded within “Stockholders’ equity” as a charge to “Additional paid-in capital” with an equal offsetting credit in “Common stock held in treasury.” The remaining 6 unissued restricted shares of class B common stock were cancelled. See Notes 15 and 16 for further disclosure of this transaction. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements - 77 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts) (1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Principles of consolidation Effective September 29, 2008, in conjunction with the merger (the “Wendy’s Merger”) with Wendy’s International, Inc. (“Wendy’s”) the corporate name of Triarc Companies, Inc. (“Triarc”) changed to Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. (“Wendy’s/Arby’s” and, together with its subsidiaries, the “Company” or “We”). The merger is being accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, Business Combinations. In accordance with this standard, we have concluded that Wendy’s/Arby’s is the acquirer for financial accounting purposes. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Wendy’s subsequent to September 29, 2008. The principal subsidiaries of the Company as of December 28, 2008 are Wendy’s and Arby’s Restaurant Group, Inc. (“ARG”). ARG is a wholly-owned subsidiary that owns Arby’s, LLC (“Arby’s”), Sybra, LLC (“Sybra”) and Arby’s Restaurant, LLC (“Arby’s Restaurant”). Sybra and Arby’s Restaurant own the entities comprising the RTM Restaurant Group (“RTM”), which was acquired by the Company in 2005 (the “RTM Acquisition”). Deerfield & Company, LLC (“Deerfield”) was also a principal subsidiary of the Company until it was sold (the “Deerfield Sale”) on December 21, 2007. As of January 3, 2005, the Company owned, through Triarc Deerfield Holdings, LLC (“TDH”), a then wholly owned subsidiary, a 63.6% capital interest and a 61.5% profits interest in Deerfield. Deerfield owns Deerfield Capital Management LLC (“Deerfield Capital”). On November 10, 2005, pursuant to an equity arrangement approved by the Company, certain members of Triarc’s then current management subscribed for equity interests (the “Deerfield Equity Interests”) in TDH, each of which consisted of a capital interest portion and a profits interest portion. The Deerfield Equity Interests had the effective result of reducing the Company’s 61.5% interest in the profits of Deerfield to as low as 52.3%, depending on the level of Deerfield profits. As defined in the TDH equity arrangement, the Deerfield Sale is an event of dissolution. As a result, TDH was liquidated and its remaining assets distributed during 2008 to its members as calculated in accordance with the equity arrangement. The 2006 consolidated financial statements also include the accounts of Deerfield Opportunities Fund, LLC (the “Opportunities Fund”) and the DM Fund, LLC (the “DM Fund”) in which the Company owned a 67% capital interest through the dates of the Company’s effective redemptions of its investments on September 29, 2006 and December 31, 2006, respectively. The Company’s other subsidiaries as of December 28, 2008 that are referred to in these notes to consolidated financial statements include National Propane Corporation (“National Propane”); SEPSCO, LLC (“SEPSCO”); Citrus Acquisition Corporation which owns 100% of Adams Packing Association, Inc. (“Adams”); Madison West Associates Corp. which owns 80.1% of 280 BT Holdings LLC (“280 BT”); and Jurl Holdings, LLC (“Jurl”) (see Note 27). The Company consolidates local Arby’s advertising cooperatives for which the Company has a greater than 50% voting interest (43 cooperatives as of December 28, 2008). The Company also participates in three national advertising funds established to collect and administer funds contributed for use in advertising and promotional programs for Company-owned and franchised stores. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 45, “Accounting for Franchisee Fee Revenue” (“SFAS 45”), the revenue, expenses and cash flows of all such advertising funds are not included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations or Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows because the contributions to these advertising funds are designated for specific purposes, and the Company acts as an, in substance, agent with regard to these contributions. The restricted assets and liabilities are reported as “Advertising fund restricted assets” and “Advertising fund restricted liabilities”, respectively on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 28, 2008. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. See Note 3 for further disclosure of the acquisitions and dispositions referred to above. Fiscal year Our fiscal reporting periods consist of 52 weeks ending on the Sunday closest to December 31 and are referred to herein as (1) “the year ended December 28, 2008” or “2008” which commenced on December 31, 2007 and ended on December 28, 2008, (2) “the year ended December 30, 2007” or “2007” which commenced on January 1, 2007 and ended on December 30, 2007, and (3) “the year ended December 31, 2006” or “2006” which commenced on January 2, 2006 and ended on December 31, 2006 except that (a) Deerfield and the DM Fund were included on a calendar year basis and (b) the Opportunities Fund was included from January 1, 2006 through its September 29, 2006 redemption date. Balances presented as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 are referred to herein as “as of Year-End 2008” and “as of Year-End 2007,” respectively. With the exception of Deerfield, the Opportunities Fund, and the DM Fund, which reported on a calendar year basis, all references to years relate to fiscal periods rather than calendar periods. The difference in reporting basis in 2006 is not material to our consolidated financial statements. - 78 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) Cash equivalents All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when acquired are considered cash equivalents. The Company’s cash equivalents principally consist of cash in bank, money market and mutual fund money market accounts and are primarily not in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured accounts. Accounts and notes receivable Accounts and notes receivable consist primarily of royalty and franchise fee receivables, credit card receivables, rent and recoverable income tax. The need for an allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed on a specific franchisee basis based upon past due balances and the financial strength of the franchisee. Notes receivable (non-current) Notes receivable (non-current) consist of the (1) notes receivable (“DFR Notes”) due from Deerfield Capital Corp. (“DFR”) received as proceeds in the Deerfield Sale (see Note 4 regarding collectability) and (2) notes receivable for franchisee obligations. The need for an allowance for doubtful accounts is reviewed on a specific identification basis based upon past due balances and the financial strength of the franchisee. Inventories The Company’s inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost determined in accordance with the first-in, first-out method, and consist primarily of restaurant food items, kids’ meal toys and paper supplies. Investments Short-term investments Short-term investments consist of marketable equity securities with readily determinable fair values. The Company’s marketable equity securities are classified and accounted for as “available-for-sale” and are reported at fair market value with the resulting net unrealized holding gains or losses, net of income taxes, reported as a separate component of comprehensive income (loss) bypassing net income. The Company uses the specific identification method to determine the amount reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings or losses of securities sold for all marketable securities. See Note 6 for further disclosure of the Company’s short-term investments. Investments The Company’s investments (see Note 8) include (1) investments included in brokerage accounts (“Equities Account”) being managed by a management company (the “Management Company”) (see Note 27), (2) our 50% share in a partnership in a Canadian restaurant real estate joint venture (“TimWen”) with Tim Hortons Inc. (“THI”), (3) investments in preferred and common stock of DFR (see Note 3), and (4) cost investments. Investments in limited partnerships and other non-current investments in which we do not have significant influence over the investees are recorded at cost (the “Cost Method”), and for which realized gains and losses are reported as income or loss in the period in which the securities are sold or otherwise disposed. Investments in which we have significant influence over the investees (“Equity Investments”) are accounted for in accordance with the “Equity Method” of accounting under which our results of operations include our share of the income or loss of the investees. Unrealized holding gains or losses, net of income taxes, for derivatives are reported as a component of net income or loss. The difference, if any, between the carrying value of the Company’s Equity Investments and its underlying equity in the net assets of each investee (the “Carrying Value Difference”) is accounted for as if the investee were a consolidated subsidiary. Accordingly, the Carrying Value Difference is amortized over the estimated lives of the assets of the investee to which such difference would have been allocated if the Equity Investment were a consolidated subsidiary. To the extent the Carrying Value Difference represents goodwill, it is not amortized. See Note 8 for further disclosure of the Company’s Investments. - 79 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) Securities sold with an obligation to purchase Securities sold with an obligation to purchase are reported at fair market value with the resulting net unrealized gains or losses included as a component of net income or loss. All investments The Company reviews all of its investments with unrealized losses and recognizes investment losses currently for any unrealized losses deemed to be other than temporary (“Other Than Temporary Losses”). These investment losses are recognized as a component of net income. For investments other than preferred shares of collateralized debt obligation vehicles (“CDOs”) for which the Company acted as collateral manager through the date of the Deerfield Sale, the Company considers such factors as the length of time the market value of an investment has been below its carrying value, the severity of the decline, the financial condition of the investee and the prospect for future recovery in the market value of the investment, including the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investments for a period of time sufficient for a forecasted recovery. With respect to available-for-sale securities, the effect of the permanent reduction in the cost basis is an increase in the net unrealized gain or a decrease in the net unrealized loss on the available-for-sale investments component of “Comprehensive income (loss).” The cost-basis component of investments represents original cost less a permanent reduction for any unrealized losses that were deemed to be other than temporary. For preferred shares of CDOs, the Company considered, through the date of the Deerfield Sale, whether there had been any adverse change in the estimated cash flows of the investments in the CDOs as well as the prospect for future recovery, including the Company’s ability and intent to hold the investments for a period of time sufficient for a forecasted recovery. Properties and depreciation and amortization Properties are stated at cost, including internal costs of employees to the extent such employees are dedicated to specific restaurant construction projects, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization of properties is computed principally on the straight-line basis using the following estimated useful lives of the related major classes of properties: 1 to 15 years for office and restaurant equipment, 3 to 15 years for transportation equipment, 7 to 30 years for buildings and 7 to 20 years for owned site improvements. Leased assets capitalized and leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the terms of the respective leases, including periods covered by renewal options that the Company believes it is reasonably assured of exercising. Amortization of intangibles and deferred costs Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value of the acquired net assets, is not amortized. Other intangible assets are amortized on the straight-line basis using the following estimated useful lives of the related classes of intangibles: the terms of the respective leases, including periods covered by renewal options that the Company is reasonably assured of exercising, for favorable leases; 21 years for franchise agreements, 1 to 5 years for costs of computer software, 20 years for reacquired rights under franchise agreements, 15 years for trademarks with a definite life and distribution rights, except those acquired in the Wendy’s Merger, and 3 to 8 years for non-compete agreements. Trademarks acquired in the Wendy’s Merger have an indefinite life and are not amortized. Asset management contracts, through the date of the Deerfield Sale, were amortized on the straight-line basis over their estimated lives of 5 to 27 years for CDO contracts and 15 years for contracts under which the Company managed investment funds Deferred financing costs, original issue debt discount, and adjustments to fair value of debt for purchase price adjustments related to the Wendy’s Merger (see Note 3) are amortized as interest expense over the lives of the respective debt using the interest rate method. See Note 9 for further information with respect to the Company’s intangible assets. Impairments Goodwill The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired, by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit, using discounted cash flows or market multiples based on earnings, to the carrying value to determine if there is an indication that a potential impairment may exist. If we determine that an impairment may exist, we then measure the amount of the impairment loss as the excess, if any, of the carrying amount of the goodwill over its implied fair value. In determining the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill, the Company allocates the fair value - 80 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) of a reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the price paid to acquire the reporting unit. The excess of the fair value of the unit over the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Following the Wendy’s Merger, the Company operates in two business segments consisting of two restaurant brands: (1) Wendy’s restaurant operations and (2) Arby’s restaurant operations. Each segment includes Company-owned restaurants and franchise reporting units which are considered to be separate reporting units for purposes of measuring goodwill impairment under SFAS 142. See Notes 9 and 18 for further disclosure related to the Company’s Goodwill impairment. Long-lived assets The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If such review indicates an asset may not be recoverable, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of an asset to be held and used or over the fair value less cost to sell of an asset to be disposed. See Note 18 for further disclosure related to the Company’s impairment charges. Derivative instruments The Company’s derivative instruments, excluding those that may be settled in its own stock and therefore not subject to the guidance in SFAS No. 133 “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” (“SFAS 133”), are recorded at fair value (the “Company’s Derivative Instruments”). Changes in fair value of the Company’s Derivative Instruments that have been designated as cash flow hedging instruments are included in the “Unrealized gain (loss) on cash flow hedges” component of “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity to the extent of the effectiveness of such hedging instruments. Any ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the designated hedging instruments is included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Changes in fair value of the Company’s Derivative Instruments that have not been designated as hedging instruments are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 12 for further disclosure related to the Company’s derivative instruments. Share-Based Compensation Effective January 2, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”), which revised SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”). As a result, the Company now measures the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, including grants of employee stock options and restricted stock, based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant. The Company previously used the intrinsic value method. Under the intrinsic value method, compensation cost for the Company’s stock options was measured as the excess, if any, of the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock (the “Class A Common Stock” or “Class A Common Shares”), and/or Class B common stock, series 1 (the “Class B Common Stock” or “Class B Common Shares”), as applicable, at the date of grant, or at any subsequent measurement date as a result of certain types of modifications to the terms of its stock options, over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock. The Company is using the modified prospective application method under SFAS 123(R) and has elected not to use retrospective application. Thus, amortization of the fair value of all nonvested grants as of January 2, 2006, as determined under the previous pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS 123, except as adjusted for estimated forfeitures, is included in the Company’s results of operations commencing January 2, 2006. As required under SFAS 123(R), the Company reversed the unamortized “Unearned compensation” component of “Stockholders’ equity” with an equal offsetting reduction of “Additional paid-in capital” as of January 2, 2006 and is now recognizing compensation expense during the year determined in accordance with SFAS 123(R) as disclosed herein with an equal offsetting increase in “Additional paid-in capital.” Additionally, effective with the adoption of SFAS 123(R), the Company recognizes share-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures, determined based on historical experience. Previously, forfeitures were recognized as incurred. Under SFAS 123(R), the Company has chosen (1) the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model (the “Black-Scholes Model”) for purposes of determining the fair value of stock options granted commencing January 2, 2006 and (2) to continue recognizing compensation costs ratably over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award. As permitted under the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, “Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards,” the Company elected the specified “short-cut” method to calculate its beginning hypothetical pool of additional paid-in capital (the “APIC Pool”) representing excess tax benefits - 81 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) available to absorb tax deficiencies, if any, recognized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) both determined in connection with and as of the dates of the exercises of share-based awards. Such “short-cut” method provides a simplified approach to calculating the APIC Pool based on the cumulative annual net increases or decreases in excess tax benefits rather than an award-by-award analysis since the effective date of SFAS 123 in 1995. This accounting policy election had no effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations in any of the years presented since the exercises of share-based awards in those years resulted in excess tax benefits which could not be currently recognized. Treasury stock Common stock held in treasury is stated at cost. The cost of issuances of shares from treasury stock is determined at average cost. Costs of business acquisitions Under SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations”, (“SFAS 141”) the Company defers any costs incurred relating to the pursuit of business acquisitions while the potential acquisition process is ongoing. If the acquisition is successful, such costs are then included as a component of the purchase price of the acquired entity. Whenever the Company decides it will no longer pursue a potential acquisition, any related deferred costs are expensed at that time. During December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS 141(R)”), which requires that, subsequent to the adoption date of the standard, all such costs are to be expensed when incurred. SFAS 141(R) applies prospectively to the Company’s business combinations occurring after December 28, 2008. Foreign currency translation At December 28, 2008, the Company had foreign operations in Canada as well as in 23 foreign countries and U. S. territories. The functional currency of each foreign subsidiary is the respective local currency. Financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are prepared in their functional currency then translated into United States dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the balance sheet date and revenues, costs, and expenses are translated at a monthly average exchange rate. Net gains or losses resulting from the translation adjustment are charged or credited directly to the “Foreign currency translation adjustment” component of “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity. Income taxes Effective January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 clarifies how uncertainties in income taxes should be reflected in financial statements in accordance with SFAS 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement recognition and measurement of potential tax benefits associated with tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. FIN 48 prescribes a two-step process of evaluating a tax position, whereby an entity first determines if it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is then measured for purposes of financial statement recognition as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon being effectively settled. Wendy’s/Arby’s files a consolidated Federal income tax return, which includes its principal corporate subsidiaries. As a result of the Wendy’s Merger, Wendy’s/Arby’s had an ownership change, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) as it became part of the Wendy’s consolidated group as it’s new parent. As a result, Wendy’s/Arby’s had a short taxable year in 2008 ending on the date of the Wendy’s Merger (see Note 14). The Company has provided for Federal income taxes on the income of Deerfield through the date of the Deerfield Sale, and the income of the Opportunities Fund and the DM Fund through their respective effective redemption dates, net of minority interests since, as limited liability companies (“LLC”), their income is includable in the Federal income tax returns of its various members in proportion to their interests in the LLC. Deferred income taxes were provided to recognize the tax effect of temporary differences between the bases of assets and liabilities for tax and financial statement purposes through the respective date of sale or redemption. Interest accrued for FIN 48 income tax liabilities is charged to “Interest expense” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. Penalties accrued for FIN 48 income tax liabilities are charged to “General and administrative” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. - 82 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) Revenue recognition “Sales” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations includes revenues recognized upon delivery of food to the customer, and revenues for shipments of bakery items and kid’s meal promotional items to our franchisees and others. “Sales” excludes sales taxes collected from the Company’s customers. “Franchise revenues”, as reported in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations, include royalties, franchise fees, and rental income. Royalties from franchised restaurants are based on a percentage of net sales of the franchised restaurant and are recognized as earned. Initial franchise fees are recorded as deferred income when received and are recognized as revenue when a franchised restaurant is opened since all material services and conditions related to the franchise fee have been substantially performed by the Company upon the restaurant opening. Renewal franchise fees are recognized as revenue when the license agreements are signed and the fee is paid since there are no material services and conditions related to the renewal franchise fee. Franchise commitment fee deposits are forfeited and recognized as revenue upon the termination of the related commitments to open new franchised restaurants. Rental income from locations owned by the Company and leased to franchisees is recognized on a straight-line basis over the respective operating lease terms. Asset management and related fees, which are no longer being received as a result of the Deerfield Sale, consisted of the following types of revenues generated by the Company in its capacity as the investment manager for various investment funds and private investment accounts (collectively with the investments of DFR, the “Funds”) and as the collateral manager for various CDOs: (1) management fees, (2) incentive fees and (3) other related fees. Management fees were recognized as revenue when the management services had been performed for the period and sufficient cash flows had been generated by the CDOs to pay the fees under the terms of the related management agreements. In connection with these agreements, the Company had subordinated receipt of certain of its management fees which were not recognized until they were no longer subordinated. In addition, the Company recognized non-cash management fee revenue related to its restricted stock and stock options in DFR based on their then current fair values which were amortized from deferred income to revenues over the vesting period. Incentive fees were based upon the performance of the Funds and CDOs and were recognized as revenues when the amounts became fixed and determinable upon the close of a performance period for the Funds and all contingencies were resolved. Contingencies may have included the achievement of minimum CDO or Fund performance requirements specified under certain agreements with some investors to provide minimum rate of return or principal loss protection. Other related fees primarily included structuring and warehousing fees earned by the Company for services provided to CDOs and were recognized as revenues upon the rendering of such services and the closing of the respective CDO. Vendor incentives The Company receives incentives from its vendors. These incentives are recognized as earned and, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 02-16 “Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor,” are generally classified as a reduction of “Cost of Sales” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Advertising costs The Company incurs various advertising costs, including contributions to certain advertising cooperatives based upon a percentage of net sales by Company-owned restaurants. The Company accounts for contributions made by the Company-owned restaurants to advertising cooperatives as an expense the first time the related advertising takes place. All advertising costs are expensed as incurred with the exception of media development costs that are expensed beginning in the month that the advertisement is first communicated. These amounts are included in the “Cost of sales” expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 29 for further information regarding Advertising costs. Self- insurance We are self-insured for most domestic workers’ compensation, health care claims, general liability and automotive liability losses. We provide for our estimated cost to settle both known claims and claims incurred but not yet reported. Liabilities associated with these claims are estimated, in part, by considering the frequency and severity of historical claims, both specific to us as well as industry-wide loss experience, and other actuarial assumptions. We determine casualty insurance obligations with the assistance of actuarial firms. Since there are many estimates and assumptions involved in recording insurance liabilities, and in the case of workers’ compensation, a significant period of time before ultimate resolution of claims, differences between actual future events and prior estimates and assumptions could result in adjustments to these liabilities. - 83 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) Leases We operate restaurants that are located on sites owned by us and sites leased by us from third parties. At inception, each lease is evaluated to determine whether the lease will be accounted for as an operating or capital lease in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13, Accounting for Leases ("SFAS 13") and other related authoritative guidance under GAAP. When determining the lease term we include option periods for which failure to renew the lease imposes an economic detriment. The primary penalty to which we are subject is the economic detriment associated with the existence of leasehold improvements which might be impaired if we choose not to exercise the available renewal options. For operating leases, minimum lease payments, including minimum scheduled rent increases, are recognized as rent expense on a straight line basis (“Straight-Line Rent”) over the applicable lease terms. Lease terms are generally for 20 years and, in most cases, provide for rent escalations and renewal options. The term used for Straight-Line Rent expense is calculated from the date we obtain possession of the leased premises through the expected lease termination date at lease inception. We expense rent from possession date to the restaurant opening date, in accordance with FASB Staff Position No. 13-1, “Accounting for Rental Costs Incurred during a Construction Period” (“FSP 13-1”). There is a period under certain lease agreements referred to as a rent holiday (“Rent Holiday”) that generally begins on the possession date and ends on the rent commencement date. During the Rent Holiday period, no cash rent payments are typically due under the terms of the lease, however, expense is recorded for that period on a straight line basis consistent with the Straight-Line Rent policy. For leases that contain rent escalations, we record the rent payable during the lease term, as determined above, on the straight-line basis over the term of the lease (including the rent holiday period beginning upon our possession of the premises), and record the excess of the Straight-Line Rent over the minimum rents paid and the as a deferred lease liability included in “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain leases contain provisions, referred to as contingent rent (“Contingent Rent”), that require additional rental payments based upon restaurant sales volume. Contingent rent is expensed each period as the liability is incurred. Favorable and unfavorable lease amounts are recorded as components of “Other intangible assets” and “Other liabilities”, respectively, when we purchase restaurants (see Note 3) and are amortized to “Cost of sales” – both on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the leases. Upon early termination of a lease, the favorable or unfavorable lease balance associated with the lease is recognized as a loss or gain, respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Management, with the assistance of a valuation firm, makes certain estimates and assumptions regarding each new lease agreement, lease renewal, and lease amendment, including, but not limited to property values, property lives, discount rates, and probable term, all of which can impact (i) the classification and accounting for a lease as capital or operating, (ii) the rent holiday and/or escalations in payment that are taken into consideration when calculating straight-line rent and (iii) the term over which leasehold improvements for each restaurant are amortized. These estimates and assumptions may produce materially different amounts of depreciation and amortization, interest and rent expense that would be reported if different assumed lease terms were used. Accounting for planned major maintenance activities Effective January 1, 2007 the Company accounts for scheduled major aircraft maintenance overhauls in accordance with the direct expensing method in accordance with the provisions of FASB Staff Position No. AUG AIR-1, “Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities” (“FSP AIR-1”). Under these provisions the actual cost of such overhauls is recognized as expense in the period it is incurred. Previously, the Company accounted for scheduled major maintenance activities in accordance with the accrue-in-advance method under which the estimated cost of such overhauls was recognized as expense in the periods through the scheduled date of the respective overhaul with any difference between estimated and actual costs recorded in results of operations at the time of the actual overhaul. Materiality of unrecorded adjustments The Company does not record all immaterial adjustments in its consolidated financial statements. The Company performs a materiality analysis based on all relevant quantitative and qualitative factors. Effective December 31, 2006 the Company quantifies the materiality of unrecorded adjustments in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin 108, “Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Measurements in Current Year Financial Statements” (“SAB 108”) issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The impact on the current year financial statements of recording all potential adjustments, including both the carryover and reversing effects of amounts not recorded in prior years, are considered. Unrecorded adjustments are quantified using a balance sheet and an income statement approach which considers both (1) the amount of the misstatement originating in the current year income statement (generally referred to as the “Rollover” approach) and (2) the cumulative amount of - 84 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) the misstatements at the end of the current year (generally referred to as the “Iron Curtain” approach). Prior to December 31, 2006, the Company used only the Rollover approach to quantify the materiality of unrecorded adjustments. See Note 15 for further disclosure related to the Company’s adoption of SAB 108 and related adjustment to retained earnings as of January 2, 2006. Recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted In December 2007, FASB issued SFAS 141(R) and SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements – an amendment of ARB No. 51” (“SFAS 160”). These statements change the way companies account for business combinations and noncontrolling interests by, among other things, requiring (1) more assets and liabilities to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date, including a valuation of the entire company being acquired where less than 100% of the company is acquired, (2) an acquirer in preacquisition periods to expense all acquisition-related costs, (3) changes in acquisition related deferred tax balances after the completion of the purchase price allocation be recognized in the statement of operations as opposed to through goodwill and (4) noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries initially to be measured at fair value and classified as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. These statements are to be applied prospectively beginning with our 2009 fiscal year. However, upon adoption, SFAS 160 requires entities to apply the presentation and disclosure requirements retrospectively for all periods presented. Both standards prohibit early adoption. In addition, in April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets” (“FSP FAS 142-3”). In determining the useful life of acquired intangible assets, FSP FAS 142-3 removes the requirement to consider whether an intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and conditions and, instead, requires an entity to consider its own historical experience in renewing similar arrangements. FSP FAS 142-3 also requires expanded disclosure related to the determination of intangible asset useful lives. This staff position is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning in our 2009 fiscal year and may impact any intangible assets we acquire. The application of SFAS 160 will require reclassification of our minority interests from a liability to a component of stockholders’ equity in our consolidated financial statements beginning in our 2009 fiscal year. The effect of this reclassification will not be material to our consolidated balance sheet. Further, all of the statements referred to above could have a significant impact on the accounting for any future acquisitions starting with our 2009 fiscal year. The impact will depend upon the nature and terms of such future acquisitions, if any. These statements will not have an effect on our accounting for the Wendy’s Merger except for any potential adjustments to deferred taxes included in the allocation of the purchase price after such allocation has been finalized. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 161"). SFAS 161 requires companies with derivative instruments to disclose information that should enable financial-statement users to understand how and why a company uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (“SFAS 133”) and how these items affect a company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. SFAS 161 affects only these disclosures and does not change the accounting for derivatives. SFAS 161 is to be applied prospectively beginning with the first quarter of our 2009 fiscal year. However, we do not expect SFAS 161 to have a material effect on disclosures in our consolidated financial statements. (2) Significant Risks and Uncertainties Nature of operations The Company’s restaurant operations comprise two business segments: Arby’s restaurants and Wendy’s restaurants subsequent to the Wendy’s Merger on September 29, 2008. Prior to the Deerfield Sale on December 21, 2007, our business operations also included an asset management segment that offered a diverse range of fixed income and credit-related strategies to institutional investors, including DFR. The Wendy’s restaurants segment is operated through franchised and Company-owned Wendy’s quick service restaurants specializing in hamburger sandwiches. The franchised restaurants are principally located throughout the United States and, to a lesser extent, in 21 foreign countries and U. S. territories with the largest number in Canada. Company-owned restaurants are located in 30 states, with the largest number in Florida, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas and Massachusetts. Wendy’s restaurants offer an extensive menu featuring hamburgers, filet of chicken breast sandwiches, chicken nuggets, chili, side dishes, freshly prepared salads, soft drinks, milk, Frosty® desserts, floats and kids meals. In addition, the restaurants sell a variety of promotional products on a limited basis. The New Bakery Co. of Ohio, Inc. (“Bakery”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wendy’s, is a producer of buns for Wendy’s restaurants, and to a lesser extent for outside parties. The Arby’s restaurants segment is operated through franchised and Company-owned Arby’s® quick service restaurants specializing in slow-roasted roast beef sandwiches. The franchised restaurants are principally located throughout the United States, and to a much lesser extent, in four other countries; principally in Canada. Company-owned restaurants are located in 28 states, with the - 85 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) largest number in Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Florida, Georgia and Pennsylvania. Arby’s restaurants offer an extensive menu of chicken, turkey and ham sandwiches, side dishes, snacks, soft drinks and milk, including its Market Fresh® sandwiches, salads, wraps and toasted subs. Use of estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates The Company’s significant estimates which are susceptible to change in the near term relate to (1) estimates of impairment for the carrying values of goodwill and long-lived assets of the restaurant businesses (see Note 18), (2) provisions of allowance for doubtful accounts related to notes and accounts receivable, including the DFR Notes receivable (see Note 4), (3) calculations of self-insurance liabilities, (4) provisions for the resolution of income tax uncertainties subject to future examinations of the Company’s Federal, international and state income tax returns by taxing authorities, including remaining provisions included in “Current liabilities relating to discontinued operations,” (see Notes 14 and 23), (5) the valuation of investments and derivatives which are not publicly traded (see Note 13), (6) provisions for the resolution of legal and environmental matters (see Note 28), and (7) provisions for Other Than Temporary Losses on Investments (see Note 20). Due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is reasonably possible that the actual resolution of any of these items could vary significantly from the estimate and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that the estimates may not materially change in the near term. Certain risk concentrations We believe that our vulnerability to risk concentrations in our cash equivalents is mitigated by (1) our policies restricting the eligibility, credit quality and concentration limits for our placements in cash equivalents and (2) insurance from the Securities Investor Protection Corporation of up to $500,000 per account as well as supplemental private insurance coverage maintained by substantially all of our brokerage firms, to the extent our cash equivalents are held in brokerage accounts. In order to partially mitigate the exposure of our investments in our portfolio to market risk, we may employ a hedging program which utilizes a put option on a market index. As a result of the DFR Notes received in 2007 in connection with the Deerfield Sale (see Note 3), the Company has potential vulnerability to risk concentrations related to interest from, and the collection of, the DFR Notes. All quarterly cash interest payments due through December 31, 2008 on the DFR Notes have been received on a timely basis. Based on the likelihood of the collectability of the full principal amount of the DFR Notes, currently public available information including public filings through the third quarter of 2008 and other factors (see Note 4), we have recorded an allowance for collectability of $21,227 on these notes. We had no customers which accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenues in 2008, 2007 or 2006. However, through the date of the Deerfield Sale, we derived revenues from DFR, which accounted for 22% of asset management and related fees in each of the 2007 and 2006 years, as well as revenues from another fund, which accounted for 10% and 16% of asset management and related fees in 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, through the date of the Deerfield Sale, we had an institutional investor whose participation in various funds managed by the Company generated approximately 9% and 10% of asset management and related fees in 2007 and 2006, respectively. None of the above Deerfield revenue items in any of the periods presented represented more than 10% of consolidated revenues. As of December 28, 2008, Arby’s restaurants segment has one main in-line distributor of food, packaging and beverage products, excluding produce, breads and PepsiCo beverage products, that services approximately 54% of Arby’s Company-owned and franchised restaurants and three additional in-line distributors that, in the aggregate, service approximately 33% of Arby’s Company-owned and franchised restaurants. As of December 28, 2008, the Wendy’s restaurants segment has one main in-line distributor of food, packaging and beverage products, excluding produce and breads, that services approximately 62% of its Company-owned and franchised restaurants and two additional in-line distributors that, in the aggregate, service approximately 25% of its Company-owned and franchised restaurants. We believe that our vulnerability to risk concentrations in our restaurant segments related to significant vendors and sources of its raw materials is mitigated as we believe that there are other vendors who would be able to service our requirements. However, if a disruption of service from any of our main in-line distributors was to occur, we could experience short-term increases in our costs while distribution channels were adjusted. Because our restaurant operations are generally located throughout the United States, and to a much lesser extent, Canada and other foreign countries and U. S. territories, we believe the risk of geographic concentration is not significant. Our restaurant segments could also be adversely affected by changing consumer preferences resulting from concerns over nutritional or safety aspects of beef, - 86 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) poultry, french fries or other foods or the effects of food-borne illnesses. Our exposure to foreign exchange risk is primarily related to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar for Canadian operations in the Wendy’s restaurant segment. However, our exposure to Canadian dollar foreign currency risk is mitigated by the fact that less than 10% of our restaurants are in Canada. (3) Business Acquisitions and Dispositions Merger with Wendy’s International, Inc. On September 29, 2008, we completed the Wendy’s Merger in an all-stock transaction in which Wendy’s shareholders received a fixed ratio of 4.25 shares of Wendy’s/Arby’s Class A Common Stock for each share of Wendy’s common stock owned. We expect that the merger will better position the Company to deliver long-term value to our stockholders through an expanded platform for growth for both brands with more combined resources, enhanced operational efficiencies, improved product offerings, and shared services. At September 28, 2008, there were 6,625 Wendy’s restaurants in operation in the United States and in 21 other countries and U. S. territories. Of these restaurants, 1,404 were operated by Wendy’s and 5,221 by Wendy’s franchisees. The merger is being accounted for using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 141, Business Combinations. In accordance with this standard, we have concluded that Wendy’s/Arby’s is the acquirer for financial accounting purposes. The total merger consideration has been allocated to Wendy’s net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values with the excess recognized as goodwill. Wendy’s operating results have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on the merger date. In accordance with the purchase method of accounting, management, with the assistance of a valuation firm, has preliminarily allocated the total merger consideration to Wendy’s net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of September 28, 2008 with the excess, $845,631, recognized as goodwill of the Wendy’s restaurants segment, of which $42,282 is deductible for income tax purposes. The acquired franchise agreements have a weighted average amortization period of approximately 21 years and the acquired trademark has an indefinite life so there is no related amortization. The acquired favorable and unfavorable leases have a weighted average amortization period of approximately 19 and 16 years, respectively. The fair value of these assets and liabilities included in the table below is preliminary, and is subject to change. A change in the merger consideration allocated to depreciable or amortizable assets may result in increased future depreciation and/or amortization expense. - 87 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) The preliminary computation of the total estimated merger consideration, the allocation of the consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the excess of the merger consideration over the book values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the resulting adjustment to goodwill are as follows: Value of shares of Wendy’s/Arby’s common stock issued in exchange for Wendy’s common shares $ 2,476,197 Value of Wendy’s stock options that have been converted into Wendy’s/Arby’s options 18,495 Estimated Wendy’s Merger costs 20,703 Total estimated merger consideration 2,515,395 Net book value of Wendy’s assets acquired and liabilities assumed 796,588 Less: Wendy’s historical goodwill acquired (83,794 ) Net book value of Wendy’s assets acquired and liabilities assumed 712,794 Excess of merger consideration over book value of Wendy’s assets acquired and liabilities assumed 1,802,601 Change in fair values of assets and liabilities allocated to: (Increase)/decrease in: Current assets Accounts and notes receivable (694 ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets 985 Investments (64,169 ) Properties (44,918 ) Other intangible assets Trademark (900,109 ) Franchise agreements (353,000 ) Favorable leases (117,268 ) Computer software 9,566 Deferred costs and other assets (377 ) Increase/(decrease) in: Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 5,541 Long-term debt, including current portion of $228 (56,337 ) Other liabilities (46,574 ) Unfavorable leases 64,053 Deferred income tax liability 546,331 Total adjustments (956,970 ) Total goodwill $ 845,631 In the Wendy’s Merger, 376,776 shares of Wendy’s/Arby’s common stock were issued to Wendy’s shareholders. The equity consideration is based on the 4.25 conversion factor of the Wendy’s outstanding shares at a value of $6.57 per share which represents the average closing market price of Class A Common Stock two days before and after the merger announcement date of April 24, 2008. Wendy’s shareholders held approximately 80%, in the aggregate, of the outstanding Wendy’s/Arby’s common stock immediately following the merger. In addition, immediately prior to the Wendy’s Merger, our Class B Common Stock was converted into Class A Common Stock on a one for one basis (the "Conversion”). Outstanding Wendy’s stock options were converted upon completion of the merger into stock options with respect to Wendy’s/Arby’s common stock, based on the 4.25:1 exchange ratio. The value of Wendy’s stock options that have been converted into Wendy’s/Arby’s stock options of $18,495 was calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model as of April 24, 2008. Pro Forma Operating Data (Unaudited) The following unaudited supplemental pro forma consolidated summary operating data (the “As Adjusted”) for 2008 and 2007 has been prepared by adjusting the historical data as set forth in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 to give effect to the Wendy’s Merger and the Conversion as if they had been consummated as of the beginning of each fiscal year: - 88 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) 2008 2007 As Reported As Adjusted As Reported As Adjusted Revenues: Sales $ 1,662,291 $ 3,279,504 $ 1,113,436 $ 3,273,461 Franchise revenues 160,470 383,551 86,981 374,950 Asset management and related fees - - 63,300 - Total revenues 1,822,761 3,663,055 1,263,717 3,648,411 Operating (loss) profit (413,650 ) (366,982 ) 19,900 150,437 Net (loss) income (479,741 ) (475,985 ) 16,081 80,856 Basic and diluted (loss) income per share: Class A Common Stock: (3.05 ) (1.01 ) .16 .17 Class B Common Stock: (1.24 ) - .18 - This unaudited pro forma information is provided for informational purposes only and does not purport to be indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred if the merger had been completed on the dates set forth above, nor is it necessarily indicative of the future operating results of the combined company. The As Reported and As Adjusted amounts for Wendy’s include (1) the effect of $84,231 of Special Committee costs incurred before the date of the Wendy’s Merger in 2008 and $24,670 in 2007, (2) $49,757 of facilities relocation costs in 2007, and (3) $6,750 of impairment of other long-lived assets in 2007. The As Adjusted income (loss) per share data for 2008 and 2007 assume the conversion of all Class B Common Stock to Class A Common Stock occurred prior to 2007 and the As Adjusted data for 2007 excludes Deerfield. Other Restaurant Acquisitions 2008 The Company completed the acquisitions of the operating assets, net of liabilities assumed, of 45 Arby’s franchised restaurants, including 41 restaurants in the California market, in two separate transactions during fiscal 2008. The total consideration, before post-closing adjustments, for the acquisitions was $15,891 consisting of (1) $8,934 of cash (before consideration of $45 of cash acquired), (2) the assumption of $6,239 of debt and (3) $718 of related expenses. The aggregate purchase price of $16,378 also included $693 of losses from the settlement of unfavorable franchise rights and a $1,180 gain on the termination of subleases both included in “Other operating expense, net” in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. Further, we paid an additional $15 during 2008 for a finalized post-closing purchase price adjustment related to other restaurant acquisitions in 2007 and reduced the amount of goodwill recognized related to the acquisition in 2005 of RTM Restaurant Group (the “RTM Acquisition”) by $385 primarily due to a change in the allocation of certain assets and the tax basis of the assets acquired. 2007 The Company completed the acquisitions of the operating assets, net of liabilities assumed, of 12 Arby’s franchised restaurants in seven separate transactions during the year ended December 30, 2007. The total estimated consideration for the acquisitions was $4,142 consisting of (1) $3,000 of cash (before consideration of $12 of cash acquired), (2) the assumption of $700 of debt and (3) $442 of related estimated expenses. The total consideration for the acquisitions represents $316 for the aggregate settlement loss from unfavorable franchise rights on the termination of a sublease, and $3,826 for the aggregate purchase prices. The Company paid an additional $10 in 2007 related to the other restaurant acquisitions in 2006 principally related to finalizing a post-closing purchase price adjustment. Additionally, the Company recorded purchase adjustments related to its acquisition of RTM, including a payment of $1,600 related to a post-closing purchase price adjustment and a reduction of goodwill recognized of $2,064 due to an increase in deferred income taxes from a change in the estimate of tax basis of the net assets acquired. 2006 The Company completed the acquisitions of the operating assets, net of liabilities assumed, of 13 Arby’s franchised restaurants in five separate transactions during the year ended December 31, 2006. The total consideration for the acquisitions was $5,407 consisting of (1) $3,471 of cash (including $10 paid in 2007 and before consideration of $11 of cash acquired), (2) the assumption of $1,808 of debt and (3) $128 of related expenses. The total consideration for the acquisitions represents the aggregate $887 for the settlement loss from unfavorable franchise rights and $4,520 for the aggregate purchase prices. Additional adjustments included a $5,426 increase to goodwill related to its acquisition of RTM, primarily as a result of adjustments to the estimated acquisition costs, and revisions to preliminary estimated fair values of both assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and $195 in payments to finalize post-closing purchase price adjustments related to other restaurant acquisitions in 2005. - 89 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) Due to the relative insignificance of these other restaurant acquisitions, disclosures of pro forma operating data and purchase price allocations have not been presented. Sale of Deerfield On December 21, 2007, the Company sold its 63.6% capital interest in Deerfield, the Company’s former asset management business (the “Deerfield Sale”), to DFR. The completion of the Deerfield Sale was the primary aspect in Triarc’s corporate restructuring (Note 27). The Deerfield Sale resulted in non-cash proceeds to the Company aggregating approximately $134,608 consisting of (1) 9,629 preferred shares (the “Preferred Stock”) of a subsidiary of DFR with a then estimated fair value of $88,398 at the time of the Deerfield sale and (2) $47,986 principal amount of series A Senior Secured Notes of DFR due in December 2012 with an estimated fair value of $46,210 (see Note 4) at the date of the Deerfield Sale. The Deerfield Sale resulted in an approximate pretax gain of $40,193, net of approximately $2,320 of related fees and expenses and net of the then remaining $6,945 unrecognized gain on the sale which could not be recognized due to the Company’s then continuing interest in DFR, as further described below, and is included in “Gain on sale of consolidated businesses” in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. The gain at the date of sale excluded approximately $7,651 that the Company could not recognize because of its then approximate 16% continuing interest in DFR through its ownership in the Preferred Shares, on an as-if converted basis, and common stock of DFR it already owned. As a result of a subsequent distribution of 1,000 DFR shares previously owned by the Company in 2007 (see Note 8 and Note 27), our ownership decreased to approximately 15% and the Company recognized approximately $706 of the originally deferred gain. The fees and expenses include approximately $825 representing a portion of the additional fees which are attributable to the Company’s utilization of Management Company personnel in connection with the provision of services under the Services Agreement as further described in the Transactions with Related Parties footnote (see Note 27). The Preferred Stock had a mandatory redemption feature in December 2014 and had cumulative dividend rights equal to the greater of 5% of the $10.00 liquidation preference or the per share common stock dividend declared by DFR. The DFR Preferred Shares were accounted for as an available-for-sale debt security due to their mandatory redemption requirement and were included, net of the $6,945 unrecognized gain, in “Investments” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 30, 2007 (see Note 8). There is no minority interest expense as a result of the Deerfield sale as a result of the terms of equity arrangement of the Deerfield Equity Interest. The pro forma operating results for 2007 from the date of the Deerfield Sale through the end of 2007 are not material and have not been presented. In December 2007, pursuant to agreements with certain former executives (see Note 28), the Company distributed its original investment in the 1,000 shares of common stock of DFR to the former executives. In connection with this distribution, the Company realized a $2,872 loss on its investment in DFR common shares which is included in “Other income (expense), net” (See Note 22). On March 11, 2008, DFR stockholders approved the one-for-one conversion of all its outstanding convertible preferred stock into DFR common stock which converted the 9,629 preferred shares we held into a like number of shares of common stock. On March 11, 2008, our Board of Directors approved the distribution of our 9,835 shares of DFR common stock, which also included the 206 common shares of DFR distributed to us in connection with the Deerfield Sale which were our portion of the DFR restricted and incentive fee shares (see Note 8), to our stockholders. The distribution in the form of a dividend, which was valued at $14,464, was paid on April 4, 2008 to holders of record of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock on March 29, 2008. In March 2008, in response to unanticipated credit and liquidity events in the first quarter of 2008, DFR announced that it was repositioning its investment portfolio to focus on agency-only residential mortgage-backed securities and away from its principal investing segment to its asset management segment with its fee-based revenue streams. In addition, it stated that during the first quarter of 2008, its portfolio was adversely impacted by deterioration of the global credit markets and, as a result, it sold $2,800,000 of its agency and $1,300,000 of its AAA-rated non-agency mortgage-backed securities and reduced the net notional amount of interest rate swaps used to hedge a portion of its mortgage-backed securities by $4,200,000, all at a net after-tax loss of $294,300 to DFR. Based on the events described above and their negative effect on the market price of DFR common stock, we concluded that the fair value and, therefore, the carrying value of our investment in the 9,629 common shares owned by us, as well as the 206 common shares which were distributed to us in connection with the Deerfield Sale, was impaired. As a result, as of March 11, 2008 we recorded an other than temporary loss which is included in “Other than temporary losses on investments” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 28, 2008 of $67,594 (without tax benefit as described below) which included - 90 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) $11,074 of pre-tax unrealized holding losses previously recorded as of December 30, 2007 and which were included in “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)”, a component of stockholder’s equity in the accompanying 2007 Consolidated Balance Sheet. These common shares were considered available-for-sale securities due to the limited period they were to be held as of March 11, 2008 (the “Determination Date”) before the dividend distribution of the shares to our stockholders. We also recorded an additional impairment charge, which is also included in “Other than temporary loses on investments” from March 11, 2008 through the March 29, 2008 record date of the dividend of $492. As a result of the distribution, the income tax loss that resulted from the decline in value of our investment of $68,086 is not deductible for income tax purposes and no income tax benefit was recorded related to this loss. Additionally, from December 31, 2007 through the Determination Date, we recorded approximately $754 of equity in net losses of DFR which are included in “Other income (expense), net” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 28, 2008 related to our investment in the 206 common shares of DFR discussed above which were accounted for under the equity method through the Determination Date. (4) DFR Notes On December 21, 2007, as described in Note 3, the Company received, as a part of the proceeds in the Deerfield sale, $47,986 principal amount of series A senior secured notes of a subsidiary of DFR due in December 2012 (the “DFR Notes”) with an estimated fair value of $46,210 at the date of the Deerfield Sale. The fair value of the DFR Notes was based on the present value of the probability weighted average of expected cash flows from the DFR Notes. The Company believed that this value approximated the fair value of the DFR Notes as of December 27, 2007 due to the close proximity to the Deerfield Sale date. The DFR Notes bear interest at the three-month London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) (1.47% at December 28, 2008) plus a factor, initially 5% through December 31, 2009, increasing 0.5% each quarter from January 1, 2010 through June 30, 2011 and 0.25% each quarter from July 1, 2011 through their maturity. The DFR Notes are secured by certain equity interests of DFR and certain of its subsidiaries. The $1,776 original imputed discount on the DFR Notes is being accreted to “Other income (expense), net” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations using the interest rate method. We have received timely cash payment of all four quarterly interest payments due on the DFR Notes to date. Additionally, in October 2008 we received a $1,070 dividend payment on the convertible preferred stock which we previously held. Based on the Deerfield Sale agreement, payment of a dividend by DFR on this preferred stock was dependent on DFR’s board of directors declaring and paying a dividend on DFR’s common stock. The first dividend to be declared on their common stock following the date of the Deerfield Sale was declared by DFR and recognized by us in our 2008 third quarter and paid in October 2008. Certain expenses totaling $6,201 related to the Deerfield Sale, which were a liability of the Company and for which we had an equal offsetting receivable from DFR as of December 30, 2007, were paid by DFR during the first half of 2008. Accordingly, we did not record valuation reserves on these notes prior to the fourth quarter of 2008. The dislocation in the sub-prime mortgage sector and continuing weakness in the broader credit markets has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, DFR’s cash flows. Due to the significant continuing weakness in the credit markets and at DFR and based upon current publicly available information, and our ongoing assessment of the likelihood of full repayment of the principal amount of the DFR Notes, Company management determined that the likelihood of collectability of the full principal amount of the DFR Notes had significantly declined and the Company recorded an allowance for doubtful accounts on the DFR Notes of $21,227 as of December 28, 2008. This charge is included in “Other than temporary losses on investments” in our Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 20). The DFR Notes, net of unamortized discount and the valuation allowance at December 28, 2008, of $25,344 and $46,219 at December 28, 2008 and December 27, 2007, respectively, are included in “Non-current notes receivable” in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets (Note 7). (5) Income (Loss) Per Share Basic income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. In connection with the Wendy’s Merger, Wendy’s/Arby’s stockholders approved a charter amendment to convert each of the then existing Triarc Class B Common Stock into one share of Wendy’s/Arby’s Class A Common Stock (the “Conversion”). Basic income (loss) per share has been computed by dividing the allocated income or loss for the Company’s Class A Common Stock and the Company’s Class B Common Stock by the weighted average number of shares of each class. Both factors, as appropriate, are presented in the tables below. Net loss for 2006 was allocated equally among each share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, resulting in the same loss per share for each class. Net income for 2007 was allocated between the Class - 91 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock based on the actual dividend payment ratio. Net loss for 2008 was allocated equally among each share of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock up until the date of the Conversion; subsequent to the Conversion, net loss was only allocated to Class A Common Stock since Class B Common Stock no longer existed. Diluted loss per share for 2008 and 2006 was the same as basic loss per share for each share since the Company reported a loss from continuing operations and, therefore, the effect of all potentially dilutive securities on the loss from continuing operations per share would have been antidilutive. Diluted income per share for 2007 has been computed by dividing the allocated income for the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock by the weighted average number of shares of each class plus the potential common share effect on each class of dilutive stock options and of Class B restricted shares, computed using the treasury stock method, as presented in the table that follows. The shares used to calculate diluted income per share exclude any effect of the Company’s 5% convertible notes due 2023 (the “Convertible Notes”) which would have been antidilutive since the after-tax interest on the Convertible Notes per share obtainable on conversion exceeded the reported basic income from continuing operations per share (see Note 10). As disclosed in Note 10, during 2006 an aggregate of $172,900 of the Convertible Notes were converted or effectively converted into 4,323 and 8,645 shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, respectively. The weighted average effect of these shares is included in the basic income or (loss) per share calculation from the dates of their issuance. The only Company securities as of December 28, 2008 that could dilute basic income per share for years subsequent to December 28, 2008 are (1) outstanding stock options which can be exercised into 26,723 shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock (see Note 16), (2) 413 restricted shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock which principally vest over three years (see Note 16) and (3) $2,100 of Convertible Notes which are convertible into 160 shares of the Company’s common stock (see Note 10). Income (loss) per share has been computed by allocating the income or loss as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Class A Common Stock: Continuing operations $ (421,599 ) $ 4,337 $ (3,404 ) Discontinued operations 1,378 286 (41 ) Net (loss) income $ (420,221 ) $ 4,623 $ (3,445 ) Class B Common Stock: Continuing operations $ (60,359 ) $ 10,749 $ (7,399 ) Discontinued operations 839 709 (88 ) Net (loss) income $ (59,520 ) $ 11,458 $ (7,487 ) The number of shares used to calculate basic and diluted (loss) income per share were as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Class A Common Stock: Basic shares – weighted average shares outstanding 137,669 28,836 27,301 Dilutive effect of stock options and restricted shares - 129 - Diluted shares 137,669 28,965 27,301 Class B Common Stock: Basic shares – weighted average shares outstanding 47,965 (a) 63,523 59,343 Dilutive effect of stock options and restricted shares - 759 - Diluted shares 47,965 64,282 59,343 _____________ (a) Represents the weighted average for the full year even though the Class B Common Stock was converted into Class A Common Stock on September 29, 2008. - 92 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) (6) Short-Term Investments Short-Term Investments The Company’s short-term investments, included in “Prepaid expenses and other current assets” in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, are carried at fair market value and at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 consist entirely of available-for-sale securities. The cost of these securities has been reduced by any Other Than Temporary Losses (see Note 20). Information regarding the Company’s short-term investments at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 is as follows: 2008 2007 Unrealized Holding Unrealized Holding Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Carrying Value Cost Gains Losses Fair Value Carrying Value Available-for-sale securities $ 162 $ - $ - $ 162 $ 162 $ 685 $ 1,923 $ - $ 2,608 $ 2,608 Proceeds from sales and investment distribution values (see Note 27) of current and non-current available-for-sale securities, and gross realized gains and gross realized losses on those transactions, which are included in “Investment income, net” in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations (see Note 19), are as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Proceeds from sales and investment distribution values $ 87,301 $ 105,170 $ 116,641 Gross realized gains $ 4,222 $ 21,691 $ 7,664 Gross realized losses (5,809 ) (682 ) (401 ) $ (1,587 ) $ 21,009 $ 7,263 The following is a summary of the components of the net change in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities included in other comprehensive income (loss): 2008 2007 2006 Unrealized holding (losses) gains arising during the year $ (4,505 ) $ (9,842 ) $ 13,012 Reclassifications of prior year unrealized holding (losses) gains into net income or loss 8,206 (15,811 ) 34 Equity in change in unrealized holding (losses) gains arising during the year (201 ) 2,170 242 3,500 (23,483 ) 13,288 Income tax benefit (provision) (1,288 ) 8,723 (5,048 ) Minority interests in (increase) decrease in unrealized holding gains of a consolidated subsidiary - (697 ) 737 $ 2,212 $ (15,457 ) $ 8,977 As of December 28, 2008, we had unrealized holding gains and (losses) on available-for-sale marketable securities before income taxes and minority interests of $410 and ($242), respectively, included in “Accumulated other comprehensive loss.” We evaluated the unrealized losses to determine whether these losses were other than temporary and concluded that they were not. Should either (1) we decide to sell any of these investments with unrealized losses or (2) any of the unrealized losses continue such that we believe they have become other than temporary, we would recognize the losses on the related investments at that time. The change in the net unrealized (loss) gain on trading securities and trading derivatives resulted in gains of $172 and $5,332 in 2007 and 2006, respectively, which are included in “Investment income, net” in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 19). - 93 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) (7) Balance Sheet detail Cash and cash equivalents Year End 2008 2007 Cash $ 53,324 $ 17,650 Cash equivalents 36,766 60,466 $ 90,090 $ 78,116 Restricted cash equivalents Year-End Current 2008 Trust for termination costs for former Wendy’s executives (Note 27) $ 20,792 Year End Non-current 2008 2007 Accounts managed by the Management Company (Notes 8 and 27) $ 26,515 $ 43,356 Trust for termination costs for former Wendy’s executives (Note 27) 6,462 - Collateral supporting letters of credit securing payments due under leases 1,055 1,939 $ 34,032 $ 45,295 Accounts and notes receivable Year End Current 2008 2007 Accounts receivable: Franchisees $ 68,895 $ 14,266 Deerfield Sale expenses reimbursable from DFR (Note 3) - 6,216 Other related parties (Note 27) 260 607 Other 25,543 6,209 94,698 27,298 Notes receivable: Franchisees 3,447 478 98,145 27,776 Allowance for doubtful accounts (887 ) (166 ) $ 97,258 $ 27,610 Year End Non-Current 2008 2007 Notes receivable: DFR $ 46,571 $ 46,219 Franchisees 9,841 564 56,412 46,783 Allowance for doubtful accounts (21,804 ) (354 ) $ 34,608 $ 46,429 - 94 - - WENDY’S/ARBY’S GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES (FORMERLY TRIARC COMPANIES, INC.) NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – CONTINUED (In Thousands Except Per Share Amounts ) The following is an analysis of the allowance for doubtful accounts which relates primarily to the DFR notes and to trade accounts and notes receivables: 2008 2007 2006 Balance at beginning of year: Current $ 166 $ 224 $ 591 Non-current 354 - - Provision for doubtful accounts: DFR notes 21,227 - - Franchisees 783 277 172 Other (113 ) 354 - Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries 274 (335 ) (117 ) Uncollectible related party notes written off - - (422 ) Balance at end of year: Current 887 166 224 Non-current 21,804 354 - Total $ 22,691 $ 520 $ 2