Item 1A. Risk Factors. We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we have included below the most significant factors that have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during 2011, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to Wendy’s/Arby’s and Wendy’s/Arby’s Restaurants The impact and results of our announcement that Wendy’s/Arby’s is exploring strategic alternatives for the Arby’s brand, including a sale of the brand, are uncertain and cannot be determined. In January 2011, Wendy’s/Arby’s announced that it is exploring strategic alternatives for the Arby’s brand, including a sale of the brand. There can be no assurance that the review of strategic alternatives will result in any agreement or transaction, or that if an agreement is executed, that a transaction will be consummated. We do not intend to disclose developments with respect to this review (whether or not material) unless and until the Board of Directors has approved a specific course of action or terminated the exploration of strategic alternatives. In connection with our exploration of strategic alternatives, we expect to incur expenses, including expenses in connection with the retention of key personnel and consultants. The process of exploring strategic alternatives may be disruptive to our business. The inability to effectively manage the process and any resulting agreement or transaction could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our success depends in part upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. We believe that over time our success has been dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. The failure by us to retain members of our senior management team could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts we have undertaken to increase the efficiency and profitability of our businesses. The retention of members of our senior management team may be more difficult following Wendy’s/Arby’s announcement that it is exploring strategic alternatives for the Arby’s brand, including the sale of the brand. Growth of our restaurant businesses is significantly dependent on new restaurant openings, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. Our restaurant businesses derive earnings from sales at company-owned restaurants, franchise royalties received from franchised restaurants and franchise fees from franchise restaurant operators for each new unit opened. Growth in our restaurant revenues and earnings is significantly dependent on new restaurant openings. Numerous factors beyond our control may affect restaurant openings. These factors include but are not limited to: · our ability to attract new franchisees; · the availability of site locations for new restaurants; · the ability of potential restaurant owners to obtain financing; · the ability of restaurant owners to hire, train and retain qualified operating personnel; · construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in highly-competitive markets; · the ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; and · adverse weather conditions. Wendy’s and Arby’s franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Wendy’s and Arby’s franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the standards set forth in agreements with them. Each brand also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments to us will be adversely affected and the brand’s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt our business and operating results. 14 Our success depends on franchisees’ participation in brand strategies. Wendy’s and Arby’s franchisees are an integral part of our business. Each brand may be unable to successfully implement brand strategies that it believes are necessary for further growth if franchisees do not participate in that implementation. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if a significant number of franchisees do not participate in brand strategies. Our financial results are affected by the operating results of franchisees. As of January 2, 2011, approximately 79% of the Wendy’s system and 69% of the Arby’s system were franchise restaurants. We receive revenue in the form of royalties, which are generally based on a percentage of sales at franchised restaurants, rent and fees from franchisees. Accordingly, a substantial portion of our financial results is to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for franchisees, their financial results may worsen and our royalty, rent and other fee revenues may decline. In addition, accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts may increase. When company-owned restaurants are sold, one of our subsidiaries is often required to remain responsibl e for lease payments for these restaurants to the extent that the purchasing franchisees default on their leases. During periods of declining sales and profitability of franchisees, such as have been recently experienced by a significant number of Arby’s franchisees and a minimal number of Wendy’s franchisees, the incidence of franchisee defaults for these lease payments increases and we are then required to make those payments and seek recourse against the franchisee or agree to repayment terms. Additionally, if franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if we decide to restructure franchise agreements in order to induce franchisees to renew these agreements, then our royalty revenues may decrease. Further, we may decide from time to time to acquire restaurants from franchisees that experience significant financial hardship, which may reduce our cash and equivalents. As of January 2, 2011, there were approximately 350 Arby’s franchised restaurants with amounts payable to Arby’s for royalties, rent and/or other fees that were at least 60 days past due. The financial condition of a number of Arby’s franchisees was one of the factors that resulted in a net decrease of 44 and 31 in the number of franchised restaurants for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. During those periods 96 and 74 franchised Arby’s restaurants were closed, respectively. The trend of declining sales at franchised Arby’s restaurants has resulted in decreases in royalties and other franchise revenues. In addition, Arby’s franchisee accounts receivable and related allowance for doubtful accounts have increased significantly, and may continue to grow as a result of the deteriorating financial condition of some of our franchisees. Franchisees’ financial difficulties and the closure of franchised restaurants have also caused reductions in the contributions to and extent of advertising programs. Continuation of these trends would affect our revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In December 2009, and as amended in February and August 2010, AFA entered into a revolving loan agreement with Arby’s. The terms of this agreement allow AFA to have revolving loans of up to $14.0 million outstanding with an expiration date of March 2012 and bearing interest at 7.5% per annum. In February 2011, the maximum principal amount was reduced to $11.0 million. As of January 2, 2011, the outstanding balance under this agreement was $4.5 million and there were no amounts past due. Due to declining sales and profitability of Arby’s franchisees, it is possible that our ability in the future to collect principal and interest payments from AFA could be adversely affected. Each brand may be unable to manage effectively the acquisition and disposition of restaurants, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Each brand acquires restaurants from franchisees and in some cases “re-franchises” these restaurants by selling them to new or existing franchisees. The success of these transactions is dependent upon the availability of sellers and buyers, the availability of financing, and the brand’s ability to negotiate transactions on terms deemed acceptable. In addition, the operations of restaurants that each brand acquires may not be integrated successfully, and the intended benefits of such transactions may not be realized. Acquisitions of franchised restaurants pose various risks to brand operations, including: · diversion of management attention to the integration of acquired restaurant operations; · increased operating expenses and the inability to achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies; · exposure to liabilities arising out of sellers’ prior operations of acquired restaurants; and · incurrence or assumption of debt to finance acquisitions or improvements and/or the assumption of long-term, non-cancelable leases. In addition, engaging in acquisitions and dispositions places increased demands on the brand’s operational and financial management resources and may require us to continue to expand these resources. If either brand is unable to manage the acquisition and disposition of restaurants effectively, its business and financial results could be adversely affected. Arby’s does not exercise ultimate control over advertising for its restaurant system, which could harm sales and the brand. Arby’s franchisees control the provision of national advertising and marketing services to the Arby’s franchise system through AFA, a company controlled by Arby’s franchisees. Subject to Arby’s right to protect its trademarks, AFA has the right to approve all significant decisions regarding national marketing and advertising strategies and the creative content of advertising for the Arby’s system. Although Arby’s has entered into a management agreement pursuant to which Arby’s, on behalf of AFA, manages the day-to-day operations of the AFA, many areas are still subject to ultimate approval by AFA’s in dependent board of directors, and the 15 management agreement may be terminated for any reason by Arby’s upon one year’s prior notice or by AFA upon six months prior notice. See “Item 1. Business—The Arby’s Restaurant System—Advertising and Marketing.” In addition, local cooperatives run by operators of Arby’s restaurants in a particular local area (including Arby’s) make their own decisions regarding local advertising expenditures, subject to the requirement to spend at least the specified minimum amounts. Arby’s lack of control over advertising could hurt sales and the Arby’s brand. Neither Wendy’s nor Arby’s exercises ultimate control over purchasing for their respective restaurant system, which could harm sales or profitability and the brand. Although Wendy’s and Arby’s ensure that all suppliers to their respective systems meet quality control standards, each brand’s franchisees control the purchasing of food, proprietary paper, equipment and other operating supplies from such suppliers through purchasing co-ops controlled by each brand’s franchisees. The co-ops negotiate national contracts for such food, equipment and supplies. Wendy’s is entitled to appoint two representatives on the board of directors of QSCC and participates in QSCC through its company-owned restaurants, but otherwise does not control the decisions and activities of QSCC except to ensure that all suppliers satisfy Wendy’s quality control standards. Arby’s is entitled to appoint one representative on the board of directors of ARC OP and participates in ARCOP through its company-owned restaurants, but otherwise does not control the decisions and activities of ARCOP except to ensure that all suppliers satisfy Arby’s quality control standards. During the 2010 second quarter, QSCC and ARCOP, in consultation with Wendy’s/Arby’s Restaurants, established SSG to manage and operate purchasing programs which combine the purchasing power of both Wendy’s and Arby’s company-owned and franchised restaurants to create buying efficiencies for certain non-perishable goods, equipment and services. If any of these co-ops does not properly estimate the product needs of its respective system, makes poor purchasing decisions, or decides to cease its operations, system sales and operating costs could be adversely affected and the financial condition of Wendy’s or Arby’s or the financial condition of each system’s franchisees could be hurt. Should a sale of Arby’s occur as discussed in “Business - The Arby’s Restaurant System” in Item 1 herein, under the change of control provisions in the agreement that established SSG, the activities of SSG would be wound up. In the wind up process, the assets, personnel and functions of SSG would be transferred to QSCC and ARCOP as such parties and Wendy’s/Arby’s Restaurants agree. In contemplation of a possible sale, the parties are in discussion regarding the dissolution of SSG and transferring SSG’s assets, personnel and functions to QSCC and ARCOP. The dissolution of SSG could be disruptive to our business and the operations of QSCC and ARCOP, result in the loss of experienced personnel and adversely affect the financial condition of Wendy’s or Arby 8217;s or the financial condition of each system’s franchisees. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of perishable food products could damage the Wendy’s and/or Arby's brand reputation and adversely affect our operating results. Each brand and its franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet brand specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which could lower our revenues, increase operating costs, damage brand reputation and otherwise harm our business and the businesses of our franchisees. Food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. Coli) involving Wendy’s or Arby’s or their respective supply chains, could create negative publicity and adversely affect sales at either or both brands. Food safety is a top priority, and we dedicate substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products. However, food safety events, including instances of food-borne illness (such as salmonella or E. Coli), have occurred in the food industry in the past, and could occur in the future. Food safety events could adversely affect the price and availability of beef, poultry or other meats. As a result, Wendy’s and/or Arby’s restaurants could experience a significant increase in food costs if there are food safety events whether or not such events involve Wendy’s or Arby’s restaurants or restaurants of competitors. In addition, food safety events, whether or not involving Wendy’s or Arby’s, could result in negative publicity for Wendy’s and/or Arby’s or for the industry or market segments in which we operate. This negative publicity, as well as any other negative publicity concerning types of food products Wendy’s or Arby’s serves, may reduce demand for Wendy’s and/or Arby’s food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as consumers shift their preferences to other products or food types. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could result in a decline in sales at company-owned restaurants or in royalties from sales at franchised restaurants. Consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of beef, poultry, French fries or other products we sell or concerns regarding the effects of disease outbreaks such as “mad cow disease” and avian influenza or “bird flu,” could affect demand for our products. Consumer concerns regarding the nutritional aspects of beef, poultry, French fries or other products we sell or concerns regarding the effects of disease outbreaks such as “mad cow disease” and avian influenza or “bird flu,” could result in less demand for our products and a decline in sales at company-owned restaurants and in the royalties that we receive from franchisees. 16 Changes in consumer tastes and preferences, and in discretionary consumer spending, could result in a decline in sales at company-owned restaurants and in the royalties that we receive from franchisees. The quick service restaurant industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. Our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending or a decline in consumer food-away-from-home spending could hurt our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition. If company-owned and franchised restaurants are unable to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and trends, company-owned and franchised restaurants may lose customers and the resulting revenues from company-owned restaurants and the royalties that we receive from franchisees may decline. The disruptions in the national and global economies and the financial markets may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition. The disruptions in the national and global economies and financial markets, and the related reductions in the availability of credit, have resulted in high unemployment rates and declines in consumer confidence and spending, and have made it more difficult for businesses to obtain financing. If such conditions persist, then they may result in significant declines in consumer food-away-from-home spending and customer traffic in our restaurants and those of our franchisees. Such conditions may also adversely impact the ability of franchisees to build or purchase restaurants, remodel existing restaurants, renew expiring franchise agreements and make timely royalty and other payments. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabiliz e the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. If we or our franchisees are unable to obtain borrowed funds on acceptable terms, or if conditions in the economy and the financial markets do not improve, our revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, we have entered into interest rate swaps and other derivative contracts as described in Note 12 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in Item 8 herein, and we may enter into additional swaps in the future. We are exposed to potential losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on these instruments, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Changes in commodity costs (including beef and chicken), supply, fuel, utilities, distribution and other operating costs could harm results of operations. Our profitability depends in part on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in commodity costs (including beef and chicken), supply, fuel, distribution and other operating costs. Any increase in these costs, especially beef or chicken prices, could harm operating results. In addition, each brand is susceptible to increases in these costs as a result of other factors beyond its control, such as weather conditions, global demand, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulations. Additionally, prices for feed ingredients used to produce beef and chicken could be adversely affected by changes in global weather patterns, which are inherently unpredictable. Increases in gasoline prices would result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, which would increa se our costs. Significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease in customer traffic at our restaurants, which could adversely affect our business. We cannot predict whether we will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting our purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our customers. Competition from other restaurant companies, or poor customer experience at Wendy’s or Arby’s restaurants, could hurt our brands. The market segments in which company-owned and franchised Wendy’s and Arby’s restaurants compete are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, convenience, and the nature and condition of the restaurant facility. If customers have a poor experience at a Wendy’s or Arby’s restaurant, whether at a company-owned or franchised restaurant, we may experience a decrease in guest traffic. Further, Wendy’s and Arby’s restaurants compete with a variety of locally-owned restaurants, as well as competitive regional and national chains and franchises. Several of these chains compete by offering menu items that are targeted at certain consumer groups or dietary trends. Additionally, many of our competitors have introduced lower cost, value meal menu options. Our revenues and those of our franchisees may be hurt by this product and price competition. Moreover, new companies, including operators outside the quick service restaurant industry, may enter our market areas and target our customer base. For example, additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases have come from deli sections and in-store cafes of a number of major grocery store chains, as well as from convenience stores and casual dining outlets. Such competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, better locations, better facilities, better management, better products, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing and marketing strategies in the quick service 17 restaurant industry better than we can. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on advertising and marketing than we do, which may give them a competitive advantage through higher levels of brand awareness among consumers. All such competition may adversely affect our revenues and profits by reducing revenues of company-owned restaurants and royalty payments from franchised restaurants. Current restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that our current restaurant locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where our restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. In addition, rising real estate prices in some areas may restrict our ability and the ability of franchisees to purchase or lease new desirable locations. If desirable locations cannot be obtained at reasonable prices, each brand’s ability to execute its growth strategies will be adversely affected. Wendy’s and Arby’s business could be hurt by increased labor costs or labor shortages. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our company-owned restaurants. Each brand devotes significant resources to recruiting and training its managers and hourly employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefits costs (including government-mandated health care benefits) or other factors would adversely impact our cost of sales and operating expenses. In addition, each brand’s success depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including restaurant managers and staff. If either brand is unable to do so, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Each brand’s leasing and ownership of significant amounts of real estate exposes it to possible liabilities and losses, including liabilities associated with environmental matters. As of January 2, 2011, Wendy’s leased or owned the land and/or the building for 1,394 Wendy’s restaurants and Arby’s leased or owned the land and/or the building for 1,144 Arby’s restaurants. Accordingly, each brand is subject to all of the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate. In particular, the value of our real property assets could decrease, and costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, supply or demand for the use of the restaurants, which may result from competition from similar restaurants in the area, and liability for environmental matters. Each brand is subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner, operator or occupant of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners, operators or occupants of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such substances. A number of our restaurant sites were formerly gas stations or are adjacent to current or former gas stations, or were used for other commercial activities that can create environmental impacts. We may also acquire or lease these types of sites in the future. We have not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of all of our properties. We may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at our leased and owned properties, and any such liabilities identified in the future could cause us to incur significant costs, including costs associated with litigation, fines or clean-up responsibilities. In addition, we cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted. We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with any environmental laws or regulations or to satisfy any such claims. See “Item 1. Business-General-Environmental Matters.” Each brand leases real property generally for initial terms of 20 years with two to four additional options to extend the term of the leases in consecutive five-year increments. Many leases provide that the landlord may increase the rent over the term of the lease and any renewals thereof. Most leases require us to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. We generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate additional renewals or renewal options, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. Complaints or litigation may hurt each brand. Wendy’s and Arby’s customers file complaints or lawsuits against us alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to a Wendy’s or Arby’s restaurant, or alleging that there was a problem with food quality or operations at a Wendy’s or Arby’s restaurant. We are also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims, claims from franchisees (which tend to increase when franchisees experience declining sales and profitability) and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters, including class action lawsuits related to these matters. Regardless of whether any claims aga inst us are valid or whether we are found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management’s attention away from operations and hurt our performance. A judgment significantly in excess of our insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely 18 affect our financial condition or results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from these claims may hurt us and our franchisees. Additionally, the restaurant industry has been subject to a number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their customers. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may harm the reputation of our restaurants, even if the allegations are not directed against our restaurants or are not valid, and even if we are not found liable or the concerns relate only to a single restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Moreover, complaints, litigation or adverse publicity experienced by one or more of Wendy’s or Arby’s franchisees could also hurt our business as a whole. Our current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims that may be filed. We currently maintain insurance we believe is adequate for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to natural disasters or acts of terrorism. In addition, we currently self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under workers compensation, general liability and property insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense under these programs, which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.< /div> Changes in legal or regulatory requirements, including franchising laws, accounting standards, payment card industry rules, overtime rules, minimum wage rates, government-mandated health care benefits, tax legislation and menu-board labeling requirements, may hurt our ability to open new restaurants or otherwise hurt our existing and future operations and results. Each Wendy’s and Arby’s restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located, as well as to Federal laws, rules and regulations and requirements of non-governmental entities such as payment card industry rules. State and local government authorities may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and the cost of conducting those operations. For example, recent efforts to require the listing of specified nutritional information on menus and menu boards could adversely affect consumer demand for our products, could make our menu boards less appealing and could increase our costs of doing business. There can be no assurance that we and/or our franchisees will not experi ence material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay the opening of such restaurants in the future. In addition, more stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to tax, zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. Federal laws, rules and regulations address many aspects of our business, such as franchising, minimum wages and taxes. We and our franchisees are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. As described more fully under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” one of our subsidiaries was a defendant in a lawsuit alleging failure to comply with Title III of the ADA at approximately 775 company-owned restaurants acquired as part of the RTM acquisition by Arby’s in July 2005. Under a court approved settlement of that lawsuit, Arby’s estimates that it will spend approximat ely $1.15 million per year of capital expenditures over a seven-year period (which commenced in 2008) to bring these restaurants into compliance with the ADA, in addition to paying certain legal fees and expenses. We cannot predict the amount of any other future expenditures that may be required in order to permit company-owned restaurants to comply with any changes in existing regulations or to comply with any future regulations that may become applicable to our businesses. Recent Federal legislation regarding changes in government-mandated health care benefits are also anticipated to increase our costs and the costs of our franchisees and may result in significant modifications to our employment and hiring practices. Because of the absence of implementing regulations, we currently cannot predict the timing or amount of those cost increases or modifications to our business practices. However, the cost increases may be material and such modifications to our business practices may be disruptive to our operations and impact our ability to attract and retain personnel. Our operations are influenced by adverse weather conditions. Weather, which is unpredictable, can impact Wendy’s and Arby’s restaurant sales. Harsh weather conditions that keep customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for our restaurants. A heavy snowstorm in the Northeast or Midwest or a hurricane in the Southeast can shut down an entire metropolitan area, resulting in a reduction in sales in that area. Our first quarter includes winter months and historically has a lower level of sales at company-owned restaurants. Because a significant portion of our restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods hurts our operating margins, and can result in restaurant operating losses. For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of either brand’s performance or how it may perform in the future. 19 Due to the concentration of Wendy’s and Arby’s restaurants in particular geographic regions, our business results could be impacted by the adverse economic conditions prevailing in those regions regardless of the state of the national economy as a whole. As of January 2, 2011, we and our franchisees operated Wendy’s or Arby’s restaurants in 50 states and 24 foreign countries. As of January 2, 2011 as detailed in “