Item 1A. Risk Factors. We wish to caution readers that in addition to the important factors described elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the following important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during 2008, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to Triarc A substantial amount of our shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock is concentrated in the hands of certain stockholders. As of February 15, 2008, Nelson Peltz, our Chairman and former Chief Executive Officer, and Peter May, our Vice Chairman and former President and Chief Operating Officer, beneficially owned shares of our outstanding Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, Series 1, that collectively constituted approximately 36.7% of our Class A Common Stock, 21.3% of our Class B Common Stock and 34.0% of our total voting power. Messrs. Peltz and May may from time to time acquire additional shares of Class A Common Stock, including by exchanging some or all of their shares of Class B Common Stock for shares of Class A Common Stock. Additionally, we may from time to time repurchase shares of Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock. Such transactions could result in Messrs. Peltz and May together owning more than a majority of our outstanding voting power. If that were to occur, Messrs. Peltz and May would be able to determine the outcome of the election of members of our board of directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring majority stockholder approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. They would also be in a position to prevent or cause a change in control of us. In addition, to the extent we issue additional shares of our Class B Common Stock for acquisitions, financings or compensation purposes, such issuances would not proportionally dilute the voting power of existing stockholders, including Messrs. Peltz and May. Our success depends substantially upon the continued retention of certain key personnel. We believe that over time our success has been dependent to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. The failure by us to retain members of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, Roland Smith, could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts we have undertaken to increase the efficiency and profitability of our businesses. Acquisitions have been a key element of our business strategy, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify appropriate acquisition targets in the future and that we will be able to successfully integrate any future acquisitions into our existing operations. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties assimilating new operations and products. In addition, acquisitions may require significant management time and capital resources. We cannot assure you that we will have access to the capital required to finance potential acquisitions on satisfactory terms, that any acquisition would result in long-term benefits to us or that management would be able to manage effectively the resulting business. Future acquisitions, if any, are likely to result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, which could contain restrictive covenants, or the issuance of additional equity securities, which could dilute our existing stockholders. Our investment of excess funds in accounts managed by third parties is subject to risks associated with the underlying investment strategy of the accounts . From time to time we place our excess cash in investment funds or accounts managed by third parties (including the Management Company). These funds or accounts are subject to inherent risks associated with the underlying investment strategy, which may include significant exposure to the equity markets, the use of leverage and a lack of diversification. In the future, we may have to take actions that we would not otherwise take so as not to be subject to tax as a “personal holding company.” If at any time during the last half of our taxable year, five or fewer individuals own or are deemed to own more than 50% of the total value of our shares and if during such taxable year we receive 60% or more of our gross income, as specially adjusted, from specified passive sources, we would be classified as a “personal holding company” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If this were the case, we would be subject to additional taxes at the rate of 15% on a portion of our income, to the extent this income is not distributed to stockholders. We do not currently expect to have any liability in 2008 for tax under the personal holding company rules. However, we cannot assure you that we will not become liable for such tax in the future. Because we do not wish to be classified as a personal holding company or to incur any personal holding company tax, we may be required in the future to take actions that we would not otherwise take. These actions may influence our strategic and business decisions, including causing us to conduct our business and acquire or dispose of investments differently than we otherwise would. - 9 - - Our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions and permits our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional series of Class B Common Stock without stockholder approval. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation are intended to discourage or delay a hostile takeover of control of us. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of “blank check” preferred stock and additional series of Class B Common Stock, which will have such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock and/or Class B Common Stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. The preferred stock and additional series of Class B Common Stock could be used to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of us that is determined by our board of directors to be undesirable. Although we have no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock or additional series of Class B Common Stock, we cannot assure you that we will not do so in the future. Risks Related to Arby’s Our restaurant business is significantly dependent on new restaurant openings, which may be affected by factors beyond our control. Our restaurant business derives earnings from sales at company-owned restaurants, franchise royalties received from franchised Arby’s restaurants and franchise fees from restaurant operators for each new unit opened. Growth in our restaurant revenues and earnings is significantly dependent on new restaurant openings. Numerous factors beyond our control may affect restaurant openings. These factors include but are not limited to: · our ability to attract new franchisees; · the availability of site locations for new restaurants; · the ability of potential restaurant owners to obtain financing; · the ability of restaurant owners to hire, train and retain qualified operating personnel; · the availability of construction materials and labor; · construction and development costs of new restaurants, particularly in highly-competitive markets; · the ability of restaurant owners to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; and · adverse weather conditions. Although as of December 30, 2007, franchisees had signed commitments to open 386 Arby’s restaurants over the next seven years and have made or are required to make non-refundable deposits of $10,000 per restaurant, we cannot assure you that franchisees will meet these commitments and that they will result in open restaurants. See “Item 1. Business--Business Operations—Franchise Network.” Arby’s franchisees could take actions that could harm our business. Arby’s franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with the standards ARG sets through its agreements with them. ARG also provides training and support to franchisees. However, franchisees are independent third parties that ARG does not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchise restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with required standards, royalty payments to us will be adversely affected, the Arby’s image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could hurt ARG’s business and operating results. ARG’s success depends on Arby’s franchisees’ participation in ARG’s strategy. Arby’s franchisees are an integral part of ARG’s business. ARG may be unable to successfully implement ARG’s brand strategies that it believes are necessary for further growth if Arby’s franchisees do not participate in that implementation. The failure of ARG’s franchisees to focus on the fundamentals of restaurant operations such as quality, service and cleanliness would have a negative impact on ARG’s success. - 10 - - ARG’s financial results are affected by the financial results of Arby’s franchisees. ARG receives revenue in the form of royalties and fees from Arby’s franchisees, which are generally based on a percentage of sales at franchised restaurants. Accordingly, a substantial portion of ARG’s financial results is to a large extent dependent upon the operational and financial success of Arby’s franchisees. If sales trends or economic conditions worsen for Arby’s franchisees, their financial results may worsen and ARG’s royalty revenues may decline. When ARG sells company-owned restaurants, ARG is often required to remain responsible for lease payments for these restaurants to the extent that the purchasing franchisees default on their leases. Additionally, if Arby’s franchisees fail to renew their franchise agreements, or if ARG decides to restructure franchise agreements in order to induce franchisees to renew these agreements, then ARG’s royalty revenues may decrease. ARG may be unable to manage effectively its strategy of acquiring and disposing of Arby’s restaurants, which could adversely affect ARG’s business and financial results. ARG’s strategy of acquiring Arby’s restaurants from franchisees and eventually “re-franchising” these restaurants by selling them to new or existing franchisees is dependent upon the availability of sellers and buyers as well as ARG’s ability to negotiate transactions on terms that ARG deems acceptable. In addition, the operations of restaurants that ARG acquires may not be integrated successfully, and the intended benefits of such transactions may not be realized. Acquisitions of Arby’s restaurants pose various risks to ARG’s operations, including: · diversion of management attention to the integration of acquired restaurant operations; · increased operating expenses and the inability to achieve expected cost savings and operating efficiencies; · exposure to liabilities arising out of sellers’ prior operations of acquired restaurants; and · incurrence or assumption of debt to finance acquisitions or improvements and/or the assumption of long-term, non-cancelable leases. In addition, engaging in acquisitions and dispositions places increased demands on ARG’s operational, financial and management resources and may require ARG to continue to expand these resources. If ARG is unable to manage the acquisition and disposition strategy effectively, its business and financial results could be adversely affected. ARG does not exercise ultimate control over advertising and purchasing for the Arby’s restaurant system, which could hurt sales and the Arby’s brand. Arby’s franchisees control the provision of national advertising and marketing services to the Arby’s franchise system through the AFA, a company controlled by Arby’s franchisees. Subject to ARG’s right to protect its trademarks, and except to the extent that ARG participates in the AFA through its company-owned restaurants, the AFA has the right to approve all significant decisions regarding the national marketing and advertising strategies and the creative content of advertising for the Arby’s system. Although ARG has entered into a management agreement pursuant to which ARG, on behalf of the AFA, manages the day-to-day operations of the AFA, many areas are still subject to ultimate approval by the AFA’s independent board of directors, and the management agreement may be terminated by either party for any reason upon one year’s prior notice. See “Item 1. Business--Business Operations—Advertising and Marketing.” In addition, local cooperatives run by operators of Arby’s restaurants in a particular local area (including ARG) make their own decisions regarding local advertising expenditures, subject to spending the required minimum amounts. ARG’s lack of control over advertising could hurt sales and the Arby’s brand. In addition, although ARG ensures that all suppliers to the Arby’s system meet quality control standards, Arby’s franchisees control the purchasing of food, proprietary paper, equipment and other operating supplies from such suppliers through ARCOP, Inc., a not-for-profit entity controlled by Arby’s franchisees. ARCOP negotiates national contracts for such food, equipment and supplies. ARG is entitled to appoint one representative on the board of directors of ARCOP and participate in ARCOP through its company-owned restaurants, but otherwise does not control the decisions and activities of ARCOP except to ensure that all suppliers satisfy Arby’s quality control standards. If ARCOP does not properly estimate the needs of the Arby’s system with respect to one or more products, makes poor purchasing decisions, or decides to cease its operations, system sales and operating costs could be adversely affected and the financial condition of ARG or the financial condition of Arby’s franchisees could be hurt. Shortages or interruptions in the supply or delivery of perishable food products could damage the Arby's brand reputation and adversely affect ARG's operating results. ARG and Arby's franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of perishable food products that meet ARG’s specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of perishable food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, disease or food-borne illnesses, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which could lower ARG's revenues, increase ARG’s operating costs, damage Arby's reputation and otherwise harm ARG's business and the businesses of Arby’s franchisees. - 11 - - Additional instances of mad cow disease or other food-borne illnesses, such as bird flu or salmonella, could adversely affect the price and availability of beef, poultry or other meats and create negative publicity, which could result in a decline in sales. Additional instances of mad cow disease or other food-borne illnesses, such as bird flu, salmonella, e-coli or hepatitis A, could adversely affect the price and availability of beef, poultry or other meats. Additional incidents may cause consumers to shift their preferences to other meats. As a result, Arby’s restaurants could experience a significant increase in food costs if there are additional instances of mad cow disease or other food-borne illnesses. In addition to losses associated with higher prices and a lower supply of our food ingredients, instances of food-borne illnesses could result in negative publicity for Arby’s. This negative publicity, as well as any other negative publicity concerning types of food products Arby’s serves, may reduce demand for Arby’s food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to Arby’s restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to Arby’s restaurants as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could result in a decline in sales at company-owned restaurants or in ARG’s royalties from sales at franchised restaurants. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences and in discretionary consumer spending could result in a decline in sales at company-owned restaurants and in the royalties that ARG receives from franchisees. The quick service restaurant industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, discretionary spending priorities, demographic trends, traffic patterns and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. ARG’s success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, ARG may experience declines in sales during economic downturns. Any material decline in the amount of discretionary spending or a decline in family food-away-from-home spending could hurt ARG’s revenues, results of operations, business and financial condition. In addition, if company-owned and franchised restaurants are unable to adapt to changes in consumer preferences and trends, ARG and Arby’s franchisees may lose customers and the resulting revenues from company-owned restaurants and the royalties that ARG receives from its franchisees may decline. Changes in food and supply costs could harm ARG’s results of operations. ARG’s profitability depends in part on its ability to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs. Any increase in food prices, especially those of beef or chicken, could harm ARG’s operating results. Recently, ARG has experienced higher product costs as a result of (1) increased fuel costs, (2) the weak U.S. dollar, which has resulted in greater foreign demand for U.S. food products, and (3) the increased demand for ethanol as a fuel alternative. Ethanol production has increased the cost of corn, which has raised corn oil prices and contributed to higher beef and chicken prices stemming from increased corn feed pricing. The increase in fuel costs has also contributed to an increase in distribution costs from the distribution centers to the restaurants. In addition, ARG is susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of other factors beyond its control, such as weather conditions, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulations. Additionally, prices for feed ingredients used to produce beef and chicken could be adversely affected by changes in global weather patterns, which are inherently unpredictable. ARG cannot predict whether it will be able to anticipate and react to changing food costs by adjusting its purchasing practices and menu prices, and a failure to do so could adversely affect ARG’s operating results. In addition, ARG may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to its customers. Competition from other restaurant companies could hurt ARG. The market segments in which company-owned and franchised Arby’s restaurants compete are highly competitive with respect to, among other things, price, food quality and presentation, service, location, and the nature and condition of the restaurant facility. Arby’s restaurants compete with a variety of locally-owned restaurants, as well as competitive regional and national chains and franchises. Several of these chains compete by offering high quality sandwiches and/or menu items that are targeted at certain consumer groups. Additionally, many of our competitors have introduced lower cost, value meal menu options. ARG’s revenues and those of Arby’s franchisees may be hurt by this product and price competition. Moreover, new companies, including operators outside the quick service restaurant industry, may enter Arby’s market areas and target Arby’s customer base. For example, additional competitive pressures for prepared food purchases have come from deli sections and in-store cafes of a number of major grocery store chains, as well as from convenience stores and casual dining outlets. Such competitors may have, among other things, lower operating costs, lower debt service requirements, better locations, better facilities, better management, more effective marketing and more efficient operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do, which may allow them to react to changes in pricing and marketing strategies in the quick service restaurant industry better than we can. Many of our competitors spend significantly more on advertising and marketing than we do, which may give them a competitive advantage over Arby’s through higher levels of brand awareness among consumers. All such competition may adversely affect ARG’s revenues and profits by reducing revenues of company-owned restaurants and royalty payments from franchised restaurants. - 12 - - Current Arby's restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any restaurant depends in substantial part on its location. There can be no assurance that current Arby's locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where Arby's restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in those locations. In addition, rising real estate prices, particularly in the Northeastern region of the U.S. and in California, may restrict the ability of ARG or Arby's franchisees to purchase or lease new desirable locations. If desirable locations cannot be obtained at reasonable prices, ARG's ability to effect its growth strategies will be adversely affected. ARG’s business could be hurt by increased labor costs or labor shortages. Labor is a primary component in the cost of operating our company-owned restaurants. ARG devotes significant resources to recruiting and training its managers and hourly employees. Increased labor costs due to competition, increased minimum wage or employee benefits costs or other factors would adversely impact ARG’s cost of sales and operating expenses. In addition, ARG’s success depends on its ability to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees, including restaurant managers and staff. If ARG is unable to do so, its results of operations may be hurt. ARG's leasing and ownership of significant amounts of real estate exposes it to possible liabilities and losses, including liabilities associated with environmental matters. As of December 30, 2007, ARG leased or owned the land and/or the building for over 1,100 Arby's restaurants. Accordingly, ARG is subject to all of the risks associated with leasing and owning real estate. In particular, the value of our real property assets could decrease, and ARG's costs could increase, because of changes in the investment climate for real estate, demographic trends, supply or demand for the use of the restaurants, which may result from competition from similar restaurants in the area, and liability for environmental matters. ARG is subject to federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling, release and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances. These environmental laws provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, sometimes without regard to whether the owner, operator or occupant of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Third parties may also make claims against owners, operators or occupants of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of, or actual or alleged exposure to, such substances. A number of ARG's restaurant sites were formerly gas stations or are adjacent to current or former gas stations, or were used for other commercial activities that can create environmental impacts. ARG may also acquire or lease these types of sites in the future. ARG has not conducted a comprehensive environmental review of all of its properties. ARG may not have identified all of the potential environmental liabilities at its leased and owned properties, and any such liabilities identified in the future could cause ARG to incur significant costs, including costs associated with litigation, fines or clean-up responsibilities. ARG leases real property generally for initial terms of 20 years with two to four additional options to extend the term of the leases in consecutive five-year increments. Many leases provide that the landlord may increase the rent over the term of the lease and any renewals thereof. Most leases require ARG to pay all of the costs of insurance, taxes, maintenance and utilities. ARG generally cannot cancel these leases. If an existing or future restaurant is not profitable, and ARG decides to close it, ARG may nonetheless be committed to perform its obligations under the applicable lease including, among other things, paying the base rent for the balance of the lease term. In addition, as each of ARG's leases expires, ARG may fail to negotiate additional renewals or renewal options, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause ARG to close stores in desirable locations. Complaints or litigation may hurt ARG. Occasionally, ARG’s customers file complaints or lawsuits against it alleging that ARG is responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to an Arby’s restaurant, or alleging that there was a problem with food quality or operations at an Arby’s restaurant. ARG is also subject to a variety of other claims arising in the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury claims, contract claims, claims from franchisees and claims alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace and employment matters, discrimination and similar matters. ARG could also become subject to class action lawsuits related to these matters in the future. Regardless of whether any claims against ARG are valid or whether ARG is found to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert management’s attention away from operations and hurt ARG’s performance. A judgment significantly in excess of ARG’s insurance coverage for any claims could materially adversely affect ARG’s financial condition or results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may hurt ARG and Arby’s franchisees. Additionally, the restaurant industry has been subject to a number of claims that the menus and actions of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of certain of their customers. Adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may harm the reputation of Arby’s restaurants, even if the allegations are not directed against Arby’s restaurants or are not valid, and even if ARG is not found liable or the concerns relate only to a single restaurant or a limited number of restaurants. Moreover, complaints, litigation or adverse publicity experienced by one or more of Arby’s franchisees could also hurt ARG’s business as a whole. - 13 - - ARG’s current insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims it may file. ARG currently maintains insurance it believes is customary for businesses of its size and type. However, there are types of losses it may incur that cannot be insured against or that ARG believes are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to natural disasters or acts of terrorism. In addition, ARG currently self-insures a significant portion of expected losses under its workers compensation, general liability and property insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying ARG’s reserves for these losses could result in materially different amounts of expense under these programs, which could harm ARG’s business and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Changes in governmental regulation may hurt ARG’s ability to open new restaurants or otherwise hurt ARG’s existing and future operations and results. Each Arby’s restaurant is subject to licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, safety and other agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located. State and local government authorities may enact laws, rules or regulations that impact restaurant operations and the cost of conducting those operations. For example, recent efforts to require the listing of specified nutritional information on menus and menu boards could adversely affect consumer demand for our products, could make our menu boards less appealing and could increase our costs of doing business. There can be no assurance that ARG and/or Arby’s franchisees will not experience material difficulties or failures in obtaining the necessary licenses or approvals for new restaurants, which could delay the opening of such restaurants in the future. In addition, more stringent and varied requirements of local governmental bodies with respect to tax, zoning, land use and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations. ARG, and Arby’s franchisees, are also subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, along with the ADA, family leave mandates and a variety of other laws enacted by the states that govern these and other employment law matters. As described more fully under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” one of our subsidiaries was a defendant in a lawsuit alleging failure to comply with Title III of the ADA at approximately 775 company-owned restaurants acquired as part of the RTM acquisition in July 2005. Under a court approved settlement of that lawsuit, ARG estimates that it will spend approximately $1.15 million per year of capital expenditures over a seven-year period commencing in 2008 to bring these restaurants into compliance with the ADA, in addition to paying certain legal fees and expenses. ARG cannot predict the amount of any other future expenditures that may be required in order to permit company-owned restaurants to comply with any changes in existing regulations or to comply with any future regulations that may become applicable to ARG’s business. ARG’s operations could be influenced by weather conditions. Weather, which is unpredictable, can impact Arby’s restaurant sales. Harsh weather conditions that keep customers from dining out result in lost opportunities for Arby’s restaurants. A heavy snowstorm in the Northeast or Midwest or a hurricane in the Southeast can shut down an entire metropolitan area, resulting in a reduction in sales in that area. Our first quarter includes winter months and historically has a lower level of sales at company-owned restaurants. Because a significant portion of ARG’s restaurant operating costs is fixed or semi-fixed in nature, the loss of sales during these periods hurts ARG’s operating margins, and can result in restaurant operating losses. For these reasons, a quarter-to-quarter comparison may not be a good indication of ARG’s performance or how it may perform in the future. Due to the concentration of Arby’s restaurants in particular geographic regions, ARG’s business results could be impacted by the adverse economic conditions prevailing in those regions regardless of the state of the national economy as a whole. As of December 30, 2007 ARG and Arby’s franchisees operated Arby’s restaurants in 48 states and four foreign countries. As of December 30, 2007, the six leading states by number of operating units were: Ohio, with 291 restaurants; Michigan, with 196 restaurants; Indiana, with 181 restaurants; Florida, with 176 restaurants; Texas, with 167 restaurants; and Georgia, with 153 restaurants. This geographic concentration can cause economic conditions in particular areas of the country to have a disproportionate impact on ARG’s overall results of operations. It is possible that adverse economic conditions in states or regions that contain a high concentration of Arby’s restaurants could have a material adverse impact on ARG’s results of operations in the future. ARG and its subsidiaries are subject to various restrictions, and substantially all of their assets are pledged, under a credit agreement. Under its credit agreement, substantially all of the assets of ARG and its subsidiaries (other than real property) are pledged as collateral security. The credit agreement also contains financial covenants that, among other things, require ARG and its subsidiaries to maintain certain financial ratios and restrict their ability to incur debt, pay dividends or make other distributions, enter into certain fundamental transactions (including sales of assets and certain mergers and consolidations) and create or permit liens. If ARG and its subsidiaries are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments of interest or principal under, or are unable to comply with covenants of, the credit agreement, then they would be in default under the terms of the credit agreement, which would preclude the payment of dividends to Triarc, restrict access to ARG’s revolving line of credit and, under certain circumstances, permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness. You should read the information in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. - 14 - - We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and hurt our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, service marks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brands and other intellectual property. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both existing and new markets. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the Internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the failure of our brands to achieve and maintain market acceptance. This could harm our image, brand or competitive position and, if we commence litigation to enforce our rights, cause us to incur significant legal fees. We franchise our restaurant brands to various franchisees. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brands is maintained by all of our franchisees, we cannot assure you that these franchisees will not take actions that hurt the value of our intellectual property or the reputation of the Arby’s restaurant system. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. The trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries outside of the United States in which we do business or may do business in the future and may never be registered in all of these countries. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim infringement by us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause delays in introducing new menu items or investment products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could harm our business and cause a decline in our results of operations and financial condition. Other Risks The value of our interest in DFR is subject to risks related to that business. At December 30, 2007, as a result of the Deerfield Sale, we hold approximately $48 million principal amount of senior secured notes of DFR and beneficially own approximately 15% of DFR’s outstanding common stock, assuming conversion of all convertible preferred stock we own. DFR is a diversified financial company that invests in real estate investments, primarily mortgage-backed securities, as well as corporate investments. At December 30, 2007, the aggregate carrying value of our investment in DFR was approximately $118.5 million. Our investment in the convertible preferred stock of DFR currently is non-marketable; however, it is mandatorily redeemable in seven years from issuance. We value the preferred shares based on the quoted market price of the common shares of DFR into which they are convertible. If those shares should decline in value other than on a temporary basis, then in the reporting period in which it is determined that the decline is other than temporary, all or a portion of the decline would be required to be recognized in our statement of operations. Payments to us of principal and interest under the senior secured notes, which mature in December 2012, are dependent on the cash flow of DFR. DFR’s investment portfolio is comprised primarily of fixed income investments, including mortgage-backed securities and corporate debt. Among the factors that may adversely affect DFR’s ability to make payments under the senior secured notes are the current weakness in the mortgage sector in particular and the broader financial markets in general. This weakness could adversely affect DFR and one or more of its lenders, which could result in increases in their borrowing costs, reductions in their liquidity and reductions in the value of the investments in their portfolio, all of which could reduce DFR’s cash flow and adversely affect its ability to make payments to us under the senior secured notes. Such a condition could result in an impairment charge by us or a provision by us for uncollectible notes receivable which could be material. See Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statement for a subsequent event related to our investments in DFR. One of our subsidiaries remains contingently liable with respect to certain obligations relating to a business that we have sold. In July 1999, we sold 41.7% of our then remaining 42.7% interest in National Propane Partners, L.P. and a sub-partnership, National Propane, L.P. to Columbia Energy Group, and retained less than a 1% special limited partner interest in AmeriGas Eagle Propane, L.P. (formerly known as National Propane, L.P. and as Columbia Propane, L.P.). As part of the transaction, our subsidiary, National Propane Corporation, agreed that while it remains a special limited partner of AmeriGas, it would indemnify the owner of AmeriGas for any payments the owner makes under certain debt of AmeriGas (aggregating approximately $138.0 million as of December 30, 2007), if AmeriGas is unable to repay or refinance such debt, but only after recourse to the assets of AmeriGas. Either National Propane Corporation or AmeriGas Propane, L.P., the owner of AmeriGas, may require AmeriGas to repurchase the special limited partner interest. However, we believe it is unlikely that either party would require repurchase prior to 2009 as either AmeriGas Propane, L.P. would owe us tax indemnification payments or we would accelerate payment of deferred taxes, which amount to approximately $35.9 million as of December 30, 2007, associated with our sale of the propane business. - 15 - - Although we believe that it is unlikely that we will be called upon to make any payments under the indemnification described above, if we are required to make such payments it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. You should read the information in “Item. 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in environmental regulation may adversely affect our existing and future operations and results. Certain of our current and past operations are or have been subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances that provide for significant fines, penalties and liabilities, in certain cases without regard to whether the owner or operator of the property knew of, or was responsible for, the release or presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, third parties may make claims against owners or operators of properties for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. Although we believe that our operations comply in all material respects with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted. We cannot predict the amount of future expenditures that may be required in order to comply with any environmental laws or regulations or to satisfy any such claims. See “Item 1. Business--General--Environmental Matters.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 