ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently deem immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline. 19 Table of Contents Our Revenue is Highly Concentrated on the DoD and Other Federal Agencies, and a Significant Portion of Our Revenue is Derived From a Few Customers. Decreases in Their Budgets, Changes in Program Priorities or Military Base Closures Could Adversely Affect Our Results. During 2008 and 2007, approximately 86% and 92%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from U.S. Government agencies. Within the DoD, certain individual programs account for a significant portion of our U.S. Government business. Our revenue from contracts with the DoD, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor, accounted for approximately 65% and 78% of our total revenue in 2008 and 2007, respectively. We cannot provide any assurance that any of these programs will continue as such or will continue at current levels or that military base closures or realignments will not affect such programs or our ability to re-staff such programs. Our revenue could be adversely affected by significant changes in defense spending priorities or declining U.S. defense budgets. Current budget pressures on the U.S. Government caused principally by the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan may have adverse effects on our business. Because war expenditures are not expected to abate significantly in the near term, we anticipate continual risks related to expenditures on programs we support. It is not possible for us to predict whether defense budgets will increase or decline in the future. Further, changing missions and priorities in the defense budget may have adverse effects on our business. Funding limitations could result in a reduction, delay or cancellation of existing or emerging programs. We anticipate there will continue to be significant competition when our defense contracts are re-bid, as well as significant competitive pressure to lower prices, which may reduce profitability in this area of our business, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Must Bear the Risk of Various Pricing Structures Associated With Government Contracts. We historically have derived a substantial portion of our revenue from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. Government. A significant portion of our federal and state government contracts are undertaken on a time and materials nature, with fixed hourly rates that are intended to cover salaries, benefits, other indirect costs of operating the business and profit. Our time and material contracts represented 48% and 56% of total revenue in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The pricing of these contracts is based upon estimates of future costs and assumptions as to the aggregate volume of business that we will perform in a given business division or other relevant unit. We undertake various government projects on a fixed-price basis. Our revenues earned under fixed price contracts have increased as a percentage of total revenues to approximately 32% in 2008 from approximately 21% in 2007. Under a fixed-price contract, the government pays an agreed upon price for our services or products, and we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profits or cause us to incur a loss. Significant cost overruns can occur if we fail to: • adequately estimate the resources required to complete a project; • properly determine the scope of an engagement; or • complete our contractual obligation in a manner consistent with the project plan. For fixed price contracts, we must estimate the costs necessary to complete the defined statement of work and recognize revenue or losses in accordance with such estimates. Actual costs may vary materially from the estimates made from time to time, necessitating adjustments to reported revenue and net income. Underestimates of the costs associated with a project could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. While we endeavor to maintain and improve contract profitability, we cannot be certain that any of our existing or future fixed-price projects will be profitable. During 2008, we began working on our multi-year, fixed price engagement with the State of Tennessee and are nearing completion of a large multi-year, fixed price engagement with the State of Ohio. A substantial portion of our U.S. Government business is as a subcontractor. In such circumstances, we generally bear the risk that the prime contractor will meet its performance obligations to the U.S. Government under the prime contract and that the prime contractor will have the financial capability to pay us amounts due under the subcontract. The inability of a prime contractor to perform or make required payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Contracts and Subcontracts with Government Agencies are Subject to a Competitive Bidding Process and to Termination Without Cause by the Government. A significant portion of our federal and state government contracts are renewable on an annual basis, or are subject to the exercise of contractual options. Multi-year contracts often require funding actions by the U.S. Government, a state legislature or others on an 20 Table of Contents annual or more frequent basis. As a result, our business could experience material adverse consequences should such funding actions or other approvals not be taken. Recent federal regulations and renewed congressional interest in small business set aside contracts are likely to influence decisions pertaining to contracting methods for many of our customers. These regulations require more frequent review and certification of small business contractor status, to ensure that companies competing for contracts intended for small business are qualified as such at the time of the competition. Governmental awards of contracts are subject to regulations and procedures that permit formal bidding procedures and protests by losing bidders. Such protests may result in significant delays in the commencement of expected contracts, the reversal of a previous award decision or the reopening of the competitive bidding process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because of the complexity and scheduling of contracting with government agencies, from time to time we may incur costs before receiving contractual funding by the U.S. Government. In some circumstances, we may not be able to recover such costs in whole or in part under subsequent contractual actions. Failure to collect such amounts may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the U.S. Government has the right to terminate contracts for convenience. If the government terminated contracts with us, we would generally recover costs incurred up to termination, costs required to be incurred in connection with the termination and a portion of the fee earned commensurate with the work we have performed to termination. However, significant adverse effects on our indirect cost pools may not be recoverable in connection with a termination for convenience. Contracts with state and other governmental entities are subject to the same or similar risks. Any such terminations may have material adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Are Subject to a High Level of Government Regulations and Audits Under Our Government Contracts and Subcontracts. As a defense contractor, we are subject to many levels of audit and review, including by the Defense Contract Audit Agency, Defense Contract Management Agency, various inspectors general, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Government Accountability Office, the Department of Justice and Congressional Committees. These audits and reviews could result in the termination of contracts, the imposition of fines or penalties, the withholding of payments due to us or the prohibition from participating in certain U.S. Government contracts for a specified period of time. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Loss of Key Personnel Could Limit Our Growth. We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical personnel. Many of our technical personnel may have specific knowledge and experience related to various government customer operations and these individuals would be difficult to replace in a timely fashion. In addition, qualified technical personnel are in high demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource. The loss of services of key personnel could impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts, to retain this business after the expiration of the existing contract, or to win new business in the event that we lost the services of individuals who have been identified in a given proposal as key personnel in the proposal. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Failure to Obtain and Maintain Necessary Security Clearances May Limit Our Ability to Perform Classified Work for Government Clients, Which Could Harm Our Business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances, and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain security clearances on a timely basis, or we lose a facility clearance, the government client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew the contract upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent that we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis or fail to maintain these security clearances, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Security Breaches in Sensitive Government Systems Could Harm Our Business. Many of the systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security, and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation, and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We could incur losses from a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our errors and omissions and product liability insurance. Damage to our reputation or limitations on our eligibility for additional work resulting from 21 Table of Contents a security breach in one of our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Employees May Engage in Misconduct or Other Improper Activities, Which Could Harm Our Business. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We Are Involved in Litigation Matters Which, If Not Resolved in Our Favor, Could Harm Our Business. We are involved in litigation matters which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. These litigation matters are more fully described in Note 13 of our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. If Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Does Not Comply with Financial Reporting and Control Management Requirements, There Could Be a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operations or Financial Results. Also, Current and Potential Stockholders Could Lose Confidence in Our Financial Reporting, Which Would Harm Our Business and the Trading Price of Our Common Stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal control over financial reporting that need improvement. Although our management has determined, and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested, that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of December 31, 2008, we cannot assure you whether or not we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require management and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our stock. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets and May Have Difficulties Entering New Markets. The government contracting business is subject to intense competition from numerous companies. The principal competitive factors are prior performance, previous experience, technical competence and price. In our efforts to enter new markets and attract new customers, we generally face significant competition from other companies that have prior experience with such potential customers. As a result, we may not achieve the level of success that we expect in our efforts to enter such new markets. Competition in the market for our commercial products is also intense. There is a significant lead-time for developing this business, and it involves substantial capital investment including development of prototypes and investment in manufacturing equipment. Principal competitive factors are product quality, the ability to specialize our engineering in order to meet our customers’ specific system requirements and price. Our precision products business has a number of competitors, many of which have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims. Our precision manufactured products are generally designed to operate as important components of complex systems or products. Defects in our products could cause our customer’s product or systems to fail or perform below expectations. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for such defects or failures, we cannot assure you that our attempts to limit our liability will be successful. Like other manufacturing companies, we may be subject to claims for alleged performance issues related to our products. Such claims, if made, could damage our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Economic Events May Adversely Affect Our Business Segments. Many of our precision products are components of commercial products. Factors that affect the production and demand for such products, including economic events both domestically and in other regions of the world, competition, technological change and 22 Table of Contents production disruption, could adversely affect demand for our products. Many of our products are incorporated into capital equipment, including machine tools and other automated production equipment, used in the manufacture of other products. As a result, this portion of our business may be subject to fluctuations in the manufacturing sector of the overall economy. An economic recession, either in the U.S. or elsewhere in the world, could have a material adverse effect on the rate of orders received by the commercial division. Significantly lower production volumes resulting in under-utilization of our manufacturing facilities would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Products and Services Could Become Obsolete Due to Rapid Technological Changes in the Industry. We offer sophisticated products and services in areas in which there have been and are expected to continue to be significant technological changes. Many of our products are incorporated into sophisticated machinery, equipment or electronic systems. Technological changes may be incorporated into competitors’ products that may adversely affect the market for our products. If our competitors introduce superior technologies or products, we cannot assure you that we will be able to respond quickly enough to such changes or to offer services that satisfy our customers’ requirements at a competitive price. Further, we cannot provide any assurance that our research and product development efforts will be successful or result in new or improved products or services that may be required to sustain our market position. Our Financing Requirements May Increase and We Could Have Limited Access to Capital Markets. The United States and worldwide capital and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. While we believe that our current resources and access to capital markets are adequate to support operations over the near term and foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that these circumstances will remain unchanged. Our need for capital is dependent on operating results and may be greater than expected. Our ability to maintain our current sources of debt financing depends on our ability to remain in compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements, including, among other requirements, maintaining a minimum total net worth and minimum cash flow and debt coverage ratios. If changes in capital markets restrict the availability of funds or increase the cost of funds, we may be required to modify, delay or abandon some of our planned expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Operating Results May Vary Significantly From Quarter to Quarter and Such Fluctuations May Affect the Price of Our Common Stock. Our revenue and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including: • the number, size and timing of client projects commenced and completed during a quarter; • contract wins and losses; • changes to existing contracts made by our customers; • bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • progress on fixed-price projects during a given quarter; • employee productivity and hiring, attrition and utilization rates; • rapid changes in demand from our precision manufacturing customers; • accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing projects; • the trend in interest rates; and • general economic conditions. We May Not Make or Complete Future Mergers, Acquisitions or Strategic Alliances or Investments Which May Adversely Affect Our Growth. In 2008 we acquired Kadix, in 2004 we acquired Impact Innovations Group LLC, and in 2002 we acquired H.J. Ford and Andrulis Corporation. We may seek to continue to expand our operations through mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances with businesses that will complement our existing business. However, we may not be able to find attractive candidates, or enter into acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us, or successfully integrate the operations of companies that we acquire. In addition, we may compete with other companies for these acquisition candidates, which could make an acquisition more expensive for us. If we are able to successfully identify and complete an acquisition or similar transaction, it could involve a number of risks, including, among others: • the difficulty of assimilating the acquired operations and personnel; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of resources and management time; • the potential failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • the difficulty of integrating systems, operations and cultures; and • the potential impairment of relationships with customers as a result of changes in management or otherwise arising out of such transactions. 23 Table of Contents We cannot assure that any acquisition will be made, that we will be able to obtain financing needed to fund any acquisitions and, if any acquisitions are so made, that the acquired business will be successfully integrated into our operations or that the acquired business will perform as expected. In addition, if we were to proceed with one or more significant strategic alliances, acquisitions or investments in which the consideration consists of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash could be used to consummate the strategic alliances, acquisitions or investments. The financial impact of acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. The Market Price of Our Common Stock May Be Volatile. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Many factors that have influenced trading prices will vary from period to period, including: decreases in our earnings and revenue or quarterly operating results, changes in estimates by analysts, market conditions in the industry, announcements and new developments by competitors, and regulatory reviews. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, low trading volume in our common stock may cause volatility in stock price. We are Subject to Changes in United States and Global Market Conditions That Are Beyond Our Control and May Have a Material Effect on Our Business and Results of Operations. The United States and global economies are currently experiencing a period of substantial economic uncertainty with wide-ranging effects, including the current disruption in global financial markets. Possible effects of these economic events are described in the preceding risk factors, including those relating to U.S. Government defense spending, business disruptions caused by suppliers or subcontractors, impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, pension costs and access to capital and credit markets. Although governments worldwide, including the U.S. Government, have initiated sweeping economic plans, the Company is unable to predict the impact, severity, and duration of these economic events, which could have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that (1) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of our 2008 fiscal year, (2) remain unresolved and (3) we believe are material. 