ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently deem immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our Revenue is Highly Dependent on the Federal Government. Changes in Federal Spending Priorities or Policies Could Adversely Affect Our Results. Certain individual programs account for a significant portion of our U.S. Government business. We cannot provide any assurance that any of these programs will continue at current levels. Our revenue could be adversely affected by significant changes in federal spending priorities or policies such as: • decreases in spending by agencies or programs we support; • changes in funding priorities within the U.S. Government; • replacement of professional services contractors with federal employees (i.e., in-sourcing); • federal government shutdowns due to weather, security threats, lack of budget funding or other reasons; • delays in payment of our invoices due to policy changes or problems with government information systems; • failure of Congress to timely pass sufficient appropriations to fund our programs; • increased allocation of federal contracts to small minority-owned or disadvantaged businesses; • failure of Congress to continue funding of programs that extend over multiple fiscal years; • diversion of funds to pay for international conflicts or reconstruction; or • DoD base realignment and closures. In 2011 and 2010, we generated 95% and 93% of our revenues, respectively, from contracts with the United States government, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor. As a result we are significantly impacted by trends and changes in federal expenditures and procurement policies. The U.S. government deficit, budgetary challenges and efforts to curtail expenditures are on-going and reflected in (i) the Budget Control Act of 2011, which increased the debt ceiling and enacted 10-year discretionary spending caps and automatic spending cuts, referred to as sequestration, which will enact $1.2 trillion of spending cuts over 10 years, if not amended by Congress and the President, (ii) the Defense Strategic Guidance, issued on January 5, 2012 which outlines fundamental changes in strategy- a force, which is smaller, leaner but agile, flexible and technologically advanced, and (iii) the President’s budget submission for the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2012. Additionally, sizeable mandatory outlays for social security and medical programs in the face of large budget deficits indicate that federal discretionary spending will remain under pressure. Overall, the President’s information technology budget request of $78.9 billion for fiscal year 2013 is down slightly from the fiscal year 2012 enacted budget, reflecting reductions in defense and intelligence budgets and increases in civilian agencies such as the Departments of Treasury, Veterans Affairs and Education. 18 Table of Contents We have seen and anticipate continued impacts from government budget management initiatives, the specific timing and effects of which may be not be predictable, such as: • Program delays, cuts and terminations, • fewer new program starts, • intensified price competition for new business and re-competes of current business, and • pressure to reduce dependency on service contractors and set more work aside for small and socially disadvantaged businesses. These events may result in (i) new business contract wins being lower than expected or needed to sustain growth, (i) ending of or reductions to current programs and contracts, and (iii) lower profit margins as a result of pricing pressure and the need to invest in winning new and retaining existing business – all of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We Must Bear the Risk of Various Pricing Structures Associated With Government Contracts. We derive most of our revenue from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. Government. A significant portion of our federal and state government contracts are undertaken on a time and materials basis, with fixed hourly rates that are intended to cover salaries, benefits, other indirect costs of operating the business and profit. Our time and material contracts represented 32% of total revenue in 2011 and 2010. The pricing of these contracts is based upon estimates of future salaries and costs and assumptions as to the aggregate volume of business that we will perform in a given business division or other relevant unit. We undertake various government projects on a fixed-price basis. Our revenues earned under fixed price contracts as a percentage of total revenues represented 48% and 47% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Under a fixed-price contract, the government pays an agreed upon price for our services or products, and we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profits or cause us to incur a loss. Significant cost overruns can occur if we fail to: • adequately estimate the resources required to complete a project; • properly determine the scope of an engagement; or • complete our contractual obligation in a manner consistent with the project plan. For fixed price contracts, we must estimate the costs necessary to complete the defined statement of work and recognize revenue or losses in accordance with such estimates. Actual costs may vary materially from the estimates made from time to time, necessitating adjustments to reported revenue and net income. Underestimates of the costs associated with a project could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. While we endeavor to maintain and improve contract profitability, we cannot be certain that any of our existing or future fixed-price projects will be profitable. A substantial portion of our U.S. Government business is as a subcontractor. In such circumstances, we generally bear the risk that the prime contractor will meet its performance obligations to the U.S. Government under the prime contract and that the prime contractor will have the financial capability to pay us amounts due under the subcontract. The inability of a prime contractor to perform or make required payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Federal Government Contracts Contain Provisions Giving Government Customers a Variety of Rights that are Unfavorable to Us, Including the Ability to Terminate a Contract at Any Time for Convenience. Federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow the government to, among other things: • terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default; • reduce orders under, or otherwise modify, contracts or subcontracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency as a result of a finding of an organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors; • subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest; and • claim rights in products and systems produced by us. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Due to current budgetary pressures to decrease federal spending, there may be an increased likelihood that funding may be terminated or reduced in one or more programs in which we participate, which may result in a greater number of contractual terminations for convenience. If one of our government customers were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel or decline to exercise an option to renew one or more of our significant contracts or programs, our revenues and operating results would be materially harmed. Our Contracts and Subcontracts with Government Agencies Are Subject to a Competitive Bidding Process. We May Be Unsuccessful in Re-Competition for Work We Are Currently Performing. Most of our federal and state government contracts are renewable on an annual basis, or are subject to the exercise of contractual options. Multi-year contracts often require funding actions by the U.S. Government, a state legislature, or others on an annual or more frequent basis. As a result, our business could experience material adverse consequences should such funding actions or other approvals not be taken. We operate in a highly competitive market, and routinely we must compete to re-win work we are currently performing. On all of these re-competitions there exists a reasonable possibility that we will not be the winner, in which event future revenues, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Governmental awards of contracts are subject to regulations and procedures that permit formal bidding procedures and protests by losing bidders. Such protests may result in significant delays in the commencement of expected contracts, the reversal of a previous award decision, or the reopening of the competitive bidding process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Federal Government In-Sourcing Could Result in Loss of Business Opportunities and Personnel. The federal government has continued to reduce the percentage of contracted services in favor of more federal employees through an initiative called “in-sourcing.” Over time in-sourcing could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, as a result of in-sourcing federal procurements for services could be fewer and smaller in the future. In addition, work DRC currently performs could be in-sourced by the federal government and, as a result, the Company’s revenues could be reduced. Moreover, DRC employees working on contracts could also be hired by the government. This loss of DRC employees would necessitate the need to retain new employees. Accordingly, the effect of in-sourcing, or the continuation of in-sourcing at a faster than expected rate, could have a materially adverse affect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations over time. Since January 1, 2010, we have experienced a reduction in positions and approximately a $21 million reduction in annual revenue from in-sourcing. Inability to Hire or the Loss of Personnel Could Limit Our Growth. We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical personnel. Many of our technical personnel may have specific knowledge and experience related to various government customer operations and these individuals would be difficult to replace in a timely fashion. In addition, qualified technical personnel are in high demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource. The loss of services of personnel could impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts, to retain this business after the expiration of the existing contract, or to win new business in the event that we lost the services of individuals who have been identified in a given proposal as key personnel in the proposal. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our Failure to Obtain and Maintain Necessary Security Clearances May Limit Our Ability to Perform Classified Work for Government Clients, Which Could Harm Our Business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances, and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain security clearances on a timely basis, or we lose a facility clearance, the government client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew the contract upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent that we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis or fail to maintain these security clearances, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Security Breaches in Sensitive Government Systems Could Harm Our Business. Many of the systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We could incur losses from a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our errors and omissions and product liability insurance. Damage to our reputation, limitations on our eligibility for additional work or other losses we incur resulting from a security breach in one of our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Our Business Could Be Negatively Impacted By Security Threats, Including Cyber Security Threats, and Other Disruptions. As a federal government contractor, security risks regarding our information include (i) theft of proprietary or competitive information, (ii) disabling of our administrative systems and disruption to our business, (iii) security breaches of government systems, for which we provide support services, and (iv) loss of business as a result of harm to the Company’s reputation due to a security breach. Over the past year, branches of the federal government and contractors that work for the federal government have been particularly prone to overseas hacking attempts. Defensive measures taken by us may be inadequate to prevent a breach in security, which could have a material adverse impact on operating results and financial condition. The Failure by Congress to Approve Budgets on a Timely Basis for the Federal Agencies We Support Could Delay Procurement of Our Services and Solutions and Cause Us to Lose Future Revenues. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by the federal agencies that we support. In years when Congress is not able to complete its budget process before the end of the federal government’s fiscal year on September 30, Congress typically funds government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution. A continuing resolution allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in new initiatives being delayed or in some cases cancelled. Resulting delays in the collection of accounts receivable or delays or cancellations of existing projects could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, the proposed 2013 fiscal year budgetary sequestration could adversely impact our revenue. Failure to Maintain Strong Relationships with Other Contractors Could Result in a Decline in Our Revenues. In 2011 and 2010, we derived 21% and 27% of our revenues, respectively, from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors or to joint ventures that we and other contractors formed to bid on and execute particular contracts or programs. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be harmed if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or joint venture relationships with us because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors; they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business; the government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs; or the government does not award them new contracts. Many of Our Federal Government Customers Execute Their Procurement Budgets Through Multiple Award Contracts Under Which We Are Required to Compete for Post-Award Orders, Potentially Limiting Our Ability to Win New Contracts and Increase Revenue. Changes in the federal procurement process have caused many U.S. Government customers to increasingly purchase goods and services through multiple award ID/IQ contracts and other multiple award and/or government-wide acquisition contract vehicles. These contract vehicles require that we make sustained post-award efforts to obtain task orders under the relevant contract. There can be no assurance that we will obtain revenues or otherwise sell successfully under these contract vehicles. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment could harm our operating results. Our inability to win re-competitions of the multiple award contracts we currently hold could have a material adverse effect on future revenues, operating results and cash flows. Also our inability to win newly competed multiple award schedule contracts, which we do not currently hold, may impede our ability to grow. 22 Table of Contents We May Lose Revenue and Our Cash Flow and Profitability Could Be Negatively Affected if Expenditures Are Incurred Prior to Final Receipt of a Contract or Contract Funding Modification. We provide professional services and sometimes procure materials on behalf of our government clients under various contract arrangements. From time to time, in order to ensure that we satisfy our clients’ delivery requirements and schedules, we may elect to initiate procurements or provide services in advance of receiving formal contractual authorization from the government client or a prime contractor. If our government client or prime contractor requirements should change or the government directs the anticipated procurement to a contractor other than us, or if the materials become obsolete or require modification before we are under contract for the procurement, our investment might be at risk. If we do not receive the required funding, our cost of services incurred in excess of contractual funding may not be recoverable. This could reduce anticipated revenue or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow and profitability. We May Be Liable for Systems and Service Failures. We create, implement and maintain IT and technical services solutions that are often critical to our customers’ operations, including those of federal, state and local governments. We may in the future experience some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays and other problems in connection with our work. If our solutions, services, products or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers’ expectations, we may: • lose revenues due to adverse customer reaction; • be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge or a discount; • receive negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • suffer claims for substantial damages against us. In addition to any costs resulting from product warranties, contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if they result in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work, canceling contracts, or failing to renew contracts. While many of our contracts with the federal government limit our liability for damages that may arise from negligence in rendering services to our customers, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages if we are sued. Even if unsuccessful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs that may be a distraction to our management and/or may harm our reputation. If We Fail to Comply with Complex Procurement Laws and Regulations, We Could Lose Business and Be Subject to Various Penalties or Sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government contracts. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs. Non-compliance may also allow for the assignment of additional fines and penalties, including contractual damages. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; • laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services, and technical data; and • U.S export controls, which apply when we engage in international work. 23 Table of Contents Failure to comply with these control regimes can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Our contracting agency customers periodically review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including: • termination of contracts; • forfeiture of profits; • cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses; • suspension of payments; • fines; and • suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Additionally, the civil False Claims Act provides for potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government, who may then share a portion of any recovery. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be materially harmed. The government may also revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, at any time. Any new contracting methods could be costly to satisfy, be administratively difficult for us to implement, and impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Our Contracts and Administrative Processes and Systems Are Subject to Government Regulations, Audits and Cost Adjustments By the Federal Government, Which Could Reduce Our Revenue, Disrupt Our Business or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Federal government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), the Defense Contract Management Agency, various inspectors general, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Government Accountability Office, and the DOJ, routinely audit and investigate government contracts and government contractors’ administrative processes, and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They also review our compliance with government regulations and policies and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, accounting, estimating, compensation, and management information processes and systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded and certain penalties may be imposed. DCAA audits for costs incurred on work performed after December 31, 2007 have not yet been completed. In addition, DCAA audits for costs incurred by our recent acquisitions for certain periods prior to acquisition have not yet been finalized. 24 Table of Contents An unfavorable outcome of an audit by the DCAA or another government agency may adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts or collect our revenue in a timely manner. Such possibilities include that: • we would be required to reimburse the government for amounts previously received; • our pricing on contracts may be prospectively reduced; • payments to us may be significantly delayed or withheld; and • our ability to compete may be impaired by negative audit reports or by the failure to receive audit reports. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the federal government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We do not know the outcome of pending or future audits. Our Markets are Highly Competitive, and Many of the Companies We Compete Against Have Substantially Greater Resources. The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors may compete more effectively than we can because they are larger, better financed and better known companies than we are. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and client preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our revenue may decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address client needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. There is also a significant industry trend towards consolidation, which may result in the emergence of companies who are better able to compete against us. The results of these competitive pressures could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our Failure to Adequately Protect Our Confidential Information and Proprietary Rights May Harm Our Competitive Position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property in order to take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be harmed and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Loss of Our Position as a Qualified Contractor Under One or More General Services Administration Schedules, Would Impair Our Operating Results and Our Ability to Keep Our Existing Business or Win New Business. If we were to lose any of our GSA schedules or our prime contractor position on any of our contracts, we could lose revenues, and our ability to win new business and our operating results could decline as a result. 25 Table of Contents A Preference for Minority-Owned, Small and Small Disadvantaged Businesses Could Impact Our Ability to be a Prime Contractor on Certain Governmental Procurements. As a result of the SBA set-aside program, the federal government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small, or small disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and in general would be restricted to no more than 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. If Our Employees Engage in Misconduct or Other Improper Activities, Our Business Could Be Harmed. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients’ sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We Are Involved in Litigation and Other Regulatory Matters Which, If Not Resolved in Our Favor, Could Harm Our Business. We are involved in litigation matters which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. As a defense contractor, DRC is subject to many levels of audit and review from various government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, various inspectors general, the Defense Criminal Investigation Service, the Government Accountability Office, the DOJ and Congressional committees. Both related to and unrelated to its defense industry involvement, DRC is, from time to time, involved in audits, lawsuits, claims, administrative proceedings, and investigations. We accrue for liabilities associated with these activities when it becomes probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. Except as noted below, we do not presently believe it is reasonably likely that any of these matters would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our evaluation of the likelihood of expenditures related to these matters is subject to change in future periods, depending on then current events and circumstances, which could have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Issuances of our securities are subject to federal and state securities laws, and certain holders of common stock issued by us may be entitled to rescind their purchases. Approximately 148,000 shares issued through DRC's employee stock purchase plan between July 2007 and May 2011, at purchase prices ranging from $6.63 to $14.12 per share, were not registered under the federal securities law. We intend to offer to repurchase the approximately 119,000 shares that continue to be held by the original purchasers. The cost to repurchase these shares would have exceeded market value by approximately $0.1 million based on the December 30, 2011 stock price. If the fair market value of our common stock decreases before such repurchase, it may materially increase the cost to us for such repurchase, impacting our financial condition and cash flows. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets and May Have Difficulties Entering New Markets. The government contracting business is subject to intense competition from numerous companies. The principal competitive factors are prior performance, previous experience, technical competence and price. In our efforts to enter new markets and attract new customers, we generally face significant competition from other companies that have prior experience with such potential customers. As a result, we may not achieve the level of success that we expect in our efforts to enter such new markets. 26 Table of Contents We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims. Certain components sold by DRC are generally designed to operate as important elements of complex systems or products. Defects in our products could cause our customer’s product or systems to fail or perform below expectations. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for such defects or failures, we cannot assure you that our attempts to limit our liability will be successful. As such, we may be subject to claims for alleged performance issues related to our products. Such claims, if made, could damage our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our Financing Requirements May Increase and We Could Have Limited Access to Capital Markets. Over the last several years, United States and worldwide capital and credit markets have experienced significant price volatility, dislocations, and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. While we believe that our current resources and access to capital markets are adequate to support operations over the near term and foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that these circumstances will remain unchanged. Our need for capital is dependent on operating results and may be greater than expected. Our ability to maintain our current sources of debt financing depends on our ability to remain in compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements, including, among other requirements, maintaining consolidated total leverage, consolidated senior leverage, and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratios. If changes in capital markets restrict the availability of funds or increase the cost of funds, we may be required to modify, delay or abandon some of our planned expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Fluctuations in our Operating Results and General Market Conditions May Affect the Price of Our Common Stock. Our revenue and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including: • the number, size and timing of client projects commenced and completed during a quarter; • contract wins and losses; • changes to existing contracts made by our customers; • bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • progress on fixed-price projects during a given quarter; • employee productivity and hiring, attrition and utilization rates; • rapid changes in demand from our precision manufacturing customers; • accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing projects; • the trend in interest rates; and • general economic conditions. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance, including: • decreases in our earnings and revenue or quarterly operating results; • changes in estimates by analysts; • repurchases of our common stock under a share repurchase program; • Market conditions in the industry; • announcements and new developments by competitors; and • regulatory reviews. If there is a decrease in the price of our common stock, we may be required to make a larger than expected contribution to our legacy pension plan fund to enable the pension plan fund to meet its obligations to plan participants. In addition, lower stock price could impair our ability to obtain financing to carry out our strategic plans. Finally, a decrease in the fair market value of our common stock may increase the amount of cash payable by us for the repurchase of our shares. Each of these consequences, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the our cash flow and liquidity. 27 Table of Contents We May Not Make or Complete Future Mergers, Acquisitions or Strategic Alliances or Investments Which May Adversely Affect Our Growth. Additionally, Acquired Operations May Perform at Levels Below Our Financial Projections or We May Be Unable to Successfully Integrate the Acquired Operations. We intend to continue to expand our operations through mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances with businesses that will complement our existing business. However, we may not be able to find attractive candidates, or enter into acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us, or successfully integrate the operations of companies that we acquire. In addition, we may compete with other companies for these acquisition candidates, which could make an acquisition more expensive for us. Furthermore, our credit facilities contain certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on investments, liens, and capital expenditures, that may make it more difficult to finance an acquisition that might otherwise be in our best interests. If we are able to successfully identify and complete an acquisition or similar transaction, it could involve a number of risks, including, among others: • the difficulty of assimilating the acquired operations and personnel; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of resources and management time; • the potential failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • the difficulty of integrating systems, operations and cultures; and • the potential impairment of relationships with customers as a result of changes in management or otherwise arising out of such transactions. We cannot assure that any acquisition will be made, that we will be able to obtain financing needed to fund any acquisitions and, if any acquisitions are so made, that the acquired business will be successfully integrated into our operations or that the acquired business will perform as expected. In addition, if we were to proceed with one or more significant strategic alliances, acquisitions, or investments in which the consideration consists of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash could be used to consummate the strategic alliances, acquisitions, or investments. The financial impact of acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. The Company Has Substantial Investments in Recorded Goodwill as a Result of Acquisitions, and Changes in Future Business Conditions Could Cause These Investments to Become Impaired, Requiring Substantial Write-Downs That Would Reduce the Company’s Operating Income. As of December 31, 2011, goodwill accounted for $211.8 million, or approximately 65%, of the Company’s recorded total assets. The Company’s goodwill increased significantly as a result of the HPTi merger. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, the Company reviews its goodwill for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant and sustained decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market conditions would increase the risk of impairment of recorded goodwill. If goodwill becomes impaired, the Company would record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that (1) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of our 2011 fiscal year, (2) remain unresolved, and (3) we believe are material. 28 Table of Contents 