Item 1A. Risk Factors This section identifies certain risks and uncertainties that the Company faces. If the Company is unable to appropriately address these and other circumstances that could have a negative effect on its business, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected, which could also cause the price of the Company’s stock to decline. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-looking Statements.” The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected by the inability to enhance existing products or introduce new products to meet consumer preferences, including timely introductions of new consumer technologies. Management believes that the Company’s future success depends upon its ability to predict and respond in a timely and effective manner to changes in the markets it serves. Consequently, the Company strives to introduce distinctive new products that anticipate changing consumer demands and capitalize upon emerging technologies. If the Company fails to introduce or suffers delays in introducing new products, misinterprets consumer preferences or fails to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for our products could decrease and our brand image could suffer. In addition, competitors may introduce new designs or technologies, undermining our products’ desirability. If any of the foregoing occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. Failure to maintain relationships with key customers and failure by key customers to purchase expected quantities of our products could have an adverse effect on our business. Cobra products are distributed through a network of over 300 retailers and distributors in the United States and over 30 distributors in Europe and elsewhere around the world. PPL products are sold through a network of 1,500 retailers and distributors in Europe. The Company’s success is dependent upon the ability to retain an existing base of customers to sell the Company’s products. Loss of these customers means loss of product placement and, consequently, a possible reduction in sales volume. Certain of the Company’s customers account for a large portion of the Company’s net sales. For instance, in 2012 sales to DAS were 12.9 percent of net sales and sales to Wal-Mart were 9.7 percent of net sales. We anticipate that DAS and Wal-Mart will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales in the foreseeable future. Customers are not obligated by any firm, long-term purchase commitments for our products. As a result, customers may cancel purchase commitments or reduce or delay orders on relatively short notice. The loss of sales to or a material delay in orders from, our key customers could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain of our distributors market competitors’ products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of the distributors to effectively promote our products could affect the Company’s ability to bring its products to market and could reduce sales. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors and retailers could also affect the level of their purchases of our products which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient amounts of high quality products on a timely basis, customer needs may not be met and reduced sales may result. Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third party manufacturers located outside of the United States, primarily in China, Hong Kong and South Korea. The ability to meet customers’ needs depends on the ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of products from multiple third party manufacturers. The Company utilizes multiple manufacturers for its products whenever practical, however certain products are dependent on a single manufacturer. If any of our principal third party manufacturers experience production problems, lack of 11 Table of Contents capacity or transportation disruptions, the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain of our third party manufacturers serve other customers, a number of which have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, third party manufacturers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate services for us on short notice. The extent to which changes in third party manufacturers would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business depends upon the timing of the changes, the product or products that the third party manufacturers produce and the volume of production. Dependence on third party manufacturers for products subjects the Company to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality or performance of such products. Quality or performance failures by third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition, which affects their production, could disrupt our ability to supply quality products to customers and thereby materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of components and materials may disrupt the supply of products resulting in reduced or delayed sales. The inability of third party manufacturers to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials used in our products could disrupt the supply of products or increase costs. Materials and components for some products may not be available in sufficient quantities to satisfy sales requirements as a result of supply shortages. Supply interruptions relating to products could result in lost sales opportunities which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of higher commodity prices and increased labor costs overseas may reduce the profitability of our business. Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third party manufacturers in China, Hong Kong and South Korea. Labor costs, particularly in China, are rising as are the costs of certain components used in our products because of higher commodity prices. To the extent we are not able to increase the prices of our products to offset these increased labor and component costs, our profitability and cash flow may be adversely affected. The Company competes with a large number of companies in the consumer electronics business, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected. The Company encounters strong competition from a number of companies in the consumer electronics business. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Competition is based principally on the introduction of new products and pricing. Competitors may have greater resources and operating and financial flexibility to introduce new products and withstand changes in pricing. To compete for sales, the Company may have to lower its prices or increase its investment in development of new technologies, which could reduce gross margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that the Company will continue to compete effectively against existing and new competitors that may enter our markets. A downturn in global economic and market conditions could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The consumer electronics products sold by the Company are generally discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumer spending is affected by many factors, including consumer confidence levels, interest rates, tax rates, employment levels and prospects and other general economic conditions. The recent economic slowdown and recession in the United States and worldwide economies decreased the demand for products and adversely affected sales, which could happen again if a similar downturn in global economic and market conditions occurs. Since 12 Table of Contents economic and market conditions vary within the Company’s business segments, the Company’s future performance by business segment will accordingly vary. In addition, deteriorating or weak economic conditions, or the forecast or perception of the same, may trigger changes in inventory levels at our retail customers, including a reduction in product offerings and out of stock situations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the cash surrender value of life insurance policies owned by the Company for the purpose of recovering the costs of deferred compensation programs for several current and former officers of the Company is affected by the market value of the underlying investments. Adverse market conditions may result in a decline in the cash surrender value of these life insurance policies, which would result in a non-cash expense that reduces our net income and would also reduce the collateral base available for our secured credit facility to the extent that such insurance policies are pledged as collateral. International markets expose us to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks relating to currency values and import/export policies. Substantially all of our products are manufactured to our specifications and engineering designs by suppliers located primarily in China, Hong Kong and South Korea. In addition, international sales, primarily in Canada and Europe (principally, the Netherlands, Russia, Sweden, Turkey, the Ukraine and the United Kingdom), represent a significant portion of our total sales. International activities pose risks not faced by companies that limit themselves to the United States market. These risks include: Ÿ changes in foreign currency exchange rates; Ÿ exchange controls; Ÿ changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; Ÿ issues affecting health and safety in specific countries or regions; Ÿ tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures in the United States or foreign countries and import or export licensing requirements; Ÿ increased shipping costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; Ÿ difficulties in enforcing remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws; Ÿ difficulties to recover inventory and equipment from vendors seeking protection pursuant to local bankruptcy laws; Ÿ potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws in the United States and/or foreign countries; and Ÿ different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Our revenues and purchases are predominately in U.S. dollars; however, a portion of our revenue is collectible in other currencies, principally euros and British pound sterling. The Company historically has negotiated substantially all of its purchases in U.S. dollars and occasionally uses forward contracts to purchase dollars at a fixed exchange rate to the British pound sterling or a fixed exchange rate to the euro. The Company considers opportunities to make purchases in other currencies to the extent that doing so would be advantageous in light of currency fluctuations involving the U.S. dollar and other currencies. As sales expand in international markets, customers may increasingly make payments in currencies other than U.S. dollars, which could have a considerable effect on margins. The Company occasionally hedges foreign currency fluctuations; however, it may not be able to fully hedge against the risks of such fluctuations and future exchange rate fluctuations could materially affect our operating results. 13 Table of Contents Our inability to indefinitely reinvest the unremitted earnings of our Irish subsidiary (CEEL) could materially adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Our Irish subsidiary (CEEL) generates earnings that are not subject to United States income taxes so long as they are permanently invested in the Company’s operations outside the United States. Under ASC 740-30 (formerly APB 23), unremitted earnings of CEEL that are no longer permanently invested would become subject to deferred income taxes under United States tax law. We consider the following matters, among others, in evaluating our plans for indefinite reinvestment of CEEL’s earnings: (i) the forecasts, budgets and financial requirements of both Cobra and our other foreign subsidiaries, both for the long term and for the short term; (ii) the tax consequences of any decision to reinvest earnings of CEEL, including any changes in United States tax law relating to the treatment of these unremitted earnings; and (iii) any U.S. and foreign government programs or regulations relating to the repatriation of these unremitted earnings . If CEEL’s unremitted earnings are no longer permanently reinvested, we would need to make provision for deferred income taxes on these unremitted earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, if we initiate actions to repatriate these unremitted earnings and precipitate payments of U.S. income taxes, such payments could materially adversely affect our liquidity. The Company is subject to various governmental regulations that could adversely affect its business. The Company’s operations are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, including those relating to environmental, health and safety matters. The Company could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable laws and could incur substantial costs to comply with existing or new, more stringent regulations. In addition, the use of the Company’s products is also governed by a variety of federal, state and local regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, and changes in such regulations may affect demand for our products. The Company’s business is subject to foreign governmental regulations in the countries in which it operates. From time to time, such governments may consider proposed legislation relating to the regulation of products that we sell. The loss of sales as a result of any such regulations and any similar legislation could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mobile navigation devices and other GPS-enabled products marketed in the United States depend upon a network of satellites maintained by the United States Department of Defense. If these satellites become inoperable or the policies of the United States regarding civilian use of the GPS system change, there would be a material effect on our business. The global positioning system capabilities of our products marketed in the United States function through a network of satellites launched, operated and maintained by the United States Department of Defense. Should the satellites or underlying support systems become inoperable or if the United States government were to choose to degrade the quality of signals available to civilians, GPS products will not function as designed and there would likely be an adverse effect on demand for these products. Additionally, the Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the signals used by these devices and any move to do so could affect the economics of our business. If we are unable to enforce or defend our rights with respect to intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected. The Cobra trademark is a key factor in the marketing of our products. Trademark protection with respect to the Cobra trademark in the United States could be subject to challenge in some product areas. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain trademark protection for the Cobra trademark in each country in which it sells products. If we are unable to use the Cobra trademark with respect to some products or in some markets, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Snooper trademark is a well-known trademark in the United Kingdom and Europe and contributes to the success of PPL. If we are unable to use the Snooper trademark in the United Kingdom or in other areas where PPL is expanding its business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The Company maintains patents for certain of its products and licenses patents for use in certain of its products, particularly radar detection and navigation products. If the patents are challenged, or third parties claim that products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, the Company may incur significant costs to defend its intellectual property rights and may not ultimately be successful. If any of our products are determined to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others, the Company may face substantial damages as well as injunctive relief which could effectively block our ability to market these products in the United States and abroad. Such a judgment could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to record impairment charges for intangible assets in future periods. The carrying value of intangible assets totaled $7.6 million at December 31, 2012. We test for impairment whenever evidence of impairment exists. Impairment charges, which will reduce net income and may have material adverse effect on financial results, will be recorded when warranted by our financial performance or market conditions. Our profitability and financial condition depend on our ability to collect on amounts due from customers. We have significant accounts receivable due from customers. It is not uncommon for a customer to suspend payments of amounts due if the customer experiences operational difficulties. A customer experiencing severe operational difficulties may file for bankruptcy. In these cases, we may be unable to collect on that customer’s outstanding accounts receivable balance. The failure of our customers to pay amounts due could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants and our failure to comply with those restrictions could result in a default, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our secured credit facility is our principal source of available liquidity, other than cash generated by operations. As of December 31, 2012, we had $20.3 million of outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. The Company is a party to a credit facility providing a borrowing capacity of $35.0 million. The Credit Agreement contains customary covenants, including but not limited to financial covenants requiring the Company to maintain a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of 1.10 to 1.00 for the periods set forth in the Credit Agreement and annual capital expenditures cannot exceed $4.0 million. Our credit facility contains a number of significant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things, do the following: Ÿ incur additional indebtedness; Ÿ grant liens on assets; Ÿ merge, consolidate or dispose of our assets; or Ÿ pay dividends to shareholders in excess of $1,250,000 annually. The secured credit facility also requires compliance with certain financial covenants. A breach of the covenants contained in the credit facility could result in any outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility becoming immediately due and payable and in our inability to borrow additional funds under the credit facility, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to secure credit that we may require in the future may negatively impact liquidity. In the current credit environment it is increasingly difficult for businesses to secure financing. If we require additional financing in the future, we may be unable to secure financing or may only be able to secure financing on terms which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Economic conditions may limit the access to credit needed by our customers and suppliers. Our business may be adversely impacted by the availability of credit and consumer spending rates. The recent deterioration of national and global economic conditions and its impact on the credit environment could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The financial stability of our customers or suppliers could also be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for the Company or non-performance by suppliers. In addition, uncertainty about current global economic conditions and the higher costs or unavailability of credit may cause consumers of our products to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values. In some cases our customers or suppliers may be unable to stay in business. This could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and on our business, financial condition and operating results. Sales of our products are subject to seasonal variations and, as a result, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. Historically, our sales in the last half of the year are significantly greater than in the first half reflecting purchases by retailers and distributors for the various promotional activities that begin in the third quarter and culminate with the holiday selling season. Consequently, our results of operations during any particular quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. In addition, if investors inaccurately estimate our results of operations in one or more future quarters and our operating results fall below expectations, our stock price may decline. The price of our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases due to the inherent volatility of operating and competitive factors. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. We have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations with respect to the Company’s common stock. The market price of our common stock is dependent upon many different factors, including: Ÿ press releases or publicity relating to the Company or its competitors or relating to trends in the consumer electronics industry; Ÿ changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; Ÿ changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; Ÿ the operating and stock performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; Ÿ developments affecting us, customers or suppliers; and Ÿ general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent our stockholders from selling their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased it. In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. In the past, some stockholders have brought securities class action lawsuits against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, regardless of whether we are ultimately successful, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 16 Table of Contents The loss of key members of our management and technical team may adversely affect our business. The Company’s success depends on the performance of key management, sales, technical and other critical personnel and our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain management and highly qualified key personnel. Failure to do so could disrupt our operations, adversely affect customer relationships and impair our ability to successfully implement and complete Company initiatives. The loss of the services of any key management or technical personnel could make it more difficult to successfully pursue our business goals. In addition, the Company may not be as successful as its competitors at recruiting, assimilating and retaining key personnel. Our performance depends on favorable relations with our employees and our ability to attract and retain them. Any deterioration of those relations, increase in labor costs or inability to attract and retain employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant deterioration in employee relations, increases in labor costs or shortages of labor at any facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, none of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A slowdown or work stoppage at one facility that lasts for a significant period of time could cause lost sales and increased costs and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet customers’ needs. Business could be adversely affected by a disruption to our Chicago, Illinois and Runcorn, UK facilities. Our Chicago, Illinois facility accounts for 81 percent of the total space utilized by the Company and 92 percent of the space utilized by the Cobra segment. The Runcorn, UK facility accounts for 12 percent of the total space utilized by the Company and 100 percent of the space utilized by the PPL segment. Any disruption to our operations at either of these facilities could adversely impact our performance and impair our ability to deliver products and services to customers on a timely basis. Operations at the Chicago, Illinois and Runcorn, United Kingdom facilities could be disrupted in the event of: Ÿ damage to, or inoperability of, its warehouse; Ÿ a hardware or software error, failure or crash; Ÿ a power or telecommunications failure; or Ÿ fire, flood or other natural disaster. Any such disruption could damage the Company’s reputation and cause customers to cease purchasing products from the Company. The Company could be subject to claims or litigation with respect to these losses. The Company’s property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for all of the losses that we may incur as a result of any such disruption. Damage to or disruptions in the operations of our computer infrastructure and software systems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unavailability of any of our information management systems for any significant period of time could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our ability to deliver products to our customers when needed, collect receivables and manage inventory levels successfully largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Our information management systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breaches, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. Any system failure or security breach could negatively impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these system failures or security breaches. 17 Table of Contents Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be considered effective, which could result in possible regulatory sanctions and a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to furnish annually a report on our internal controls over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain an assessment by our management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting (including the disclosure of any material weakness). The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order for management to evaluate our internal controls, the Company must regularly review and document its internal control processes and procedures and test such controls. Ultimately, the Company could conclude that our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective if, among other things: Ÿ any material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting exist; or Ÿ assessed deficiencies are not remediated. Due to the number of controls to be examined, the complexity of the project, and the subjectivity involved in determining the effectiveness of controls, we cannot be certain that, in the future, all of our controls will be considered effective by management. If, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company is unable to assert that its internal control over financial reporting is effective, the Company could be subject to regulatory sanctions or lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the financial reports, either of which could have an adverse effect on the market price for the Company’s common stock. Acquisitions and strategic investments may divert our resources and management attention; results may fall short of expectations. From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisitions and investments in technologies and product lines that may strategically fit our business objectives. If we are unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, we could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including expected increases in revenues and operating results, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Acquisitions in particular involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration and assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of an acquired business, diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, increased expenses associated with the acquisition, and potential loss of key employees or customers of any acquired business. We cannot assure you that our acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Climate change could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Global warming could result in a significant reduction in demand for certain of the Company’s products, such as radar detectors and Citizens Band radios, as surface transportation is constrained by flooding of coastal areas making roads and highways impassable. The Company’s inability to identify the origin of conflict minerals in its products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Most of the Company’s product lines include tantalum, tungsten, tin and other materials which are considered to be “conflict minerals” under the SEC’s recently-adopted rules. Those rules require public reporting companies to provide disclosure regarding the use of conflict minerals sourced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (“DRC”) and adjoining countries in the manufacture of products. We are currently working with our vendors to determine the sourcing of all product components and will endeavor, to the extent practical, to avoid the utilization of conflict minerals sourced from the DRC and adjoining countries in our products. Until we complete our sourcing review with all of our vendors, we cannot provide complete assurances regarding the country of origin for the components used in our products. If we cannot guarantee that all products exclude conflict minerals sourced from the DRC, certain of our customers may discontinue, or materially reduce, purchases of the Company’s products, which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 