ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, readers should carefully consider the risks described below before deciding to invest in shares of our common stock. These are risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or which we currently deem immaterial, or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows would likely suffer. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our Revenue is Highly Dependent on the Federal Government. Changes in Federal Spending Priorities or Policies Could Adversely Affect Our Results. Certain individual programs account for a significant portion of our U.S. Government business. We cannot provide any assurance that any of these programs will continue at current levels. Our revenue could be adversely affected by significant changes in federal spending priorities or policies such as: • decreases in spending by agencies or programs we support; • changes in funding priorities within the U.S. Government; • replacement of professional services contractors with federal employees (i.e., in-sourcing); • federal government shutdowns due to weather, security threats, lack of budget funding or other reasons; • delays in payment of our invoices due to policy changes or problems with government information systems; • failure of Congress to timely pass sufficient appropriations to fund our programs; • increased allocation of federal contracts to small minority-owned or disadvantaged businesses; • failure of Congress to continue funding of programs that extend over multiple fiscal years; • diversion of funds to pay for international conflicts or reconstruction; or • DoD base realignment and closures. In each of 2012 and 2011, 95% of our total revenues were derived from contracts with the United States government, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor. As a result, we are significantly impacted by trends and changes in federal expenditures and procurement policies. The U.S. government deficit, budgetary challenges, and efforts to curtail expenditures are on-going and reflected in (i) the Budget Control Act of 2011, which increased the debt ceiling and enacted 10-year discretionary spending caps and automatic spending cuts, referred to as sequestration, which will enact $1.2 trillion of spending cuts over 10 years (ii) the Defense Strategic Guidance, issued on January 5, 2012 which outlines fundamental changes in strategy- a force, which is smaller, leaner but agile, flexible and technologically advanced, and (iii) the ongoing inability of the federal government to legislate spending priorities through the timely approval of an annual budget. We have seen and anticipate continued impacts from government budget management initiatives, the specific timing and effects of which may not be predictable, such as: • Reduced professional services spending; • program delays, cuts, and terminations; • fewer new program starts; • intensified price competition for new business and re-competes of current business; and • pressure to reduce dependency on service contractors and set more work aside for small and socially disadvantaged businesses. Most of our federal and state government contracts are renewable on an annual basis, or are subject to the exercise of contractual options. Multi-year contracts generally require funding actions on an annual basis by the U.S. Government, a state legislature, or others on an annual or more frequent basis. As a result, our business could experience material adverse consequences should such funding actions or other approvals not be taken. 19 Table of Contents These events may result in (i) new business contract wins being lower than expected or needed to sustain growth, (ii) ending of or reductions to current programs and contracts, and (iii) lower profit margins as a result of pricing pressure and the need to invest in winning new and retaining existing business, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Failure by Congress to Raise the Federal Debt Ceiling and Approve Budgets on a Timely Basis for the Federal Agencies We Support Could Delay Procurement of Our Services and Solutions and Cause Us to Lose Future Revenues. On an annual basis, Congress must approve budgets that govern spending by the federal agencies that we support. In years when Congress is not able to complete its budget process before the end of the federal government's fiscal year on September 30, Congress typically funds government operations pursuant to a continuing resolution. Occasionally, there has been a government shutdown, as a result of a lack of funding or reaching a federal debt ceiling. A continuing resolution allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous budget cycle. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from clients on work we are already performing and will likely result in new initiatives being delayed or in some cases cancelled. Resulting delays in the collection of accounts receivable or delays or cancellations of existing projects could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additionally, the 2013 fiscal year budgetary sequestration and Congress's inability to raise the federal debt ceiling could adversely impact our revenue and cash flows. Based on recent history, there is also a possibility that Congress will not enact either a budget or a continuing resolution in a timely manner. If this occurs, portions of the federal government, including programs, agencies and projects that we support, may temporarily cease operations, which could have substantial negative effects on our revenues and cash flows. Additionally, the budgetary sequestration has instituted across-the-board budget cuts for the federal government which, if not amended, could adversely impact our revenue. The Company Has Substantial Investments in Recorded Goodwill as a Result of Acquisitions, and Changes in Future Business Conditions Could Cause These Investments to Become Impaired, Requiring Substantial Write-Downs That Would Reduce the Company's Operating Income. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, goodwill accounted for $163.2 million and $211.8 million, respectively. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we review goodwill for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant and sustained decrease in expected reporting unit cash flows or changes in market or other conditions would increase the risk of impairment of recorded goodwill. If goodwill becomes impaired, we would record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which may significantly reduce or eliminate our profits. During 2012, due to a decline in the market price of the Company's stock, the market capitalization of the Company was below the carrying value of equity, which we considered a triggering event and therefore performed an interim impairment test. As a result of the impairment test, we recorded goodwill impairment charges totaling $48.6 million. As a result of the annual impairment test performed as of November 30, 2012, we determined that the carrying amount of the reporting unit did not exceed its fair value and, accordingly, did not record an additional charge for impairment. The fair value of the reporting unit exceeded carrying value by approximately 6%. At December 31, 2012 and December 30, 2011, the price of our common stock was $5.85 per share and $11.34 per share, respectively. We experienced no impairment indicators from November 30, 2012 through year end that would warrant updating its calculation. 20 Table of Contents The determination of valuation for goodwill impairment testing is sensitive to (i) changes in the market price of DRC's stock, (ii) changes in premiums paid in excess of market price for public companies in our industry sector which are acquired, (iii) estimated future cash flows, (iv) weighted average cost of capital, and (v) market multiples. A significant decrease in any of these assumptions would cause a decline in valuation and increase the risk of impairment. Future deterioration in operating performance, peer group multiples, and/or share price could result in impairment of goodwill. As a result, we are unable to assure that goodwill will not be impaired in subsequent periods which could adversely impact our results of operations. Our Contracts and Administrative Processes and Systems Are Subject to Government Regulations, Audits and Cost Adjustments By the Federal Government, Which Could Reduce Our Revenue, Disrupt Our Business, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Federal government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency ("DCAA"), the Defense Contract Management Agency, various inspectors general, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Government Accountability Office, and the DoJ, routinely audit and investigate government contracts, and government contractors' administrative processes and systems. These agencies review our performance on contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations, and standards. They also review our compliance with government regulations and policies and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, accounting, estimating, compensation, and management information processes and systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed must be refunded and certain penalties may be imposed. DCAA audits for costs incurred on work performed after December 31, 2007 have not yet been completed. In addition, DCAA audits for costs incurred by our recent acquisitions for certain periods prior to acquisition have not yet been finalized. An unfavorable outcome of an audit by the DCAA or other government agency may adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, if any of the administrative processes and systems are found not to comply with requirements, we may be subjected to increased government scrutiny and approval that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform contracts or collect our revenue in a timely manner. Such possibilities include that: • we would be required to reimburse the government for amounts previously received; • our pricing on contracts may be prospectively reduced; • payments to us may be significantly delayed or withheld; and • our ability to compete may be impaired by negative audit reports or by the failure to receive audit reports. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the federal government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these results could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We do not know the outcome of pending or future audits. Many of Our Federal Government Customers Execute Their Procurement Budgets Through Multiple Award Contracts Under Which We Are Required to Compete for Post-Award Orders, Potentially Limiting Our Ability to Win New Contracts and Increase Revenue. Changes in the federal procurement process have caused many U.S. Government customers to increasingly purchase goods and services through multiple award ID/IQ contracts and other multiple award and/or government-wide acquisition contract vehicles. 21 Table of Contents These contract vehicles require that we make sustained post-award efforts to obtain task orders under the relevant contract. There can be no assurance that we will obtain revenues or otherwise sell successfully under these contract vehicles. Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment could harm our operating results. Our inability to win re-competitions of the multiple award contracts we currently hold could have a material adverse effect on future revenues, operating results and cash flows. Also our inability to win newly competed multiple award schedule contracts, which we do not currently hold, may impede our ability to grow. The DHS EAGLE contract is currently under re-competition. We have been one of the leading providers of services under the management services function category of EAGLE. We believe we are well positioned to win the successor contract. However, the outcome from the competition remains uncertain and there can be no assurance that a successor contract will be awarded to DRC. Our Estimated Backlog May Not Result in Revenues or Cash Flows. As of December 31, 2012, we had backlog of $731.7 million, of which $568.1 million was unfunded. Backlog is our estimate of the remaining future revenues from existing signed contracts, assuming the exercise of all options under such contracts and including executed task orders under ID/IQ contracts. There can be no assurance that backlog will result in actual revenue or that any contract included in backlog will ultimately be profitable. There is a higher degree of risk with respect to unfunded backlog. The actual receipt of revenue is subject to numerous contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. Our estimates are based on our experience with similar contracts, but we cannot assure you that all or any of these estimated contract revenues will ultimately be recognized as actual revenues or cash flows. We May Lose Revenue and Our Cash Flow and Profitability Could Be Negatively Affected if Expenditures Are Incurred Prior to Final Receipt of a Contract or Contract Funding Modification. We provide professional services and sometimes procure materials on behalf of our government clients under various contract arrangements. From time to time, in order to ensure that we satisfy our clients' delivery requirements and schedules, we may elect to initiate procurements or provide services in advance of receiving formal contractual authorization from the government client or a prime contractor. The frequency of these circumstances and related risk are likely to increase with the current sequestration approach to establishing funding levels for federal agencies. If our government client or prime contractor requirements should change or the government directs the anticipated procurement to a contractor other than us, or if the materials become obsolete or require modification before we are under contract for the procurement, our investment might be at risk. If we do not receive the required funding, our cost of services incurred in excess of contractual funding may not be recoverable. This could reduce anticipated revenue or result in a loss, negatively affecting our cash flow and profitability. Loss of Our Position as a Qualified Contractor Under One or More General Services Administration Schedules, Would Impair Our Operating Results and Our Ability to Keep Our Existing Business or Win New Business. If we were to lose any of our GSA schedules or our prime contractor position on any of our contracts, we could lose revenues, and our ability to win new business and our operating results could decline as a result. Our Financing Requirements May Increase and We Could Have Limited Access to Capital Markets. While we believe that our current resources and access to capital markets are adequate to support operations over the near term and foreseeable future, we cannot assure you that these circumstances will remain unchanged. Our need for capital is dependent on operating results and may be greater than expected. Our ability to maintain our current sources of debt financing depends on our ability to remain in compliance with covenants contained in our financing agreements, including, among other requirements, maintaining consolidated total leverage, consolidated senior leverage, and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratios. 22 Table of Contents If changes in capital markets restrict the availability of funds or increase the cost of funds, we may be required to modify, delay or abandon some of our planned expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Restrictions and Covenants Contained in Our Credit Facilities May Impact Our Business and Operations. Our credit facilities contain financial and operating covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain or satisfy specified financial ratios, limit our ability to incur indebtedness, make investments, incur liens, or make capital expenditures, and require us to comply with a number of other affirmative and negative operating covenants. Failure to meet these financial and operating covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, our incurrence of debt, or changes in general economic conditions. Failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under our credit facilities, which would allow our lenders to accelerate payment of all unpaid principal and all accrued and unpaid interest under the facilities. We May Not Make or Complete Future Mergers, Acquisitions or Strategic Alliances or Investments Which May Adversely Affect Our Growth. Additionally, Acquired Operations May Perform at Levels Below Our Financial Projections or We May Be Unable to Successfully Integrate the Acquired Operations. We intend to continue to expand our operations through mergers, acquisitions or strategic alliances with businesses that will complement our existing business. However, we may not be able to find attractive candidates, or enter into acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us, or successfully integrate the operations of companies that we acquire. In addition, we may compete with other companies for these acquisition candidates, which could make an acquisition more expensive for us. Furthermore, our credit facilities contain certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on investments, liens, and capital expenditures, which may make it more difficult to finance an acquisition that might otherwise be in our best interests. If we are able to successfully identify and complete an acquisition or similar transaction, it could involve a number of risks, including, among others: • the difficulty of assimilating the acquired operations and personnel; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of resources and management time; • the potential failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; • the difficulty of integrating systems, operations, and cultures; and • the potential impairment of relationships with customers as a result of changes in management or otherwise arising out of such transactions. We cannot assure that any acquisition will be made, that we will be able to obtain financing needed to fund any acquisitions and, if any acquisitions are so made, that the acquired business will be successfully integrated into our operations or that the acquired business will perform as expected. In addition, if we were to proceed with one or more significant strategic alliances, acquisitions, or investments in which the consideration consists of cash, a substantial portion of our available cash could be used to consummate the strategic alliances, acquisitions, or investments. The financial impact of acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results. Security Breaches in Sensitive Government Systems Could Harm Our Business. Many of the systems we develop, install and maintain involve managing and protecting information involved in intelligence, national security and other sensitive or classified government functions. A security breach in one of these systems could cause serious harm to our business, damage our reputation and prevent us from being eligible for further work on sensitive or classified systems for federal government clients. We could incur losses from a security breach that could exceed the policy limits under our errors and omissions and product liability insurance. Damage to our reputation, limitations on our eligibility for additional work or other losses we incur resulting from a security breach in one of our systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Table of Contents Our Failure to Adequately Protect Our Confidential Information and Proprietary Rights May Harm Our Competitive Position. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property. Although our employees are subject to confidentiality obligations, this protection may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our confidential information. In addition, we may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property in order to take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. If we are unable to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our copyrights, trademarks or other proprietary information, our competitive position could be harmed and our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. Our Business Could Be Negatively Impacted By Security Threats, Including Cyber Security Threats, and Other Disruptions. As a federal government contractor, security risks regarding our information include (i) theft of proprietary or competitive information, (ii) disabling of our administrative systems and disruption to our business, (iii) security breaches of government systems, for which we provide support services, and (iv) loss of business as a result of harm to the Company's reputation due to a security breach. Over the past year, branches of the federal government and contractors that work for the federal government have been particularly prone to overseas hacking attempts. Defensive measures taken by us may be inadequate to prevent a breach in security, which could have a material adverse impact on operating results and financial condition. Inability to Hire or the Loss of Personnel Could Limit Our Growth. We are dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical personnel. Many of our technical personnel may have specific knowledge and experience related to various government customer operations and these individuals would be difficult to replace in a timely fashion. In addition, qualified technical personnel are in high demand worldwide and are likely to remain a limited resource. The loss of services of personnel could impair our ability to perform required services under some of our contracts, to retain this business after the expiration of the existing contract, or to win new business in the event that we lost the services of individuals who have been identified in a given proposal as key personnel in the proposal. Any of these situations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our Failure to Obtain and Maintain Necessary Security Clearances May Limit Our Ability to Perform Classified Work for Government Clients, Which Could Harm Our Business. Some government contracts require us to maintain facility security clearances, and require some of our employees to maintain individual security clearances. If our employees lose or are unable to obtain security clearances on a timely basis, or we lose a facility clearance, the government client can terminate the contract or decide not to renew the contract upon its expiration. As a result, to the extent that we cannot obtain the required security clearances for our employees working on a particular contract, or we fail to obtain them on a timely basis or fail to maintain these security clearances, we may not derive the revenue anticipated from the contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 24 Table of Contents We May Be Liable for Systems and Service Failures. We create, implement and maintain IT and technical services solutions that are often critical to our customers' operations, including those of federal, state and local governments. We may in the future experience some systems and service failures, schedule or delivery delays and other problems in connection with our work. If our solutions, services, products or other applications have significant defects or errors, are subject to delivery delays or fail to meet our customers' expectations, we may: • lose revenues due to adverse customer reaction; • be required to provide additional services to a customer at no charge or a discount; • receive negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • suffer claims for substantial damages against us. In addition to any costs resulting from contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may result in increased costs or loss of revenues if they result in customers postponing subsequently scheduled work, canceling contracts, or failing to renew contracts. While many of our contracts with the federal government limit our liability for damages that may arise from negligence in rendering services to our customers, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages if we are sued. Even if unsuccessful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs that may be a distraction to our management and/or may harm our reputation. If Our Employees Engage in Misconduct or Other Improper Activities, Our Business Could Be Harmed. We are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or other misconduct could occur. Misconduct by employees could include intentional failures to comply with federal government procurement regulations, engaging in unauthorized activities, or falsifying time records. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of our clients' sensitive or classified information, which could result in regulatory sanctions against us and serious harm to our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims. Certain components sold by DRC are generally designed to operate as important elements of complex systems or products. Defects in our products could cause our customer's product or systems to fail or perform below expectations. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability for such defects or failures, we cannot assure you that our attempts to limit our liability will be successful. As such, we may be subject to claims for alleged performance issues related to our products. Such claims, if made, could damage our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY We Must Bear the Risk of Various Pricing Structures Associated With Government Contracts. We derive most of our revenue from contracts and subcontracts with the U.S. Government. A significant portion of our federal and state government contracts are undertaken on a time and materials basis, with fixed hourly rates that are intended to cover salaries, benefits, other indirect costs of operating the business and profit. Our time and material contracts represented 35% and 32% of total revenue in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The pricing of these contracts is based upon estimates of future salaries and costs and assumptions as to the aggregate volume of business that we will perform in a given business division or other relevant unit. 25 Table of Contents We undertake various government projects on a fixed-price basis. Our revenues earned under fixed-price contracts as a percentage of total revenues represented 45% and 48% in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Under a fixed price contract, the government pays an agreed upon price for our services or products, and we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profits or cause us to incur a loss. Significant cost overruns can occur if we fail to: • adequately estimate the resources required to complete a project; • properly determine the scope of an engagement; or • complete our contractual obligation in a manner consistent with the project plan. For certain fixed-price contracts, we must estimate the costs necessary to complete the defined statement of work and recognize revenue or losses in accordance with such estimates. Actual costs may vary materially from the estimates made from time to time, necessitating adjustments to reported revenue and net income. Underestimates of the costs associated with a project could adversely affect our overall profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. While we endeavor to maintain and improve contract profitability, we cannot be certain that any of our existing or future fixed-price projects will be profitable. Government Contracts Contain Provisions Giving Government Customers a Variety of Rights that are Unfavorable to Us, Including the Ability to Terminate a Contract at Any Time for Convenience. Government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies not typically found in commercial contracts. These provisions may allow the government to, among other things: • terminate existing contracts for convenience, as well as for default; • reduce orders under, or otherwise modify, contracts or subcontracts; • cancel multi-year contracts and related orders if funds for contract performance for any subsequent year become unavailable; • decline to exercise an option to renew a multi-year contract; • suspend or debar us from doing business with the federal government or with a governmental agency; • prohibit future procurement awards with a particular agency as a result of a finding of an organizational conflict of interest based upon prior related work performed for the agency that would give a contractor an unfair advantage over competing contractors; • subject the award of contracts to protest by competitors, which may require the contracting federal agency or department to suspend our performance pending the outcome of the protest; and • claim rights in products and systems produced by us. If the government terminates a contract for convenience, contracts typically provide that we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. State government contracts, more often than federal contracts, require service providers to incur substantial cost in advance of billing. As of December 31, 2012, our unbilled costs on state government contracts were $6.8 million. In the event of a termination for convenience, the amount recovered must be fully documented and could eventually become the subject of negotiations. As a result there is a risk that these amounts may not be fully recoverable. On March 1, 2013, we received an indication of intent from a customer to reduce the scope of our work on a contract, on which we had $4.0 million in unbilled receivables at December 31, 2012 for costs incurred in advance of billings. Recovery of these costs is expected through (i) future milestone payments of $2.2 million for work completed or expected to be completed and delivered, and (ii) the remaining balance under the termination for convenience provision of the contract for work we had performed prior to the reduction in scope. 26 Table of Contents Due to current budgetary pressures there may be an increased likelihood that funding may be terminated or reduced in one or more programs in which we participate, which may result in a greater number of contractual terminations for convenience. If one of our government customers were to unexpectedly terminate, cancel or decline to exercise an option to renew one or more of our significant contracts or programs, our revenues and operating results could be materially harmed. If the government terminates a contract for default, we may not recover even those amounts and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. Our Contracts and Subcontracts with Government Agencies Are Subject to a Competitive Bidding Process. We May Be Unsuccessful in Re-Competition for Work We Are Currently Performing. We operate in an increasingly competitive market, and routinely we must compete to re-win work we are currently performing. In 2012, our win rate on re-competitions was 85%, as compared with 98% in 2011. On re-competitions there exists a reasonable possibility that we will not be the winner, in which event future revenues, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Federal Government In-Sourcing Could Result in Loss of Business Opportunities and Personnel. The federal government has periodically taken action to reduce the percentage of contracted services in favor of more federal employees through an initiative called "in-sourcing." In-sourcing could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Specifically, as a result of in-sourcing federal procurements for services could be fewer and smaller in the future. In addition, work DRC currently performs could be in-sourced by the federal government and, as a result, the Company's revenues could be reduced. Moreover, DRC employees working on contracts could also be hired by the government. This loss of DRC employees would necessitate the need to retain new employees. Accordingly, the effect of in-sourcing, or the continuation of in-sourcing at a faster than expected rate, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations over time. Our Business May Be Harmed By Failure of Prime Contractors to Perform Their Obligations Where We Serve as a Subcontractor. Approximately 17% and 21% of our revenue in 2012 and 2011, respectively, was derived from contracts or task orders for which we served as a subcontractor. In such circumstances, we generally bear the risk that the prime contractor will meet its performance obligations to the U.S. Government under the prime contract and that the prime contractor will have the financial capability to pay us amounts due under the subcontract. The inability of a prime contractor to perform or make required payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our Business May Be Adversely Affected by Contract Protests. Governmental awards of contracts are subject to regulations and procedures that permit formal bidding procedures and protests by losing bidders. Such protests may result in significant delays in the commencement of expected contracts, the reversal of a previous award decision, suspensions of contracts pending completion of the protest process, or the reopening of the competitive bidding process. In addition, to protect our competitive position, we may protest the contract awards of our competitor, which may divert management's attention from other matters or cause us to incur additional expenses. A significant number of contract protests could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents Failure to Maintain Strong Relationships with Other Contractors Could Result in a Decline in Our Revenues. In 2012 and 2011, we derived 17% and 21% of our revenues, respectively, from contracts in which we acted as a subcontractor to other contractors or to joint ventures that we and other contractors formed to bid on and execute particular contracts or programs. We expect to continue to depend on relationships with other contractors for a portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be harmed if other contractors eliminate or reduce their subcontracts or joint venture relationships with us because they choose to establish relationships with our competitors; they choose to directly offer services that compete with our business; the government terminates or reduces these other contractors' programs; or the government does not award them new contracts. If We Fail to Comply with Complex Procurement Laws and Regulations, We Could Lose Business and Be Subject to Various Penalties or Sanctions. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts. These laws and regulations affect how we conduct business with our federal government contracts. In complying with these laws and regulations, we may incur additional costs. Non-compliance may also allow for the assignment of additional fines and penalties, including contractual damages. Among the more significant laws and regulations affecting our business are the following: • the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which comprehensively regulates the formation, administration, and performance of federal government contracts; • the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiations; • the Cost Accounting Standards and Cost Principles, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based federal government contracts; • laws, regulations, and executive orders restricting the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products, services, and technical data; and • U.S export controls, which apply when we engage in international work. Failure to comply with these control regimes can lead to severe penalties, both civil and criminal, and can include debarment from contracting with the U.S. Government. Our contracting agency customers periodically review our performance under and compliance with the terms of our federal government contracts. If a government review or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties or administrative sanctions, including: • termination of contracts; • forfeiture of profits; • cost associated with triggering of price reduction clauses; • suspension of payments; • fines; and • suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. Additionally, the civil False Claims Act provides for potentially substantial civil penalties where, for example, a contractor presents a false or fraudulent claim to the government for payment or approval. Actions under the civil False Claims Act may be brought by the government or by other persons on behalf of the government, who may then share a portion of any recovery. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we may also suffer harm to our reputation, which could impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts. If we are subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions or suffer harm to our reputation, our current business, future prospects, financial condition, or operating results could be materially harmed. 28 Table of Contents The government may also revise its procurement practices or adopt new contracting rules and regulations, including cost accounting standards, at any time. Any new contracting methods could be costly to satisfy, be administratively difficult for us to implement, and impair our ability to obtain new contracts. Our Markets are Highly Competitive, and Many of the Companies We Compete Against Have Substantially Greater Resources. The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors may compete more effectively than we can because they are larger, better financed and better known companies than we are. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and client preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our revenue may decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address client needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. There is also a significant industry trend towards consolidation, which may result in the emergence of companies who are better able to compete against us. The results of these competitive pressures could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. We Operate in Highly Competitive Markets and May Have Difficulties Entering New Markets. The government contracting business is subject to intense competition from numerous companies. The principal competitive factors are prior performance, previous experience, technical competence and price. In our efforts to enter new markets and attract new customers, we generally face significant competition from other companies that have prior experience with such potential customers. As a result, we may not achieve the level of success that we expect in our efforts to enter such new markets. A Preference for Minority-Owned, Small and Small Disadvantaged Businesses Could Impact Our Ability to be a Prime Contractor on Certain Governmental Procurements. As a result of the SBA set-aside program, the federal government may decide to restrict certain procurements only to bidders that qualify as minority-owned, small, or small disadvantaged businesses. As a result, we would not be eligible to perform as a prime contractor on those programs and in general would be restricted to no more than 49% of the work as a subcontractor on those programs. An increase in the amount of procurements under the SBA set-aside program may impact our ability to bid on new procurements as a prime contractor or restrict our ability to recompete on incumbent work that is placed in the set-aside program. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Fluctuations in our Operating Results and General Market Conditions May Affect the Price of Our Common Stock. Our revenue and earnings may fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on a number of factors, including: • the number, size and timing of client projects commenced and completed during a quarter; • contract wins and losses; • changes to existing contracts made by our customers; • bid and proposal efforts undertaken; • progress on fixed-price projects during a given quarter; • employee productivity and hiring, attrition, and utilization rates; • rapid changes in demand from our precision manufacturing customers; • accuracy of estimates of resources required to complete ongoing projects; • the trend in interest rates; and • general economic conditions. 29 Table of Contents The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance, including: • decreases in our earnings and revenue or quarterly operating results; • changes in estimates by analysts; • repurchases of our common stock under a share repurchase program; • market conditions in the industry; • announcements and new developments by competitors; and • regulatory reviews. If there is a decrease in the price of our common stock, we may be required to make a larger than expected contribution to our legacy pension plan fund to enable the pension plan fund to meet its obligations to plan participants. Future deterioration in our share price could also result in impairment of goodwill. In addition, lower stock price could impair our ability to obtain financing to carry out our strategic plans. Each of these consequences, in turn, could have an adverse impact on our cash flow and liquidity. Provisions of Our Articles of Organization and By-Laws May Deter Potential Bids to Acquire the Company, and the Market Price of Our Common Stock May Suffer as a Result. Our charter documents contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: · division of our board of directors into three classes, making it more difficult for shareholders to change our board composition; · a requirement that all shareholders must sign a document for action to be taken by written consent of the shareholders; · a requirement that candidates for our board of directors own not less than 2,000 shares of the Company's common stock, and have or be eligible to have DoD personnel security clearances at the level of our facility security clearance; · advance notice by-laws that require shareholders to follow specified procedures to nominate board candidates or otherwise make shareholder proposals; and · a restriction on certain business combinations with interested shareholders. In addition, we are subject to (i) Chapter 110C of the Massachusetts General Laws, which requires the person commencing a takeover bid to file certain information with the Secretary of the Commonwealth and the target company and provides that a bidder who fails to disclose its intent to gain control over a target corporation prior to acquiring 5% of the target company's stock is precluded from making any takeover bid for a period of one year after crossing the 5% threshold, (ii) Chapter 110D of the Massachusetts General Laws, which regulates control share acquisitions, and (iii) Chapter 110F of the Massachusetts General Laws, which prohibits a publicly-held Massachusetts corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met. These provisions may make it more difficult for third parties to acquire us or a significant portion of our stock, which may in turn affect our stock price. Certain Shares of Our Common Stock May Be Entitled to Rescission and We May Continue to be Contingently Liable for Rescission or Damages in an Indeterminate Amount. Issuances of our securities require registration under federal and state securities laws or an exemption therefrom, and certain holders of common stock issued by us may be entitled to rescind their purchases. In March 2013, we completed an offer to rescind the sales of approximately 86,500 of the approximately 148,000 shares of our common stock that were issued without registration or an exemption from registration. While we believe that the rescission offer should bar future claims for rescission or limit our damages in respect of such a claim, there can be no guarantee that the rescission offer will have the effect of barring claims relating to our issuance of shares of common stock that were not properly registered. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any written comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding our periodic or current reports that (1) were issued not less than 180 days before the end of our 2012 fiscal year, (2) remain unresolved, and (3) we believe are material. 