Item 1A. Risk Factors This section identifies certain risks and uncertainties that the Company faces. If the Company is unable to appropriately address these and other circumstances that could have a negative effect on its business, the Company’s business may suffer. Negative events may decrease revenues, increase costs, negatively affect financial results and decrease financial strength, thereby, causing the price of the Company’s stock to decline. Business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected by the inability to enhance existing products or introduce new products to meet consumer preferences, including timely introductions as new consumer technologies are introduced. Management believes that the Company’s future success depends upon its ability to predict and respond in a timely and effective manner to changes in the markets it serves. Consequently, the Company strives to introduce distinctive new products that anticipate changing consumer demands and capitalize upon emerging technologies. If the Company fails to introduce or suffers delays in introducing new products, misinterprets consumer preferences or fails to respond to changes in the marketplace, consumer demand for our products could decrease and our brand image could suffer. In addition, competitors may introduce new designs or technologies, undermining our products’ desirability. If any of the foregoing occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially harmed. 9 Table of Contents Failure to maintain relationships with key customers and failure by key customers to purchase expected quantities of our products could have an adverse effect on our business. Cobra products are distributed through a network of nearly 300 retailers and distributors in the United States and 33 distributors in Europe and elsewhere around the world. PPL products are sold through a network of 1,400 retailers and distributors in Europe. The Company’s success is dependent upon the ability to retain an existing base of customers to sell the Company’s products. Loss of customers means loss of product placement and, consequently, a reduction in sales volume. Certain of the Company’s customers account for a large portion of the Company’s net sales. For instance, in 2008, sales to Wal-Mart were 11.2 percent of net sales. We anticipate that Wal-Mart will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales in the foreseeable future. Customers are not obligated by any firm, long-term purchase commitments for our products. As a result, customers may cancel purchase commitments or reduce or delay orders on relatively short notice. The loss of sales to or a material delay in orders from, our key customers could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient amounts of high quality products on a timely basis, customer needs may not be met and reduced sales may result. Substantially all products are manufactured by third party manufacturers located outside of the United States, primarily in China, Hong Kong and South Korea. The ability to meet customers’ needs depends on the ability to maintain an uninterrupted supply of products from multiple third party manufacturers. While the Company purchases most products from multiple third party manufacturers, business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected if any of the principal third party manufacturers experience production problems, lack of capacity or transportation disruptions. In addition, certain of our third party manufacturers serve other customers, a number of which have greater production requirements than we do. As a result, third party manufacturers could determine to prioritize production capacity for other customers or reduce or eliminate services for us on short notice. The extent to which changes in third party manufacturers would have an adverse effect on the Company’s business depends upon the timing of the changes, the product or products that the third party manufacturers produce and the volume of production. Dependence on third party manufacturers for products subjects the Company to the risk of supplier failure and customer dissatisfaction with the quality or performance of such products. Quality or performance failures by third party manufacturers or changes in their financial or business condition which affect their production could disrupt the ability to supply quality products to customers and thereby materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of components and materials may disrupt the supply of products. The inability of third party manufacturers to obtain sufficient quantities of components and other materials used in our products could disrupt the supply of products or increase costs. Materials and components for some products may not be available in sufficient quantities to satisfy sales requirements as a result of supply shortages. Supply interruptions relating to products could result in lost sales opportunities which may harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. Reliance on retailers and third party distributors to sell our products. Cobra products are sold through a network of nearly 300 retailers and distributors in the United States and 33 distributors in Europe and elsewhere around the world. PPL products are sold through a network of 1,400 retailers and distributors in Europe. Certain distributors market competitors’ products. The loss, termination or failure of one or more of the distributors to effectively promote our products could affect the Company’s ability 10 Table of Contents to bring its products to market and could reduce sales. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors and retailers could also affect the level of their purchases of our products which could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operation. The Company competes with a large number of companies in the consumer electronics business, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially affected. The Company encounters strong competition from a number of companies in the consumer electronics business. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Competition is based principally on the introduction of new products and pricing. Competitors may have greater resources and operating and financial flexibility to introduce new products and withstand changes in pricing. To compete for sales, the Company may have to lower its prices or increase its investment in development of new technologies, which could reduce gross margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that the Company will continue to compete effectively against existing and new competitors that may enter our markets. The current downturn in global economic and market conditions could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The consumer electronics products sold by the Company are generally discretionary purchases for consumers. Consumer spending is affected by many factors, including consumer confidence levels, interest rates, tax rates, employment levels and prospects and other general economic conditions. The current economic slowdown and recession in the United States and worldwide economies, is likely to decrease the demand for products and adversely affect sales. Since economic and market conditions vary within the Company’s business segments, the Company’s future performance by business segment will accordingly vary. In addition, deteriorating or weak economic conditions, or the forecast or perception of the same, may trigger changes in inventory levels at our retail customers, including a reduction in product offerings and out of stock situations, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Also, the cash surrender value of life insurance policies owned by the Company for the purpose of recovering the costs of deferred compensation programs for several current and former officers of the Company is affected by the market value of the underlying investments. Adverse market conditions may result in a decline in the cash surrender value of these life insurance policies, which would result in a non-cash expense that reduces our net income. International markets expose us to political and economic risks in foreign countries, as well as to risks relating to currency values and import/export policies. Substantially all of our products are manufactured to our specifications and engineering designs by suppliers located primarily in China, Hong Kong and South Korea. In addition, international sales, primarily in Canada and Europe, represent a significant portion of our total sales. International activities pose risks not faced by companies that limit themselves to the United States market. These risks include: • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • exchange controls; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; • issues affecting health and safety in specific countries or regions; • tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, other trade protection measures in the United States or foreign countries and import or export licensing requirements; • increased shipping costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation; 11 Table of Contents • difficulties in enforcing remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws; • potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and • different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements. Revenues and purchases are predominately in U.S. dollars; however, a portion of revenue is collectible in other currencies, principally euros and British pounds sterling. The Company historically has negotiated substantially all of its purchases in U.S. dollars and, in the case of PPL, frequently uses forward contracts to purchase dollars at a fixed exchange rate to the British pounds sterling. The Company considers opportunities to make purchases in other currencies, such as euros, to the extent that doing so would be advantageous in light of currency fluctuations involving the U.S. dollar and other currencies. As sales expand in international markets, customers may increasingly make payments in currencies other than U.S. dollars, which could have a considerable affect on margins. The Company hedges foreign currency fluctuations; however, it may not be able to fully hedge against the risks of such fluctuations and future exchange rate fluctuations could materially affect our operating results. The Company is subject to various governmental regulations that could adversely affect the business. The Company’s operations are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, including those relating to environmental, health and safety matters. The Company could become subject to liabilities as a result of a failure to comply with applicable laws and could incur substantial costs to comply with existing or new, more stringent regulations. In addition, the use of the Company’s products is also governed by a variety of federal, state and local regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Communications Commission, and changes in such regulations may affect demand for our products. The Company is subject to governmental regulation in the countries in which it operates. The Company’s business is subject to governmental regulations in the countries in which it operates. From time to time, such governments may consider proposed legislation relating to the regulation of products that we or our subsidiaries sell. The loss of sales as a result of any such regulations and any similar legislation could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mobile navigation devices and other GPS-enabled products depend upon a network of satellites maintained by the United States Department of Defense. If these satellites become inoperable or the policies of the United States regarding civilian use of the GPS system change, there would be a material effect on our business. The global positioning system capabilities of our products function through a network of satellites launched, operated and maintained by the United States Department of Defense. Should the satellites or underlying support systems become inoperable or if the United States government were to choose to degrade the quality of signals available to civilians, GPS products will not function as designed and there would likely be an adverse effect on demand for these products. Additionally, the Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the signals used by these devices and any move to do so could affect the economies of our business. If we are unable to enforce or defend its rights with respect to intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected. The Cobra trademark is a key factor in the marketing of our products. Trademark protection with respect to the Cobra trademark in the United States could be subject to challenge in some product areas. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain trademark protection for the Cobra trademark in each country in which it sells products. If we are unable to use the Cobra trademark with respect to some products or in some markets, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents The Snooper trademark is a well-known trademark in the United Kingdom and contributes to the success of PPL. If we are unable to use the Snooper trademark in the United Kingdom or in other areas where PPL is expanding its business, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company licenses patents for use in certain of our products, particularly navigation products. If the patents are challenged, or third parties claim that products infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others, the Company may incur significant costs to defend its intellectual property rights and may not ultimately be successful. If any of our products are determined to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others, the Company may face substantial damages as well as injunctive relief which could effectively block our ability to market these products in the United States and abroad. Such a judgment could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to record impairment charges for intangible assets in future periods. The carrying value of intangible assets totaled $11.2 million at December 31, 2008. We test for impairment whenever evidence of impairment exists. Impairment charges, which will reduce net income and may have material adverse effect on financial results, will be recorded when warranted by our financial performance or market conditions. Our profitability and financial condition depends on our ability to collect on amounts due from customers. We have significant accounts receivable due from customers. It is not uncommon for a customer to suspend payments of amounts due if the customer experiences operational difficulties. A customer experiencing severe operational difficulties may file for bankruptcy. In these cases, we may be unable to collect on that customer’s outstanding accounts receivable balance. The failure of our customers to pay amounts due could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants and our failure to comply with those restrictions could result in a default, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our secured credit facility is our principal source of available liquidity, other than cash generated by operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had $17.7 million of outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility. In February 2008, we entered into a new secured credit facility which replaced our previous credit facility. Our new credit facility contains a number of significant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things, do the following: • incur additional indebtedness; • grant liens on assets; or • merge, consolidate or dispose of our assets. The secured credit facility also requires compliance with certain financial covenants. A breach of the covenants contained in the credit facility could result in any outstanding indebtedness under the credit facility becoming immediately due and payable and in our inability to borrow additional funds under the credit facility, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to secure credit that we may require in the future may negatively impact liquidity. In the current credit environment it is increasingly difficult for businesses to secure financing. If we require additional financing in the future, we may be unable to secure financing or may only be able to secure financing on terms which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Economic conditions may limit the access to credit needed by our customers and suppliers. Our business may be adversely impacted by the availability of credit and consumer spending rates. Recent deterioration of national and global economic conditions and its impact on the credit environment could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. The financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for the Company or non-performance by suppliers. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions and the higher costs or unavailability of credit may cause consumers of our products to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values. In some cases our customers or suppliers may be unable to stay in business. This could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and on our business, financial condition and operating results. Sales of our products are subject to seasonal variations and, as a result, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance. Because mass retail accounts make up an increasing portion of the business, sales orders in the fourth quarter frequently are stronger than orders in first, second and third quarters. Consequently, you should not rely on our results of operations during any particular quarter as an indication of our results for a full year or any other quarter. In addition, if investors inaccurately estimate our results of operations in one or more future quarters and our operating results fall below expectations, our stock price may decline. The price of our common stock may be subject to sudden decreases due to the inherent volatility of operating and competitive factors. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors. We have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations with respect to the Company’s common stock. The market price of our common stock is dependent upon, but not limited to: • press releases or publicity relating to the Company or its competitors or relating to trends in the consumer electronics industry; • changes in the legal or regulatory environment affecting our business; • changes in expectations as to future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • the operating and stock performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • developments affecting us, customers or suppliers; and • general domestic or international economic, market and political conditions. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance, and could prevent our stockholders from selling their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased it. In addition, the stock markets from time to time experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. In the past, some stockholders have brought securities class action lawsuits against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation, regardless of whether we are ultimately successful, could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. The loss of key members of our management and technical team may adversely affect our business. The Company’s success depends on the performance of key management, sales, technical and other critical personnel and our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain management and highly qualified key 14 Table of Contents personnel. Failure to do so could disrupt our operations, adversely affect customer relationships and impair the ability to successfully implement and complete Company initiatives. The loss of any services of any key management or technical personnel could make it more difficult to successfully pursue business goals. In addition, the Company may not be as successful as its competitors at recruiting, assimilating and retaining key personnel. Our performance depends on favorable relations with our employees and our ability to attract and retain them. Any deterioration of those relations, increase in labor costs or inability to attract and retain employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant deterioration in employee relations, increases in labor costs or shortages of labor at any facility could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, none of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A slowdown or work stoppage at one facility that lasts for a significant period of time could cause lost sales and increased costs and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to meet customers’ needs. Business could be adversely affected by a disruption to our Chicago, Illinois and Runcorn, UK facilities. Our Chicago, Illinois facility accounts for 80 percent of the total space utilized by the Company or 91 percent of the space utilized by the Cobra segment. The Runcorn, UK facility accounts for 12 percent of the total space or 100 percent of the space utilized by the PPL segment. Therefore, any disruption to our operations at either of these facilities could adversely impact our performance and impair our ability to deliver products and services to customers on a timely basis. Operations at the Chicago, Illinois and Runcorn, United Kingdom facilities could be disrupted in the event of: • damage to, or inoperability of, its warehouse; • a hardware or software error, failure or crash; • a power or telecommunications failure; or • fire, flood or other natural disaster. Any disruption could damage the Company’s reputation and cause customers to cease purchasing products from the Company. The Company could be subject to claims or litigation with respect to these losses. The Company’s property and business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for all of the losses that we may incur. Damage to or disruptions in the operations of our computer infrastructure and software systems could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unavailability of any of our information management systems for any significant period of time could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In particular, our ability to deliver products to our customers when needed, collect receivables and manage inventory levels successfully largely depends on the efficient operation of our computer hardware and software systems. Our information management systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breaches, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded business management systems are defective or are not installed properly. Any system failure or security breach could negatively impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these system failures or security breaches. 15 Table of Contents Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be considered effective, which could result in possible regulatory sanctions and a decline in our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to furnish annually a report on our internal controls over financial reporting. The internal control report must contain an assessment by our management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting (including the disclosure of any material weakness). Effective for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, the independent auditors will be required to attest to and report on internal controls. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order for management to evaluate our internal controls, the Company must regularly review and document its internal control processes and procedures and test such controls. Ultimately, the Company or its independent auditors could conclude that our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective if, among others things: • any material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting exist; or • assessed deficiencies are not remediated. Due to the number of controls to be examined, the complexity of the project, and the subjectivity involved in determining the effectiveness of controls, we cannot be certain that, in the future, all of our controls will be considered effective by management or, if considered effective by our management, that our auditors will agree with such assessment. If, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company or its auditors are unable to assert that its internal control over financial reporting is effective, the Company could be subject to regulatory sanctions or lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of the financial reports, either of which could have an adverse effect on the market price for the Company’s common stock. The Company may be unable to successfully consolidate and integrate the operations of acquired businesses, such as PPL, which may adversely affect the Company’s stock price, operating results and financial condition. The Company must consolidate and integrate the operations of acquired businesses with our business. In 2006, the Company completed the acquisition of PPL, a consumer electronics company based in the United Kingdom. The success of any acquisition, including the acquisition of PPL, will depend on our ability to integrate assets acquired and personnel in these transactions. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult and expensive than we predicted. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with any acquisitions, including the acquisition of PPL, and any future acquisitions that may consummated, could result in the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could negatively affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom the Company has business dealings. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 