Item 1a. Risk Factors In your evaluation of our company and our businesses, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents we file with the SEC. The following factors describe the risks and uncertainties that we consider significant to the operation of our business, but should not be considered a complete listing of all potential risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our operating results, financial position or liquidity. Additionally, our business is subject to the same general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as the overall U.S. and global economic conditions, international conflicts, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest and exchange rates or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. Risks Related To Our Business We are not in compliance with our financial covenants under our loan agreements with our lenders. Our lenders may exercise one or more of their available remedies, including the right to require the immediate repayment of all outstanding indebtedness. Our outstanding indebtedness is as follows: September 30, 2013 September 30, 2012 Santander Bank, N.A. $ 6,819,000 $ 8,984,000 Massachusetts Capital Resource Co. 3,000,000 3,000,000 Total Debt $ 9,819,000 $ 11,984,000 As of September 30, 2013 and September 30, 2012, we were in default of certain covenants under our loan agreement with Santander Bank, N.A. (“Santander”) and our note agreement with Massachusetts Capital Resource Company (“MCRC”), which is subordinated to the Santander Bank loan. This indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets and is guaranteed by our subsidiaries. Our debt agreements include financial covenants which require us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios during the term of the agreements. Failure to comply with the financial covenants is an event of default under the debt agreements. In an event of default, each of the lenders has the right to accelerate repayment of all outstanding indebtedness, impose a higher default interest rate and (in the case of Santander Bank) take any and all action, at its sole option, to collect monies owed to it, including to enforce and foreclose on its security interest on all of our assets. While we continue to be current with all principal and interest payments with Santander, we have not paid approximately $0.3 million in interest owed to MCRC. Additionally, as of both September 30, 2012 and 2013 and as of the date hereof, we were in violation of certain financial covenants contained in each of the loan agreements that require us to maintain certain ratios of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to fixed charges and to total/senior debt. As of the date hereof, neither of our lenders has accelerated our payment obligations. Subsequent to September 30, 2013, in addition to our regular monthly interest and principal payments, we repaid an additional $1.25 million to Santander from cash received in connection with the sale of our lead paint analyzer business. We are continuing to evaluate potential alternatives that would resolve our current default status including additional sales transactions, negotiation of a forbearance agreement or a new borrowing arrangement with another lender. However, we cannot provide any assurance that the alternatives will be successful or that our obligations under our debt agreements will not be accelerated in the future or that our lenders will not exercise other remedies for default. 7 If our lenders were to accelerate our debt payments, our assets may not be sufficient to fully repay the debt and we may not be able to obtain capital from other sources at favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is required, this funding may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or without potentially very substantial dilution to our stockholders. If we do not raise the necessary funds, we may need to curtail or cease our operations, sell certain assets and/or file for bankruptcy, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The audit report contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2013 contains an explanatory paragraph to the effect that there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As described in more detail above, we are in default with our financial covenants under our loan agreements as of September 30, 2013. Accordingly, our lenders have the ability to require immediate payment of all indebtedness under our loan agreements. While the lenders have not exercised this right, their ability to require immediate payment has caused all of our outstanding indebtedness to be accelerated to current on our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm has expressed substantial doubt that we can fund our ongoing operations during the next twelve months. This “going concern” statement may discourage some third parties from contracting with us and some investors from purchasing our stock or providing alternative capital financing, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our loan agreements impose restrictions on our ability to take certain corporate actions and raise additional capital. Our loan agreements contain numerous customary restrictions that limit our ability to undertake certain activities without the express prior written approval of our lenders. These include, but are not limited to, restricting our ability to: - incur additional indebtedness; - pay or declare dividends; - enter into a business substantially different from existing operations; - issue or authorize any additional or new equity that will result in a change of control; and - take any corporate action outside the ordinary course of the business, including without limitation, the sale of assets or other strategic divestitures, without the prior written approval of our lender. These restrictions could significantly hamper our ability to raise additional capital. Our ability to receive the necessary approvals is largely dependent upon our relationship with our lenders and our financial performance, and no assurances can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals in the future. Our inability to raise additional capital could lead to working capital deficits that could have a material adverse effect on our operations in future periods. We may not be able to generate sufficient positive cash flow in the future to fund our operations. In addition to our bank financing, we are dependent upon cash flow from our businesses to fund our operations. It is our expectation that we can continue to improve our cash flows; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so. If we are unable to fund our operations from future cash flows together with our available bank financing, we will need to seek additional debt and/or equity financing, which may not be available on attractive terms, if at all, in which case there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our Xcede joint venture requires further funding to support the development of its technology. On or about October 1, 2013, Dynasil Biomedical formed Xcede, a joint venture with Mayo Clinic, to spin out and separately fund the development of the tissue sealant technology. Xcede has initiated financing efforts and has received funding from internal sources and outside investors. We expect Xcede will continue to require periodic outside investor funding in order to pursue clinical trials and further development of its tissue sealant technology. However, there can be no assurance that Xcede will be able to obtain future financing as needed or on terms which are attractive, in which case it might be required to close its operations and liquidate its assets in which case our investment would likely not be recovered. 8 The Company relies on its Contract Research segment for approximately half of its revenues. A decline in or temporary suspension of U.S. Government spending, changes in federal budgetary priorities, the timing of contract awards or a restructuring of the SBIR/STTR programs may adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. Our Contract Research business unit, RMD, is among the largest small business participants in U.S. government-funded research, performing research and development activities for government agencies including Department of Energy, Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, National Institutes of Health, and NASA. Historically RMD has conducted its government research contracts through the SBIR (Small Business Innovation Research Program) and the STTR (Small Business Technology Transfer Program). Though RMD has augmented its SBIR contracts with larger competitively bid government contracts in recent years, a reduction in or elimination of the SBIR or the STTR programs could result in our inability to win contracts, as we may not have the resources to compete effectively against much larger, better-funded companies. Further, a significant decline in overall U.S. Government spending, including in the areas of national security, intelligence and homeland security, a significant shift in its spending priorities, the substantial reduction or elimination of particular defense-related programs or significant delays in contract or task order awards for large programs could adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. While the October 2013 government shutdown did not have a significant impact on the Company, a future government shutdown could result in the suspension of work on contracts in progress or in payment delays which would adversely affect our future revenues and cash flow. The Company relies on a small number of key customers for a substantial portion of its revenues. Ten customers accounted for approximately 51.8% of the Company’s revenues in 2013 and the largest four customers, all agencies of the U.S. Government, accounted for 36.5% of revenues. Although we have had business relationships with these customers for many years, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to win contracts with these agencies in the future. Accordingly our performance could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more of these key customers. We may not realize as revenues the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects. As of September 30, 2013, our total backlog for Contract Research was approximately $40 million. Backlog consists of existing contracts, approved by agencies in favor of RMD. Note that some contracts are multi-year contracts and are subject to annual funding renewals. Due to the U.S. Government’s ability to not exercise contract options or to terminate, modify or curtail our programs or contracts and the rights of our non-government customers to cancel contracts and purchase orders in certain circumstances, we may realize less than expected or in some cases never realize revenues from some of the contracts that are included in our backlog. Our backlog contains management’s estimate of amounts expected to be realized on contract work that may never be realized as revenues. If we fail to realize as revenues amounts included in our backlog, our expected future revenues, growth prospects and profitability could be adversely affected. The U.S. Government may terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, we may be unable to achieve or sustain revenue growth and may suffer a decline in revenues. Many of the U.S. Government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor may extend for several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. These programs are normally funded on an annual basis. Under our contracts, the U.S. Government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decisions by the U.S. Government not to exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues, revenue growth and profitability. If a government customer terminates a contract for default, we may be exposed to liability, including for excess costs incurred by the customer in procuring undelivered services and products from another source. Depending on the nature and value of the contract, a performance issue or termination for default could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated and could harm our reputation. 9 Our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected by our failure to accurately estimate and manage costs, time and resources. We generate revenues under various types of contracts, which include cost reimbursement, Time & Materials (T&M), Fixed Price-Level of Effort and Firm Fixed Price contracts (FFP). Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive and award fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost reimbursement and T&M contracts generally have lower profitability than FFP contracts. Our operating results in any period may also be affected, positively or negatively, by variable purchasing patterns by our customers of our more profitable proprietary products. Our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during the performance of our work could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or in losses. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors, natural disasters or other force majeure events, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable. Our long-term success will depend upon our ability to successfully develop and commercialize new products and enhance our existing products, which is highly uncertain and subjects us to costly regulatory compliance requirements and delays. One of our business strategies is based on successful commercialization of the technology primarily developed in our RMD business. We are devoting significant resources to our continuing research and development programs which are designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve our existing products. The successful development of our products and product enhancements is subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: - unanticipated delays in development or the approval or clearance process by the applicable regulatory authorities; - access to capital; - budget overruns; - other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of new products. The medical devices developed in our Instruments segment are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. FDA and comparable agencies outside the U.S. To varying degrees, each of these agencies requires us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our medical devices. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain marketing clearance for our new products or enhancements or modifications to existing products. If such approval is obtained, it may: - take a significant amount of time, - require the expenditure of substantial resources, - involve stringent clinical and pre-clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance, - involve modifications, repairs, or replacements of our products, and - result in limitations on the proposed uses of our products. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development, introduction, and enhancement our efforts may not be completed on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. Our failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget, if at all, could harm our business and prospects. 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 36% of our total assets and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. Non-amortizing intangible assets, including goodwill, are tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of such intangible assets may not be recoverable could include a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of. In the quarter ended March 31, 2013, the Company recorded an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets totaling approximately $6.8 million associated with its Instruments segment, which experienced delays with regulatory approvals (FDA and HUD) associated with product refreshes. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would have a negative impact on our profitability and financial results. Our failure to establish a strong intellectual property position and enforce our intellectual property rights against others would enable competitors to develop similar or alternative technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our technologies. Our policy is to protect our intellectual property by, among other methods, filing U.S. patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. The U.S. Congress recently passed the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the America Invents Act, which was signed into law in September 2011. The America Invents Act reforms United States patent law in part by changing the standard for patent approval from a “first to invent” standard to a “first to file” standard and developing a post-grant review system. This new legislation changes United States patent law in a way that may weaken our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for future inventions in the United States. Our patent portfolio relating to our proprietary technology is comprised of issued patents and pending patent applications which, in either case, we own directly or for which we are the exclusive or semi-exclusive licensee. Some of these patents and patent applications are foreign counterparts of U.S. patents or patent applications. We may not be able to maintain and enforce existing patents or obtain further patents for our products, processes and technologies. Even if we are able to maintain our existing patents or obtain further patents, these patents may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, nor does it provide the patent holder with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving and the extent of future protection is highly uncertain, so there can be no assurance that the patent rights that we have or may obtain will be valuable. Others have filed patent applications that are similar in scope to ours, and in the future are likely to file patent applications that are similar or identical in scope to ours or those of our licensors. We cannot predict whether any of our competitors’ pending patent applications will result in the issuance of valid patents. Moreover, we cannot assure investors that any such patent applications will not have priority or dominate over our patents or patent applications. The invalidation of key patents owned by or licensed to us or non-approval of pending patent applications could increase competition, and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies, duplicate any of our technologies, or, if patents are issued to us, design around the patented technologies developed by us. Dynasil Biomedical is a pre-clinical stage business with no approved products, which makes it difficult to assess this business’s future viability. Dynasil Biomedical is a preclinical-stage biomedical business with a limited operating history. On or about, October 1, 2013, Dynasil Biomedical formed Xcede, a joint venture with Mayo Clinic, to spin out and separately fund the development of the tissue sealant technology. We have not yet demonstrated an ability to successfully overcome many of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving fields, particularly in the biomedical area. For example, to execute our business plan, we will need to successfully: - execute product candidate development activities; - oversee the product development and fundraising activities of its joint venture, Xcede; - develop and maintain any new strategic relationships we elect to enter into; - manage our spending as costs and expenses increase due to preclinical development, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and commercialization. - obtain required regulatory approvals for the development and commercialization of our product candidates; 11 - maintain, leverage and expand our intellectual property portfolio; - build and maintain robust sales, distribution and marketing capabilities, either on our own or in collaboration with strategic partners; - gain market acceptance for our products; If we are unsuccessful in accomplishing these objectives, we may not be able to develop product candidates, raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. We compete in the optics industry and may be unable to compete effectively. Our Optics companies’ business is highly competitive and we compete with larger companies that have greater name recognition, financial resources and larger technical staffs, such as Newport Corporation and JDSU. We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that are able to concentrate their resources on particular areas. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address these changing needs and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers’ needs. Accordingly, we anticipate that larger or new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge which may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our failure to compete effectively in this market could have a material adverse effect on our results or operation and financial condition. Our Contract Research business faces aggressive competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects. RMD’s competitors include other small high technology companies performing SBIR R&D, large firms such as Raytheon which performs related R&D, and to some extent, universities and national laboratories. The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing technology and the needs of our customers change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our success depends on our ability to develop services and products that address these changing needs and to provide people and technology needed to deliver these services and products. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel. In addition, our competitors may consolidate or establish teaming or other relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customers’ needs. Accordingly, we anticipate that larger or new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge which may adversely affect our ability to compete. Our internal controls over financial reporting were not effective as of September 30, 2012 or 2013. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and of our internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2012 and concluded that, as of that date, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as a result of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. While we have undertaken remediation efforts as discussed in Item 9A of this Form 10-K during fiscal year 2013, the Company concluded that adequate improvement has not yet been made to remediate the previously identified material weaknesses and has determined as of September 30, 2013 that, collectively, the control deficiencies that existed in the prior year still rise to the level of a material weakness described in management’s report in Item 9A. Until these issues are corrected and the changes made are operational for a sufficient period of time to demonstrate their effectiveness, our ability to report financial results or other information required to be disclosed on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. In addition, remedying this matter may require additional management time and resources and cause the Company to incur additional costs. 12 Our ability to use our federal and state tax credits and our state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) could be substantially limited or eliminated as we may not generate sufficient future taxable income. As of September 30, 2013, we had approximately $1.5 million in federal and state tax credits and approximately $4.2 million of state NOLs available to offset future taxable income, which expire in varying amounts beginning in 2031, if unused. We had $182,000 of foreign NOLs which can be carried forward indefinitely. We may not generate taxable income in time to use these tax credits or the NOLs prior to their expiration, and the Internal Revenue Service may not agree with the amount or timing of prior losses, thereby limiting the value of our NOLs. Furthermore, our ability to use our NOLs is subject to an annual limitation due to ownership changes that may have occurred or that could occur in the future, as determined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as well as similar state regulations. Depending on the actual amount of any limitation on our ability to use our tax credits and NOLs, our future taxable income could be subject to federal and/or state income tax, creating federal and/or state income tax liabilities. Our business is subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. Government, which, if resolved unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects. U.S. Government agencies, including the DCAA (Defense Contract Audit Agency), DCMA (Defense Contract Management Agency) and others, routinely audit and review a contractor’s performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, and compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. They also review the adequacy of the contractor’s compliance with government standards for its accounting and management internal control systems, including: control environment and overall accounting system, estimating system, purchasing system, property system and earned value management system. Both contractors and the U.S. Government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny. A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews could result in decremented billing rates to our U.S. Government customers until the control deficiencies are corrected and our corrections are accepted by the auditing agency. Government audits and reviews may conclude that our practices are not consistent with applicable laws and regulations and result in adjustments to contract costs and mandatory customer refunds. Such adjustments can be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. Our receipt of adverse audit findings or the failure to obtain an “approved” determination of our various accounting and management internal control systems, including our changes to indirect cost and direct labor estimating systems, from the responsible U.S. Government agency could significantly and adversely affect our business, including our ability to bid on new contracts and our competitive position in the bidding process. A determination of non-compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could also result in the U.S. Government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including withholding of payments, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. Government. We may suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, which would impair our ability to win new contract awards or receive contract renewals. Due to significant delays at the DCAA in auditing small firms performing SBIR research, our indirect cost audits by the DCAA have not been completed for fiscal 2010 and subsequent fiscal years. Although we have recorded contract revenues subsequent to fiscal 2010 based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected. 13 Our failure to comply with a variety of complex procurement rules and regulations could result in our being liable for penalties, including termination of our U.S. Government contracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. Government contracts and suspension or debarment from U.S. Government contracting. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include: · the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts; · the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations; · the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials; · the Civil False Claims Act, which provides for substantial civil penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. Government for payment or approval; and · the U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts. Our failure to comply with any of these rules or regulations could result in loss of business or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We depend on our teaming arrangements and relationships with other contractors and subcontractors. If we are not able to maintain these relationships, or if these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or our customers, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We rely on our teaming relationships with other prime contractors and subcontractors in order to submit bids for large procurements or other opportunities where we believe the combination of services and products provided by us and the other companies will help us to win and perform the contract. Our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contract relationships with us, or if the U.S. Government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Companies that do not have access to U.S. Government contracts may perform services as our subcontractor and that exposure could enhance such companies’ prospect of securing a future position as a prime U.S. Government contractor which could increase competition for future contracts and impair our ability to perform on contracts. We may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of a subcontractor’s personnel or the subcontractor’s failure to comply with applicable law. Current uncertain economic conditions (including risks associated with possible future government shutdowns) heighten the risk of financial stress of our subcontractors, which could adversely impact their ability to meet their contractual requirements to us. If any of our subcontractors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in our termination for default. A termination for default could eliminate a revenue source, expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders, especially if the customer is an agency of the U.S. Government. 14 Our failure to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including our management team, would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy. Portions of our business involve the development of tailored solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Our continued success depends on our ability to recruit and retain highly trained and skilled engineering, technical and professional personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and competitors aggressively recruit key employees. Particularly in highly specialized areas, it has become more difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which may affect our growth in the current fiscal year and in future years. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract and retain these employees. Any failure to do so could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely meet our customers’ needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results. In addition to attracting and retaining qualified engineering, technical and professional personnel, we believe that our success will also depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and its ability to retain existing business and generate new business. Our senior management team is important to our business because personal reputations and individual business relationships are a critical element of retaining and obtaining customer contracts in our industry, particularly with agencies performing classified operations. Our inability to hire and retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives could cause us to lose customers or new business opportunities. Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Misconduct, should it occur, could include fraud or other improper activities such as falsifying time or other records and violations of laws, including the Anti-Kickback Act. Other examples could include the failure to comply with our policies and procedures or with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities, and any other applicable laws or regulations. Intentional or unintentional violation of the Export Control Act or ITAR could result in sever fines which could adversely affect our profitability. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us, loss of current and future contracts and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct, and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could damage our reputation and subject us to fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business and our future results. Quality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share. Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our goods and services. If we fail to meet these standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. Aside from specific customer standards, our success depends generally on our ability to manufacture to exact tolerances precision-engineered components, subassemblies, and finished devices from multiple materials. If our components fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation as a manufacturer of high-quality components will be harmed, our competitive advantage could be damaged, and we could lose customers and market share. Product liability claims could adversely impact our financial condition and our earnings and impair our reputation. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, and marketing of medical devices and detection instruments. Component failures, manufacturing defects, design flaws, or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information with respect to our products could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient. The occurrence of such a problem could result in product liability claims or a recall of, or safety alert relating to, one or more of our products. We have purchased, product liability insurance policies, but there is no assurance that the insurance coverage would apply to the circumstances in any liability claim. Nor is there assurance that the policy limits would be sufficient to cover all costs and liabilities. Product liability claims or product recalls in the future, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability to attract and retain customers for our products. 15 From time to time we may make acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. One component of our growth strategy is to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions. These transactions require significant investment of time and resources and may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities. Even if successful, these transactions could reduce earnings for a number of reasons, including the amortization of intangible assets, impairment charges, acquired operations that are not yet profitable or the payment of additional consideration under earn-out arrangements if an acquisition performs better than expected. Acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many other risks that could adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial results, including: - we may not be able to identify, compete effectively for or complete suitable acquisitions and investments at prices we consider attractive; - we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions and investments on our business and we may not realize anticipated synergies or acquisitions may not result in improved operating performance; - we may encounter performance problems with acquired technologies, capabilities and products, particularly with respect to those that are still in development when acquired; - we may have trouble retaining key employees and customers of an acquired business or otherwise integrating such businesses, such as incompatible accounting, information management, or other control systems, which could result in unforeseen difficulties; - we may assume material liabilities that were not identified as part of our due diligence or for which we are unable to receive a purchase price adjustment or reimbursement through indemnification; - we may assume legal or regulatory risks, particularly with respect to smaller businesses that have immature business processes and compliance programs; - acquired entities or joint ventures may not operate profitably, which could adversely affect our operating income or operating margins and we may be unable to recover investments in any such acquisitions; - acquisitions, investments and joint ventures may require us to spend a significant amount of cash or to issue capital stock, resulting in dilution of ownership; and - we may not be able to effectively influence the operations of our joint ventures or we may be exposed to certain liabilities if our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations. If our acquisitions fail, perform poorly or their value is otherwise impaired for any reason, including contractions in credit markets and global economic conditions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we periodically divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification, guarantee or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction, which would adversely affect our financial results. Our financial results may vary significantly from period-to-period. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section and other matters described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents we file with the SEC. 16 Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the U.S. and U.K. We are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our consolidated earnings and financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. We face risks associated with our international business. In 2013 and 2012, we generated approximately 18.1% and 17.5% of our sales outside the U.S. Our international business operations may be subject to additional and different risks than our U.S. business. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitable growth in international markets is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many countries. As a result of our expansion outside the U.S., we are subject to certain inherent risks, including political and economic uncertainty, inflation rates, exchange rates, trade protection measures, local labor conditions and laws, restrictions on foreign investments and repatriation of earnings, and weak intellectual property protection. If we are unable to manage these risks it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Increases in prices and declines in the availability of raw materials could negatively impact our financial results. Our financial results are significantly affected by the cost of raw materials and energy. Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet the planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts, multiple sources, and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. An inability to obtain critical raw materials would adversely impact our ability to produce products. Increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to mitigate these higher costs in a timely manner. Our business and operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements and any violation of these requirements could harm our business. We are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign legal requirements on matters as diverse as data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anticorruption, import/export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation, environmental and anti-competition. We are also focused on expanding our business in certain identified growth areas, such as homeland security and biomedical technologies, which are highly regulated and may expose us to increased compliance risk. Compliance with diverse and changing legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Moreover, we use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in our business and generate wastes that are regulated as hazardous wastes under United States federal, and Massachusetts, California, Washington and Wisconsin state, environmental and atomic energy regulatory laws and similar laws in each jurisdiction in which our research and manufacturing facilities are located. Our use of these substances and materials is subject to stringent, and periodically changing, regulation that can impose costly compliance obligations on us and have the potential to adversely affect our manufacturing activities. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be held liable for any damages that result, in addition to incurring clean-up costs and liabilities, which can be substantial. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities resulting in delays and increased costs. 17 Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims or losses. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. However, not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage we purchase or that are reasonably obtainable in the market may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. If any of our third-party insurers fail, cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from significant product and other liability claims or losses. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, our business and prospects may be harmed. Regardless of the adequacy of our liability insurance coverage, any significant claim may have an adverse effect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and services and reduced revenues. Our business and financial results could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats. As a U.S. Government contractor operating in multiple regulated industries and geographies, we handle sensitive information. Therefore, we are continuously exposed to cyber and other security threats, including computer viruses, attacks by hackers or physical break-ins. Any electronic or physical break-in or other security breach or compromise may jeopardize security of information stored or transmitted through our information technology systems and networks. This could lead to disruptions in mission critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to protect against, detect and mitigate these threats, attempts by others to gain unauthorized access to our information technology systems are becoming more sophisticated. These attempts include covertly introducing malware to our computers and networks and impersonating authorized users, among others, and may be perpetrated by well-funded organized crime or state sponsored efforts. We seek to detect and investigate all security incidents and to prevent their occurrence or recurrence. We continue to improve our threat protection, detection and mitigation policies, procedures and controls. In addition, we work with other companies in the industry and government participants on increased awareness and enhanced protections against cyber security threats. However, because of the evolving nature of these security threats, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and controls have or will detect or prevent any of these threats and we cannot predict the full impact of any such incident. We may experience similar security threats to the information technology systems that we develop, install or maintain under customer contracts. Although we work cooperatively with our customers and other business partners to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber and other security threats, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. Any remedial costs or other liabilities related to cyber or other security threats may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these security threats could adversely affect our reputation, ability to work on sensitive U.S. Government contracts, business operations and financial results. Business disruptions caused by natural disasters and other crises could adversely affect our profitability and our overall financial position. We have operations located in regions of the United States and the U.K. that may be exposed to damaging storms and other natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, flooding or earthquakes. Our business could also be disrupted by pandemics and other national or international crises. Although preventative measures may help mitigate the damage from such occurrences, the damage and disruption to our business resulting from any of these events may be significant. If our insurance and other risk mitigation mechanisms are not sufficient to recover all costs, including loss of revenues from sales to customers, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Performance failures and disruptions by our subcontractors due to these types of events may also adversely affect our ability to perform our obligations on a prime contract, which could reduce our profitability due to damages or other costs that may not be fully recoverable from the subcontractor or the customer and could result in a termination of the prime contract and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts. 18 Risks Relating To Dynasil’s Stock The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively unknown company with a small and thinly traded public float and lack of profits, which could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to the shares of larger, more established companies that have large public floats, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than the shares of such larger, more established companies for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common stock is, compared to the shares of such larger, more established companies, sporadically and thinly traded. As a consequence of this limited liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common stock is sold on the market without commensurate demand. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a larger, more established company that has a large public float. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common stock will be at any time, including as to whether our common stock will sustain its current market price, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common stock for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. If we do not regain compliance with certain listing requirements by March 24, 2014, we will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market, which could impair the liquidity of our stock and our availability to access the capital markets. The NASDAQ Stock Market requires that companies remain in compliance with the Global Market Continued Listing Requirements for their common stock as set forth in Marketplace Rule 5450(a) and at least one of the Standards in Rule 5450(b). On March 26, 2013, the Company received notice from Nasdaq that, because the closing bid price for the Company’s common stock had fallen below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days, the Company was no longer in compliance with the minimum bid listing requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. The Company was provided an initial 180 period to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement. That period ended on September 23, 2013 without the Company achieving compliance. As a result of its continued noncompliance, the Company requested a transfer to the NASDAQ Capital Market (which also has a $1.00 minimum bid requirement) and, in connection therewith received a second 180 day period to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement. We can make no assurance that we will be able to regain compliance with the minimum bid requirement by the March 24, 2014 deadline or continue to comply with any of the other listing requirements and, consequently, whether or not we will be able to remain listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market. If we are de-listed by Nasdaq the liquidity of our common stock could be impaired and we could have more difficulty raising capital, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends on your common stock for the foreseeable future and the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares. 19 