Item 1A. Risk Factors. As with any business, the Company’s business and operations involve risks and uncertainties. In addition to the other discussions in, and incorporated by reference in, this report, particularly those in “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Operations & Financial Condition” incorporated by reference from pages 15 through 22 of the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders and “Forward Looking Statements” on page 22 of the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, the following factors should be considered: · In some product lines, most of our sales are made to a relatively small number of customers; if we lose any of those customers, sales and operating results could decline. In some of our product lines, our sales are concentrated to a small number of customers. While we do not currently have any single customer that we consider to be significant to us as a whole, the loss of a significant customer of a product line could substantially affect the sales and profitability of that line, which may cause us to re-evaluate that line. Those developments could affect our results. In addition, the financial condition of our customers may adversely affect their ability to buy from us or to pay for products that they have already purchased. · Many of our products are used in items for human consumption and contact. We may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact our profitability and corporate image. We sell flavors, fragrances and colors which are used in foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and other items for human consumption or contact. These products involve risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering and other adulteration. We may be subject to liability if the consumption or use of our flavors, fragrances and colors, or products which incorporate ingredients we manufacture, cause injury, illness or death. In addition, we or our customers may need to recall products in the event of contamination or damage. A significant product defect, product liability judgment or product recall may negatively impact our profitability for a period of time depending on publicity, product availability, scope, competitive reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness, injury or death could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate image. · Consolidation has resulted in customers with increased buying power, which can affect our profitability. Many of our customers have consolidated in recent years and we expect the combination trend to continue. These consolidations have often produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of resisting price increases. If the larger size or greater buying power of those customers results in additional negotiating strength, the prices we are able to charge could be negatively affected and our profitability could decline. · Intense competition may result in reduced sales and profitability. The industries and markets in which we operate are highly competitive. That competition can reduce both our sales and the prices at which we are able to sell our products, which can in turn negatively affect our profitability. · Our sales and profitability are affected by changing consumer preferences and changing technologies. Although we do not generally make or sell proprietary consumer products, many of our products are sold to companies which develop and market consumer products. Sales of these flavors, fragrances, colors and inks depend in part upon our customers’ ability to identify and meet consumer preferences and their sales and marketing efforts, all of which are beyond our control. Our sales could also be affected by changing technologies that could impact consumer demand for products that contain our flavors, fragrances, colors and inks. Therefore, we depend upon our customers’ ability to create markets for the consumer products which incorporate many of the flavors, fragrances, colors and inks which we manufacture. 8 Table of Contents · If we do not maintain an efficient cost structure, our profitability could decrease. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain an efficient cost structure. We regularly initiate cost-reduction measures that could impact our manufacturing, sales, operations and information systems functions. If we do not continue to manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies, or we do not successfully implement related strategies, our competitiveness and our profits could decrease. · Commodity and energy price increases or material shortages may reduce our profits. We use many different commodities as raw ingredients. We also use petroleum-based raw materials and other raw materials whose production is energy intensive. In addition, various energy sources are used in our production and distribution processes. Commodity and energy prices are subject to significant volatility caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental programs. Commodity and energy price increases, including any increases that may result from regulation of greenhouse gases, will raise both our raw material costs and operating costs. We may not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset these increased costs. Increasing our prices also may reduce sales volume and related profitability. In addition, we obtain some of the raw materials that we use from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers, and problems with those suppliers could affect the availability of those materials. Even if there are multiple suppliers of a particular raw material, there are occasional shortages. An unavailability or shortage of a raw material could negatively affect our operations using that raw material and thus our results. · There are many laws and regulations applicable to our industries. Compliance with those requirements is costly to us and can affect our operations. Failure to comply could also be costly and disruptive. Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, quality and safety of food, drugs, cosmetics and other consumer products, inkjet inks and industrial colors. These laws and regulations are administered in the United States by the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and other federal and state governmental agencies. We are subject to similar governmental regulation and oversight abroad. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and affect our operations. Also, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, fines and recalls of our products. Our customers, particularly those in the pharmaceutical industry, are also subject to laws and regulations which may impose costs on or create risk for us. · Environmental compliance may be costly to us. Our operations are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent laws and regulations which pertain to the discharge of materials into the environment (including greenhouse gases) and the handling and disposition of wastes. These rules operate or will operate at both the federal and state levels in the United States, and there are analogous laws at many of our overseas locations. Environmental regulations, and the potential failure to comply with them, can have serious consequences, including the costs of compliance and defense, interference with our operations or the ability to obtain required permits, civil and administrative penalties and negative publicity. · Operating in foreign countries exposes us to increased risks, including foreign currency risks. We operate and sell our products in many foreign countries. The international aspects of our business subject us to risks that could materially impact our operating results, including: foreign exchange rate fluctuations; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign personnel in diverse cultures; transportation delays or interruptions; and the effects of international political developments and political and economic instability. In addition, changes in policies by the United States or foreign governments could negatively affect our operating results due to changes in duties, tariffs, trade regulations, taxes or limitations on currency or fund transfers. 9 Table of Contents · We depend on certain key personnel, and the loss or retirement of these persons may harm our business. Our success depends in large part on the continued service and availability of our key management and technical personnel, and on our ability to attract and retain qualified new personnel. The competition for these individuals can be significant, and the loss of key employees could harm our business. In addition, as some of these persons approach retirement age, we need to provide for smooth transitions, and our operations and results may be negatively affected if we are not able to do so. · We may not successfully complete and integrate future acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have acquired many companies and operations in the past and may resume growth by acquisition in the future. Our future growth through acquisitions could involve significant risks that may have a material adverse effect on us. We may also be at risk for factors associated with acquisitions that the Company has made in the past. Acquired companies may also have significant latent liabilities which may not be discovered before an acquisition or fully reflected in the price we pay. We may also need to finance future acquisitions, and the terms of any financing, and the need to ultimately repay or refinance any indebtedness, may have negative effects on us. Acquisitions also could have a dilutive effect on our financial results. Acquisitions also generally result in goodwill, which would need to be written off against earnings in the future if it becomes impaired. · Our ability to successfully maintain and upgrade our information technology systems may affect our competitiveness and our profits could decrease. Our success depends in part on our ability to maintain a current information technology platform for our business to operate. We routinely review and upgrade our information technology systems in order to better manage and report the sales, manufacturing and other operations of our business. If we do not continue to maintain our information technology platform and successfully implement upgrades to the system, our competitiveness and profits could decrease. · World events and natural disasters are beyond our control and could affect our results. World events, such as the conflict in Afghanistan, the situations in North Korea, Iran, Syria and elsewhere in the Middle East and the financial stresses in Europe, can adversely affect national, international and local economies. Economies can also be affected by natural disasters or by epidemics. Such events and conditions, as well as the current impairment of financial markets, high unemployment and constrained consumer spending, have adversely affected and could continue to affect our revenues and profitability, particularly if they occur in locations in which we or our customers have significant operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 