ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Reference is hereby made to the Section entitled “CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” with respect to certain qualifications regarding the following information. The risks described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations and adversely affect the price of our shares. 17 Table of Contents RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS. We Have Experienced Recurring Losses. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003, and 2002, we recorded net losses of $60,540,851, $12,335,314, $4,757,000, $7,322,000, and $5,328,000 respectively, and have an accumulated deficit of $177,742,357 as at December 31, 2006. Impairments of oil and gas properties, ventures and other assets in 2006 included writedowns of $38,400,000 in our carrying value of the Ninotsminda Field. The Company may never achieve or maintain profitability. The Company will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be able to generate these revenues, and it may never achieve profitability. Our Ability To Pursue Our Activities Is Dependent On Our Ability To Generate Cash Flows. Our ability to continue to pursue our principal activities of acquiring interests in and developing oil and gas fields is dependent upon generating funds from internal sources, external sources and, ultimately, maintaining sufficient positive cash flows from operating activities. • Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which contemplates continuation of the Company as a going concern. The Company incurred net losses from continuing operations to common stockholders of approximately $61,214,000, $12,938,000 and $6,262,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively. These net losses included non-cash charges related to depreciation and depletion, impairments, loan interest, amortization of debt discount and stock-based compensation of approximately $48,653,000, $6,928,000 and $5,104,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 respectively. • In the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company’s revenues from its Georgian operations did not cover the costs of its operations. At December 31, 2006 the Company had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents available for general corporate use or for use in the Georgian operations of approximately $14,780,000. In 2006 the Company experienced a net cash outflow from operations of approximately $17,883,000 in Georgia. In addition, the Company has a planned capital expenditure budget in 2007 of approximately $5,200,000 in Georgia. In the event that the exploration and development wells currently undergoing or waiting to undergo production testing in Georgia fail to produce enough commercially available quantities of oil and or gas, the Company may not have sufficient working capital and may have to delay or suspend its capital expenditure plans and possibly make cutbacks in its operations. There are no assurances the Company could raise additional sources of equity financing and because of the covenants contained in the Senior Secured Notes (see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements) the Company is restricted from incurring additional debt obligations unless it receives consent from at least 51% of the noteholders, which cannot be assured. • The Company believes that if it is able to successfully complete the Manavi 12 well in the second quarter such that a significant quantity of oil flows are produced, that it will be able to raise additional debt and or equity funds in order to continue operations and to properly develop the Manavi field and continue working on the Norio and Ninotisminda fields. • In October 2006, CanArgo Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, converted all of its outstanding loans due from Tethys into 69,999,900 shares of Tethys share capital. In February 2007 we announced that TPL had completed a private placement with a limited group of private investors raising gross proceeds of approximately $17.35 million, by issuing in total approximately 34.7 million new ordinary shares in TPL, these representing approximately 33% of the issued and outstanding share capital of TPL, and with us retaining our 70,000,000 shares in TPL, these representing the remaining 67%. Under the terms of previous subordinated debt issuances by the Company (see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements), CanArgo Energy Corporation is restricted from using any of the cash held by Tethys or its subsidiaries for general corporate use nor is it able to use those funds for the drilling program in Georgia so long as there is principal outstanding under those notes. Under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement entered into with the new private investors, TPL is subject to certain positive and negative covenants which require the consent of the holders of not less than 75% of the ordinary shares in issue in TPL from time to time (the “Shareholder Majority”). The Agreement also outlines certain provisions in relation to the conduct of the TPL business and provided that the intention of TPL, CanArgo Limited and the Investors is to use their reasonable endeavors to work towards a listing of TPL as soon as practicable, subject to (i) the financial and commercial circumstances of TPL, and the pre-money valuation of TPL prior to the listing being acceptable to the Shareholder Majority; and (ii) the terms and amounts (if any) raised by TPL on such listing being acceptable to the board of TPL. With the completion of the private placement in February 2007, we have fully funded the currently planned budget for our operating and development expenditure in Kazakhstan for 2007. Consequently, the aforementioned items raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon raising capital through debt and equity financing on terms desirable to the Company. If the Company is unable to obtain additional funds when they are required or if the funds cannot be obtained on terms favorable to the Company, management may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate its well development program or license third parties to develop or market products that the Company would otherwise seek to develop or market itself, or even be required to relinquish its interest in the properties or in the extreme situation, cease operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our Current Operations Are Dependent On the Success of Our Georgian Exploration Activities and Our Activities on the Ninotsminda Field. To date we have directed substantially all of our efforts and most of our available funds to the development of the Ninotsminda Field in the Kura Basin in the eastern part of Georgia, appraisal of the Manavi oil discovery, and exploration in that area and some ancillary activities in the Kura Basin area. This decision is based on management’s assessment of the promise of the Kura Basin area. However, our focus on the Ninotsminda Field has over the past several years resulted in overall losses for us. We cannot assure investors that the exploration and development plans for the Ninotsminda Field will be successful. For example, the Ninotsminda Field may not produce sufficient quantities of oil and gas and at sufficient rates to justify the investment we have made and are planning to make in the Field, and we may not be able to produce the oil and gas at a sufficiently low cost or to market the oil and gas produced at a sufficiently high price to generate a positive cash flow and a profit. Our Georgian exploration program, particularly in the Manavi and Norio areas, is an important factor for future success, and this program may not be successful, as it carries substantial risk. See “Our oil and gas activities involve risks, many of which are beyond our control” below for a description of a number of these potential risks 18 Table of Contents and losses. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of such risks and some, but not all, of such losses. The occurrence of an event not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Operation Of The Ninotsminda Field Is Governed By a Production Sharing Contract Which May Be Subject To Certain Legal Uncertainties. Our principal business and assets are derived from production sharing contracts in Georgia. The legislative and procedural regimes governing production sharing agreements and mineral use licenses in Georgia have undergone a series of changes in recent years resulting in certain legal uncertainties. Our production sharing agreements and mineral use licenses, entered into prior to the introduction in 1999 of a new Petroleum Law governing such agreements have not, as yet, been amended to reflect or ensure compliance with current legislation. As a result, despite references in the current legislation grandfathering the terms and conditions of our production sharing contracts, conflicts between the interpretation of our production sharing contracts and mineral use licenses and current legislation could arise. Such conflicts, if they arose, could cause an adverse effect on our rights under the production sharing contracts. We May Encounter Difficulties In Enforcing Our Title To Our Properties. Since all of our oil and gas interests are currently held in countries where there is currently no private ownership of oil and gas in place, good title to our interests is dependent on the validity and enforceability of the governmental licenses and production sharing contracts and similar contractual arrangements that we enter into with government entities, either directly or indirectly. As is customary in such circumstances, we perform a minimal title investigation before acquiring our interests, which generally consists of conducting due diligence reviews and in certain circumstances securing written assurances from responsible government authorities or legal opinions. We believe that we have satisfactory title to such interests in accordance with standards generally accepted in the crude oil and natural gas industry in the areas in which we operate. Our interests in properties are subject to royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens, none of which we believe materially interferes with the use of, or affects the value of, such interests. However, as is discussed elsewhere, there is no assurance that our title to its interests will be enforceable in all circumstances due to the uncertain nature and predictability of the legal systems in some of the countries in which we operate. We Will Require Additional Funds To Implement Our Long-Term Oil And Gas Development Plans. It will take many years and substantial cash expenditures to develop fully our oil and gas properties. We generally have the principal responsibility to provide financing for our oil and gas properties and ventures. Accordingly, we may need to raise additional funds from outside sources in order to pay for project development costs. We may not be able to obtain that additional financing. If adequate funds are not available, we will be required to scale back or even suspend our operations or such funds may only be available on commercially unattractive terms. The carrying value of the Ninotsminda Field may not be realized unless additional capital expenditures are incurred to develop the Field. Furthermore, additional funds will be required to pursue exploration activities on our existing undeveloped properties. While expected to be substantial, without further exploration work and evaluation the amount of funds needed to fully develop all of our oil and gas properties cannot at present be quantified. 19 Table of Contents We May Be Unable To Finance Our Oil And Gas Projects. Our long term ability to finance most of our present oil and gas projects and other ventures according to present plans is dependent upon obtaining additional funding. An inability to obtain financing in the future could require us to scale back or abandon part or all of our future project development, capital expenditure, production and other plans. The availability of equity or debt financing to us or to the entities that are developing projects in which we have interests is affected by many factors, including: • world and regional economic conditions; • the state of international relations; • the stability and the legal, regulatory, fiscal and tax policies of various governments in the areas in which we have or intend to have operations; • fluctuations in the world and regional price of oil and gas and in interest rates; • the outlook for the oil and gas industry in general and in areas in which we have or intend to have operations; and • competition for funds from possible alternative investment projects. Potential investors and lenders will be influenced by their evaluations of us and our projects, including their technical difficulty, and comparison with available alternative investment opportunities. Our Operations May Be Subject To The Risk Of Political Instability, Civil Disturbance And Terrorism. Our principal oil and gas properties and activities are in Georgia and, currently, to a lesser extent in Kazakhstan, which are both located in the former Soviet Union. Operation and development of our assets are subject to a number of conditions endemic to former Soviet Union countries, including political instability. The present governmental arrangements in countries of the former Soviet Union in which we operate were established relatively recently, when they replaced communist regimes. If they fail to maintain the support of their citizens, other institutions, including a possible reversion to totalitarian forms of government, could replace these governments. As recent developments in Georgia have illustrated, the national governments in these countries often must deal, from time to time, with civil disturbances and unrest which may be based on religious, tribal and local and regional separatist considerations. Further, relations between Georgia and the Russian Federation have involved periods of political tension. Our operations typically involve joint ventures or other participatory arrangements with the national government or state-owned companies. The production sharing contract covering the Ninotsminda Field is an example of such arrangements. As a result of such dependency on government participants, our operations could be adversely affected by political instability, terrorism, changes in government institutions, personnel, policies or legislation, or shifts in political power. There is also the risk that governments could seek to nationalize, expropriate or otherwise take over our oil and gas properties either directly or through the enactment of laws and regulations which have an economically confiscatory result. We are not insured against political or terrorism risks because management deems the premium costs of such insurance to be currently prohibitively expensive. 20 Table of Contents We Face The Risk Of Social, Economic And Legal Instability In The Countries In Which We Operate. The political institutions of the countries that were a part of the former Soviet Union have become more fragmented, and the economic institutions of these countries have converted to a market economy from a planned economy. New laws have been introduced, and the legal and regulatory regimes in such regions may be vague, containing gaps and inconsistencies, and are subject to amendment. Application and enforceability of these laws may also vary widely from region to region within these countries. Due to this instability, former Soviet Union countries are subject to certain additional risks including the uncertainty as to the enforceability of contracts. Social, economic and legal instability have accompanied these changes due to many factors which include: • low standards of living; • high unemployment; • under-developed and changing legal and social institutions; and • conflicts within and with neighbouring countries. This instability could make continued operations difficult or impossible. Georgia has democratically elected a President following a popular revolt against the previous administration in November 2003 and has successfully quelled a potential separatist uprising in one of its regions. Although the new administration has made public statements supporting foreign investment in Georgia, and has provided specific written support for our activities, there can be no guarantee that this will continue, or that these changes will not have an adverse affect on our operations. There are also some separatist areas within Georgia that receive support from the Russian Federation that may cause instability and potentially affect our activities. We Face An Inadequate Or Deteriorating Infrastructure In The Countries In Which We Operate. Countries in the former Soviet Union often either have underdeveloped infrastructures or, as a result of shortages of resources, have permitted infrastructure improvements to deteriorate. The lack of necessary infrastructure improvements can adversely affect operations. For example, we have, in the past, suspended drilling and testing procedures due to the lack of a reliable power supply. We May Encounter Currency Risks In The Countries In Which We Operate. Payment for oil and gas products sold in former Soviet Union countries may be in local currencies. Although we currently sell our oil principally for U.S. dollars, we may not be able to continue to demand payment in hard currencies in the future. Most former Soviet Union country currencies are presently convertible into U.S. dollars, but there is no assurance that such convertibility will continue. Even if currencies are convertible, the rate at which they convert into U.S. dollars is subject to fluctuation. In addition, the ability to transfer currencies into or out of former Soviet Union countries may be restricted or limited in the future. We may enter into contracts with suppliers in former Soviet Union countries to purchase goods and services in U.S. dollars. We may also obtain from lenders credit facilities or other debt denominated in U.S. dollars. If we cannot receive payment for oil and oil products in U.S. dollars and the value of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar deteriorates, we could face significant negative changes in working capital. We May Encounter Tax Risks In The Countries In Which We Operate. Countries may add to or amend existing taxation policies in reaction to economic conditions including state budgetary and revenue shortfalls and political considerations. Since we are dependent on international operations, specifically those in Georgia, we may be subject to changing taxation policies including the possible imposition of confiscatory excess profits, production, remittance, export and other taxes. While we are not aware of any recent or proposed tax changes which could materially adversely affect our operations, such changes could occur although we have negotiated economic stabilization clauses in our production sharing contracts in Georgia and all current taxes are payable from the State’s share of petroleum produced under the production sharing contracts. 21 Table of Contents We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting which, if not remediated, may adversely affect our ability to timely and accurately meet our financial reporting responsibilities. We identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. Our management, in consultation with our audit committee, is continually reviewing the most cost effective way to address material weaknesses and deficiencies identified. Our failure to complete this remediation process may adversely affect our ability to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner. Risks Associated with our Industry. We May Be Required To Write-Off Unsuccessful Properties And Projects. In order to realize the carrying value of our oil and gas properties and ventures, we must produce oil and gas in sufficient quantities and then sell such oil and gas at sufficient prices to produce a profit. We have a number of unevaluated oil and gas properties. The risks associated with successfully developing unevaluated oil and gas properties are even greater than those associated with successfully continuing development of producing oil and gas properties, since the existence and extent of commercial quantities of oil and gas in unevaluated properties have not been established. We could be required in the future to write-off our investments in additional projects, including the Ninotsminda Field project, if such projects prove to be unsuccessful. Our Oil And Gas Activities Involve Risks, Many Of Which Are Beyond Our Control. Our exploration, development and production activities are subject to a number of factors and risks, many of which may be beyond our control. We must first successfully identify commercial quantities of oil and gas, which is inherently subject to many uncertainties. Thereafter, the development of an oil and gas deposit can be affected by a number of factors which are beyond the operator’s control, such as: • unexpected or unusual geological conditions; • the recoverability of the oil and gas on an economic basis; • the availability of infrastructure and personnel to support operations; • labor disputes; • local and global oil prices; and • government regulation and legal and political uncertainties. Our activities can also be affected by a number of hazards, such as: • natural phenomena, such as bad weather and earthquakes; • operating hazards, such as fires, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failures and casing collapses; and • environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures and discharges of toxic gases. Any of these factors or hazards could result in damage, losses or liability for us. There is also an increased risk of some of these hazards in connection with operations that involve the rehabilitation of fields where less than optimal practices and technology were employed in the past, as was often the case in the countries that were part of the former Soviet Union. We do not purchase insurance covering all of the risks and hazards or all of our potential liability that are involved in oil and gas exploration, development and production. We May Have Conflicting Interests With Our Partners. Joint venture, acquisition, financing and other agreements and arrangements must be negotiated with independent third parties and, in some cases, must be approved by governmental agencies. These third parties generally have objectives and interests that may not coincide with ours and may conflict with our interests. Unless we are able to compromise these conflicting objectives and interests in a mutually acceptable manner, 22 Table of Contents agreements and arrangements with these third parties will not be consummated. We may not have a majority of the equity in the entity that is the licensed developer of some projects that we may pursue in the countries that were a part of the former Soviet Union, even though we may be the designated operator of the oil or gas field. In these circumstances, the concurrence of co-venturers may be required for various actions. Other parties influencing the timing of events may have priorities that differ from ours, even if they generally share our objectives. Demands by or expectations of governments, co-venturers, customers, and others may affect our strategy regarding the various projects. Failure to meet such demands or expectations could adversely affect our participation in such projects or our ability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses and other approvals. Our Operating Direct And Indirect Subsidiaries And Joint Ventures Require Governmental Registration. Operating entities in various foreign jurisdictions must be registered by governmental agencies, and production licenses and contracts for the development of oil and gas fields in various foreign jurisdictions must be granted by governmental agencies. These governmental agencies generally have broad discretion in determining whether to take or approve various actions and matters. In addition, the policies and practices of governmental agencies may be affected or altered by political, economic and other events occurring either within their own countries or in a broader international context. We Are Affected By Changes In The Market Price Of Oil And Gas. Prices for oil and natural gas and their refined products are subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors which are beyond our control, including: • global and regional changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas; • actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations; • the price and availability of alternative fuels; • political conditions and terrorist activity in the Middle East, Central Asia and elsewhere; and • overall global and regional economic conditions. A reduction in oil prices can affect the economic viability of our operations. There can be no assurance that oil prices will be at a level that will enable us to operate at a profit. We may also not benefit from rapid increases in oil prices as the market for the levels of crude oil produced in Georgia by Ninotsminda Oil Company Limited can in such an environment be relatively inelastic. Contract prices are often set at a specified price determined with reference to world market prices (often based on the average of a number of quotations for a “marker” crude including Dated Brent Mediterranean or Urals Mediterranean at the time of sale) subject to appropriate discounts for transportation and other charges which can vary from contract to contract. Our Actual Oil And Gas Production Could Vary Significantly From Reserve Estimates. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves and their values by petroleum engineers are inherently uncertain. These estimates are based on professional judgments about a number of elements: 23 Table of Contents • the amount of recoverable crude oil and natural gas present in a reservoir; • the costs that will be incurred to produce the crude oil and natural gas; and • the rate at which production will occur. Reserve estimates are also based on evaluations of geological, engineering, production and economic data. The data can change over time due to, among other things: • additional development activity; • evolving production history; and • changes in production costs, market prices and economic conditions. As a result, the actual amount, cost and rate of production of oil and gas reserves and the revenues derived from sale of the oil and gas produced in the future will vary from those anticipated in the reports on the oil and gas reserves prepared by independent petroleum consultants at any given point in time. The magnitude of those variations may be material. The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. Except to the extent we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional productive zones in existing wells or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future crude oil and natural gas production is therefore highly dependent upon our level of success in replacing depleted reserves. Our Oil And Gas Operations Are Subject To Extensive Governmental Regulation. Governments at all levels, national, regional and local, regulate oil and gas activities extensively. We must comply with laws and regulations which govern many aspects of our oil and gas business, including: • exploration; • development; • production; • refining; • marketing; • transportation; • occupational health and safety; • labor standards; and • environmental matters. We expect the trend towards more burdensome regulation of our business to result in increased costs and operational delays. This trend is particularly applicable in developing economies, such as those in the countries that were a part of the former Soviet Union where we have our principal operations. In these countries, the evolution towards a more developed economy is often accompanied by a move towards the more burdensome regulations that typically exist in more developed economies. 24 Table of Contents We Face Significant Competition. The oil and gas industry, including the refining and marketing of crude oil products, is highly competitive. Our competitors include integrated oil and gas companies, government owned oil companies, independent oil and gas companies, drilling and income programs, and wealthy individuals. Many of our competitors are large, well-established, well-financed companies. Because of our small size and lack of financial resources, we may not be able to compete effectively with these companies. Our Profitability May Be Subject To Changes In Interest Rates. Our profitability may also be adversely affected during any period of unexpected or rapid increase in interest rates. While we currently have only limited amounts of long term debt, increases in interest rates may adversely affect our ability to raise debt capital to the extent that our income from operations will be insufficient to cover debt service. Risks Associated with our Stock. Limited Trading Volume In Our Common Stock May Contribute To Price Volatility. Our common stock is listed for trading on the Oslo Stock Exchange (“OSE”) in Norway, and on the American Stock Exchange (“AMEX”) in New York. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the average daily trading volume for our common stock on the OSE was 3,055,728 shares and 881,919 shares on the AMEX both as reported by Yahoo© and the closing price of our stock during such period ranged from a low of NOK 3,97 and $0.62 to a high of NOK 10.20 and $1.66 on the OSE and AMEX, respectively, as reported by Yahoo©. As a relatively small company with a limited market capitalization, even if our shares are more widely disseminated, we are uncertain as to whether a more active trading market in our common stock will develop. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. The Price Of Our Common Stock May Be Subject To Wide Fluctuations. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to quarterly variations in our results of operations, changes in earnings estimates by analysts, changing conditions in the oil and gas industry or changes in general market, economic or political conditions. We Do Not Anticipate Paying Cash Dividends In The Foreseeable Future. We have not paid any cash dividends to date on the common stock and there are no plans for such dividend payments in the foreseeable future. We Have A Significant Number Of Shares Eligible For Future Sale. At March 9, 2007, we had 238,487,390 shares of common stock outstanding of which 53,482,484 shares were held by affiliates. In addition, at March 9, 2007, we had 45,270 shares issuable upon exchange of CanArgo Oil & Gas Inc. Exchangeable Shares without receipt of further consideration; 9,276,000 shares of common stock subject to outstanding options granted under certain stock option plans (of which 8,145,000 shares were vested at March 9, 2007); 26,800,000 shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants; up to 8,568,667 shares of common stock reserved for issuance under our existing option plans; up to 50,965,277 shares reserved for issuance in connection with certain existing contractual arrangements, including 10,000,000 shares upon conversion of the 12% Subordinated Convertible Guaranteed Note due June 28, 2010 (“12% Subordinated Notes”) and 13,000,000 shares upon conversion of the Senior Subordinated Convertible Guaranteed Notes due September 1, 2009 (“Subordinated Notes”) and 27,777,777 shares upon conversion of the Company’s Senior Secured Notes due July 25, 2009 (“Senior Secured Notes”). All of the shares of common stock held by affiliates are restricted or control securities under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the stock options have been registered under the Securities Act. In addition, the 63,228,645 shares issued and issuable pursuant to contractual arrangements, including under the Subordinated Notes and Senior Secured Notes, are subject to certain registration rights and, therefore, will be eligible for resale in the public market after registration statements covering such shares. Sales of shares of common stock under Rule 144 or pursuant to a registration statement could have a material adverse effect on the price of the common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities. 25 Table of Contents Our Ability To Incur Additional Indebtedness Is Restricted Under the Terms of the 12% Subordinated Notes, the Subordinated Notes and Senior Secured Notes. Pursuant to the terms of the Note Purchase Agreements entered into by and between CanArgo and the purchasers of the 12% Subordinated, Subordinated and Senior Secured Notes, we may not incur future indebtedness or issue additional senior or pari passu indebtedness, except with the prior consent of the beneficial holders of at least 51% (in the case of the Senior Secured Notes) or 50% (in the case of the Subordinated or 12% Subordinated Notes) of the outstanding principal amount of each such Notes or in limited permitted circumstances. The definition of indebtedness in each of the Note Purchase Agreements encompasses all customary forms of indebtedness, including, without limitation, liabilities for deferred consideration, liabilities for borrowed money secured by any lien or other specified security interest (except permitted liens), liabilities in respect of letters of credit or similar instruments (excluding letters of credit which are 100% cash collateralized) and guarantees in relation to such forms of indebtedness (excluding parent company guarantees provided by CanArgo in respect of the indebtedness or obligations of any of our subsidiaries under any Basic Documents (as defined in each of the Note Purchase Agreements). Our Ability To Make Future Stock Issuances, the Terms of the 12% Subordinated Notes, the Subordinated Notes and Senior Secured Notes And The Provisions Of Delaware Law Could Have Anti-Takeover Effects. Our board of directors may at any time issue additional shares of preferred stock and common stock without any prior approval by the stockholders, which might impair or impede a third party from making an offer to acquire us. Holders of outstanding shares have no right to purchase a pro rata portion of additional shares of common or preferred stock issued by us. Further, under the terms of the 12% Subordinated Notes, the Subordinated Notes and Senior Secured Notes, in the event of a “Change of Control” or a “Control Event” we are required to offer to prepay the Notes which might also dissuade a third party from making an acquisition offer. See Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for the definition of “Change of Control” and “Control Event”. In addition, the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to which we are subject, places certain restrictions on third parties who seek to effect a business combination with a company opposed by our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 