Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common shares involves various risks, including those mentioned below and those that are discussed from time to time in our other periodic filings with the SEC. Investors should carefully consider these risks, along with the other information filed in this report, before making an investment decision regarding our common shares. There may be additional risks which the Company is currently unaware of or which we currently consider immaterial. All of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or value of our common shares. A continuation of the deterioration in the economic environment could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Recessionary economic conditions coupled with a tightening of credit could continue to adversely impact major markets served by our businesses, including cyclical markets such as automotive, heavy construction vehicle, general industrial and food service. A continuation of the economic recession could adversely affect our business by: • reducing demand for our products and services, particularly in markets where demand for our products and services is cyclical; • causing delays or cancellations of orders for our products or services; • reducing capital spending by our customers; • increasing price competition in our markets; • increasing difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • increasing the risk of excess or obsolete inventories; • increasing the risk of impairment to long-lived assets due to reduced use of manufacturing facilities; • increasing the risk of supply interruptions that would be disruptive to our manufacturing processes; and • reducing the availability of credit for our customers. We rely on our credit facility to provide us with sufficient capital to operate our businesses. We rely on our revolving credit facility to provide us with sufficient capital to operate our businesses. The availability of borrowings under our revolving credit facility is dependent upon our compliance with the covenants set forth in the facility, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent upon our future performance, which is subject to economic conditions in our markets along with factors that are beyond our control. Violation of those covenants could result in our lenders restricting or terminating our borrowing ability under our credit facility, cause us to be liable for covenant waiver fees or other obligations, or trigger an event of default under the terms of our credit facility which could result in acceleration of the debt under the facility and require prepayment of the debt before its due date. Even if new financing is available in the event of a default under our current credit facility, the interest rate charged on any new borrowing could be substantially higher than under the current credit facility, thus adversely affecting our overall financial condition. If our lenders reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facility, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our working capital needs or we may need to secure additional capital or financing to fund our working capital requirements or to repay outstanding debt under our credit facility. Our credit facility contains covenants that restrict our activities. Our revolving credit facility contains covenants that restrict our activities, including our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make investments; • create liens; • pay cash dividends unless we are in compliance with certain financial covenants; and • sell material assets. Our global operations subject us to international business risks. We operate in 33 locations outside of the United States in Europe, Canada, China, India, Singapore, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, and South Africa. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks inherent to the operation and expansion of our global businesses, those risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Those international business risks include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • restrictions on repatriation of earnings; • import and export controls; • political, social and economic instability or disruptions; • potential adverse tax consequences; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • difficulties in our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; and • changes in regulatory requirements. Failure to achieve expected savings and synergies could adversely impact our operating profits and cash flows. We focus on improving profitability through lean enterprise, low cost sourcing and manufacturing initiatives, improving working capital management, developing new and enhanced products, consolidating factories where appropriate, automating manufacturing processes, diversification efforts and completing acquisitions which deliver synergies to supplement sales and growth. If we were unable to successfully execute these programs, this failure could adversely affect our operating profits and cash flows. In addition, actions we may take to consolidate manufacturing operations to achieve cost savings or adjust to market developments may result in restructuring charges that adversely affect our profits. Violation of anti-bribery or similar laws by our employees, business partners or agents could result in fines, penalties, damage to our reputation or other adverse consequences. We cannot assure that our internal controls, code of conduct and training of our employees will provide complete protection from reckless or criminal acts of our employees, business partners or agents that might violate US or international laws relating to anti-bribery or similar topics. An action resulting in a violation of these laws could subject us to civil or criminal investigations that could result in substantial civil or criminal fines and penalties and which could damage our reputation. We face significant competition in our markets and, if we are not able to respond to competition in our markets, our net sales, profits and cash flows could decline. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. In order to effectively compete, we must retain longstanding relationships with significant customers, offer attractive pricing, develop enhancements to products that offer performance features that are superior to our competitors and which maintain our brand recognition, continue to automate our manufacturing capabilities, continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, diversify into emerging markets and penetrate new markets. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales, profitability and cash flows could decline. Pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely affect our net sales and profitability. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products and product enhancements, our future growth could be impaired. Our ability to develop new products and innovations to satisfy customer needs or demands in the markets we serve can affect our competitive position and often requires significant investment of resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and services or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies may significantly reduce future net sales and adversely affect our competitive position. Increased prices or significant shortages of the commodities that we use in our businesses could result in lower net sales, profits and cash flows. We purchase large quantities of steel, refrigeration components, freight services, foam insulation and other metal commodities for the manufacture of our products. Historically, prices for commodities have fluctuated, and we are unable to enter into long term contracts or other arrangements to hedge the risk of price increases in these commodities. Significant price increases for these commodities could adversely affect our operating profits if we cannot timely mitigate the price increases by successfully sourcing lower cost commodities or by passing the increased costs on to customers. Shortages or other disruptions in the supply of these commodities could delay sales or increase costs. An inability to identify or complete future acquisitions could adversely affect our future growth. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to pursue acquisitions that provide opportunities for profitable growth for our businesses and which enable us to leverage our competitive strengths. While we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. An inability to identify or complete future acquisitions could limit our future growth. We may experience difficulties in integrating acquisitions. Integration of acquired companies involves a number of risks, including: • inability to operate acquired businesses profitably; • failure to accomplish strategic objectives for those acquisitions; • unanticipated costs relating to acquisitions or to the integration of the acquired businesses; • difficulties in achieving planned cost savings and synergies; and • possible future impairment charges for goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that are recorded as a result of acquisitions. Additionally, our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure that future acquisitions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Impairment charges could reduce our profitability. We test goodwill and our other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs that might reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. In connection with the divestiture of the Air Distribution Products (“ADP”) business, we determined that, based on the net realizable value of the business in the transaction, the goodwill of the ADP reporting unit was impaired. As such, we recognized $14.9 million in impairment charges in discontinued operations during the second quarter of 2012. During fiscal 2009, we incurred an impairment charge of $21.3 million relating to goodwill and intangible assets in our Food Service Equipment Group. Various uncertainties, including continued adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions, could impact the future operating performance at one or more of our businesses which could significantly affect our valuations and could result in additional future impairments. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill would negatively affect our results of operations, the effect of which could be material to us. Material adverse or unforeseen legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could have an adverse impact on our profits and cash flows. We are and may, from time to time, become a party to legal proceedings incidental to our businesses, including, but not limited to, alleged claims relating to product liability, environmental compliance, patent infringement, commercial disputes and employment matters. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, we have established reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of loss contingencies recorded as reserves which could require us to record additional reserves or make material payments which could adversely affect our profits and cash flows. Even the successful defense of legal proceedings may cause us to incur substantial legal costs and may divert management's time and resources away from our businesses. The costs of complying with existing or future environmental regulations, and of correcting any violations of these regulations, could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws relating to the storage, discharge, handling, emission, generation, use and disposal of chemicals, hazardous waste and other toxic and hazardous materials used to manufacture, or resulting from the process of manufacturing, our products. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing or future laws will be administered or interpreted. We are also exposed to potential legacy environmental risks relating to businesses we no longer own or operate. Future regulations could be applied to materials, products or activities that have not been subject to regulation previously. The costs of complying with new or more stringent regulations, or with more vigorous enforcement of these or existing regulations, could be significant. In addition, properly permitted waste disposal facilities used by us as a legal and legitimate repository for hazardous waste may in the future become mismanaged or abandoned without our knowledge or involvement. In such event, legacy landfill liability could attach to or be imposed upon us in proportion to the waste deposited at any disposal facility. Environmental laws require us to maintain and comply with a number of permits, authorizations and approvals and to maintain and update training programs and safety data regarding materials used in our processes. Violations of these requirements could result in financial penalties and other enforcement actions. We could be required to halt one or more portions of our operations until a violation is cured. Although we attempt to operate in compliance with these environmental laws, we may not succeed in this effort at all times. The costs of curing violations or resolving enforcement actions that might be initiated by government authorities could be substantial. Contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have retained responsibility for some of the known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims, multiemployer plan withdrawal liabilities and environmental matters and have agreed to indemnify purchasers of these businesses for certain of those contingent liabilities. The purchaser of Berean Christian Bookstores, a former subsidiary of the Company, filed a Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition on June 9, 2009. On July 27, 2009, the Bankruptcy Court approved a sale under Section 363 of the Bankruptcy Code of substantially all of the assets of Berean to a newly-formed entity, Berean Christian Stores Endeavor, LLC ("Berean Endeavor"), which has assumed all of the Berean leases on which we remain an obligor. The failure of Berean Endeavor to improve the performance of the business could make it unable to satisfy its obligations under the leases, which could trigger our continuing obligation. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience substantial losses. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may become volatile again in the future. The trading price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate in response to a variety of factors, including: • our failure to meet the performance estimates of securities analysts; • changes in financial estimates of our net sales and operating results or buy/sell recommendations by securities analysts; • fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • substantial sales of our common stock; • changes in the amount or frequency of our payment of dividends or repurchases of our common stock; • general stock market conditions; or • other economic or external factors. Decreases in discount rates and actual rates of return could require future pension contributions to our pension plans which could limit our flexibility in managing our company. Key assumptions inherent in our actuarially calculated pension plan obligations and pension plan expense are the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets. If discount rates and actual rates of return on invested plan assets were to decrease significantly, our pension plan obligations could increase materially. The size of future required pension contributions could require us to dedicate a greater portion of our cash flow from operations to making contributions, which could negatively impact our financial flexibility. Various restrictions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our credit agreement could prevent or delay a change in control of us that is not supported by our board of directors. We are subject to a number of provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our credit facility that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or change of control that a stockholder may consider favorable. These anti-takeover provisions include: • maintaining a classified board and imposing advance notice procedures for nominations of candidates for election as directors and for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders' meetings; • a provision in our certificate of incorporation that requires the approval of the holders of 80% of the outstanding shares of our common stock to adopt any agreement of merger, the sale of substantially all of the assets of Standex to a third party or the issuance or transfer by Standex of voting securities having a fair market value of $1 million or more to a third party, if in any such case such third party is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock, unless the transaction has been approved prior to its consummation by all of our directors; • requiring the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our common stock for stockholders to amend our amended and restated by-laws; • covenants in our credit facility restricting mergers, asset sales and similar transactions; and • the Delaware anti-takeover statute contained in Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a merger, consolidation, asset sale or other similar business combination between Standex and any stockholder of 15% or more of our voting stock for a period of three years after the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, unless (1) the transaction is approved by our board of directors before the stockholder acquires 15% or more of our voting stock, (2) upon completing the transaction the stockholder owns at least 85% of our voting stock outstanding at the commencement of the transaction, or (3) the transaction is approved by our board of directors and the holders of 66 2/3% of our voting stock, excluding shares of our voting stock owned by the stockholder. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 