Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to regulation of the telecommunications industry The telecommunications industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state and local levels. The costs of complying with this regulation, delays or failures to receive required regulatory approvals, or the enactment of new, adverse regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect upon our business. The risks presented by the regulatory environment we face include the following: The amounts we can charge for most of our services are subject to regulatory restrictions. Our financial results have been adversely affected by recent reductions in access rates and may be further adversely affected by future regulatory decisions. Approximately 14.1% of our consolidated revenues for both of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were from local service fees paid by customers of our RLEC. These fees, and other charges imposed by our RLEC for in-state services, are currently subject to an alternative regulation plan approved by the PUC. We believe that this regulatory arrangement is more favorable to us than traditional rate of return regulation. On November 30, 2004, the Governor of Pennsylvania signed legislation that authorized CT to amend its alternative regulation plan to include a commitment to deliver broadband service to all customers by December 31, 2008. Under the legislation, this commitment entitles CT to eliminate the 2% yearly offset in its price adjustment formula, although CT could be required to refund the additional revenues collected due to this amendment if it fails to meet its broadband commitment. 8 Under the amended plan that is now in effect, CT can change its in-state rates, in the aggregate, based on changes in inflation or for events deemed outside of CT’s control that result in reduced revenues or increased expenses. These increases may not be sufficient to cover increases in our costs. Additionally, approximately 43.2% and 42.6% of our consolidated revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, came from charges paid to us by other carriers for services CT and CTSI provided in originating and terminating intrastate and interstate toll calls, and terminating local calls received from wireless carriers and other telephone companies. The payments that we receive for these services are regulated by the FCC and the Pennsylvania PUC. The amounts charged by both CT and CTSI for these services have been reduced by recent regulatory decisions. CT currently receives its interstate access revenues pursuant to average cost schedules established by NECA. If CT should lose its average schedule status, or if NECA should make changes in its cost schedules or methodology, we could incur a significant loss of interstate access revenue. We cannot predict whether any additional FCC or Pennsylvania PUC rules will be passed that will result in further reductions in the revenues we receive, although the FCC is currently considering proposals that could significantly change the interstate access charge system. Additionally, these agencies’ current rules may change as a result of judicial review or changes in legislation. If any of the favorable regulatory provisions from which CT currently benefits were to be unfavorably modified or terminated, we could experience higher costs and lower revenues. Because of its status as a rural telephone company under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, or the Act, CT is not currently required to comply with that Act’s provisions requiring an incumbent carrier to unbundle its network, provide colocation, provide resale discounts, provide interconnection at rates based on forward-looking incremental costs or other items. If this limitation were to change, more competitors could enter our RLEC markets than we currently expect. CT might have to provide these competitors with access to our facilities at rates lower than what we currently charge our customers for use of those facilities. We could also incur additional administrative and regulatory expenses as a result of such newly imposed requirements. The Pennsylvania PUC has authority under the Act to terminate CT’s rural exemption if it receives a request to do so from another telecommunications carrier. To date, no other carrier has made such a request to the Pennsylvania PUC, but we have no assurance that CT’s rural exemption will remain in effect indefinitely. Loss of our access to network elements from incumbent telephone companies or an increase in the prices we must pay for such elements would adversely affect CTSI’s business. Approximately half of CTSI’s customers are served, at least in part, by network elements leased primarily from Verizon. CTSI’s business, therefore, depends in large part on our ability to provide service to our customers by leasing various elements of the incumbent telephone company’s network to provide local service. The Act, and FCC and state commission rulings under the Act, require incumbent telephone companies to lease network elements. If these rules are changed by the FCC or state commissions, or are struck down by the courts, our ability to provide service in a cost-effective manner could be adversely affected. For example, the FCC could remove one or more of the necessary elements that the incumbent telephone company is required to provide to us, or permit substantial increases in the amounts the incumbent company can charge CTSI. If incumbent telephone companies were no longer required to provide unbundled network elements on favorable terms, CTSI’s operating margins would be reduced and it might not be able to effectively compete. The FCC has made several significant changes in recent years to its rules governing access to unbundled network elements. Under the new rules, Verizon is required to continue to offer access to unbundled voice-grade loops. However, we cannot assure you that these rules will not change in the future. Regulatory requirements could delay or prevent our ability to take actions we consider beneficial to our business. Pennsylvania law requires us to secure consent from the Pennsylvania PUC before CT or CTSI may issue capital stock, incur long-term debt or sell or otherwise dispose of material utility assets. Both the FCC and the PUC must review any transaction that results in a “change of control” of a regulated entity or of a holding 9 company of a regulated entity. The approval process for these transactions can be lengthy and could restrict our ability to offer services, set prices, obtain financing, affect mergers or otherwise arrange a sale of the Company or take other steps that we may believe to be in our best interest. Risks related to the competitive nature of the telecommunications industry The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face actual or potential competition from many existing and emerging companies, including other incumbent and competitive local telephone companies, long-distance carriers and resellers, wireless telephone companies, Internet service providers, satellite companies and cable companies. We may not be able to successfully anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including regulatory changes that may affect our competitors and us differently, new technologies and services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and discount pricing strategies by competitors. Also, recent consolidation in the telecommunications industry (for example, Verizon and MCI) can result in the rerouting of traffic off of our network to other carriers that could adversely effect our results of operations. The risks to our business from competition include the following: Verizon, as the incumbent local carrier in CTSI’s markets, has competitive advantages over us which adversely affect our operating margins. As the incumbent carrier in CTSI’s markets, Verizon enjoys competitive advantages, including its wireline connection to virtually all of our customers and potential customers, its established brand name and its substantial financial resources. As a competitive local carrier, we are effectively required to discount our services to win potential customers and to pay substantial amounts to Verizon to lease elements of its networks. These factors result in lower operating margins for CTSI, and make us especially vulnerable to any discount pricing policies that Verizon may adopt to exploit its lower-cost structure and greater financial resources. Additionally, Verizon offers in-region long-distance services to its Pennsylvania customers, which allows it to offer attractive service packages to its customers in the markets we serve, including DSL. Verizon has recently acquired MCI, another competitor in the markets we serve, which may increase Verizon’s advantages. We face intense competition in our markets for long-distance, Internet access and other ancillary services that are important to our business and to our growth strategy. An important part of our business strategy is to sell additional services to local customers in both the CT and CTSI markets. The markets for these ancillary services, however, are extremely competitive, and in some cases, are dominated by companies far larger than our own with lower costs and greater name recognition and technical and financial resources, than ours. Our competitors for these services include, in addition to Verizon, long-distance companies like AT&T, Verizon Business and Sprint, and, in the Internet service provider business, Time Warner (AOL) and discounted service providers, regional Internet service providers and cable companies such as Service Electric, Blue Ridge and Comcast. In addition, as with most telephone providers today, the low-cost telephony and long-distance products being offered by Vonage and other VoIP providers are starting to have a nominal impact on our residential and business wireline service at this time. Telcove also enjoys a competitive advantage in CT and CTSI territory as a result of winning a contract with the state of Pennsylvania to provide telecommunications and data services to state government agencies, selected Pennsylvania colleges and universities and other businesses that fall under the Pennsylvania state government contract, that remains in place until 2011. To compete against these established companies, we expect to have to offer both lower prices and superior service to our customers, and we may not be able to do so on profitable terms. If we are unable to maintain a competitive offering of long-distance, Internet access and other ancillary services, we may lose local customers who prefer to obtain a package of services from one telecommunications provider. Technological developments could increase our costs and cause a decline in demand for our services. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology. If we do not replace or upgrade technology and equipment that becomes obsolete, we will be unable to compete effectively as we will not be able to meet the needs or expectations of our customers. Additionally, replacing or upgrading our infrastructure in the future could result in significant capital expenditures. Our wireline telecommunications services are also in competition, or potential competition, with numerous alternative technologies, including, in particular, wireless communications. The wireless telecommunications industry is experiencing significant technological change. Wireless carriers are improving the capacity and 10 quality of digital wireless technology, and are also expected to continue to reduce the prices for their services. These developments could reduce customer demand for our services and the prices that we will be able to charge for these services, particularly in CTSI’s markets where a number of wireless providers are established competitors and in certain areas of CT’s territory. We believe that future technological developments are likely to result in further improvements in wireless telecommunications services, as well as in other telecommunications technologies, and are likely to result in increased competition for our various businesses. Voice over Internet Protocol, also known as VoIP, is a service that could cause a decrease in demand for our traditional telephone services, including the demand for additional lines. VoIP is gaining market share among business users who look to Internet telephone systems to cut costs or improve efficiency. It is also possible for residential users to use VoIP as a replacement for a traditional telephone line (for example, by obtaining Internet access over a cable television system). We cannot predict which of many possible future technologies, products or services will be significant to our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide these technologies, products or services. Some of our competitors have superior resources that may place us at a cost and price disadvantage. Some of our current and potential competitors have market presence, technical and marketing capabilities and financial, or other resources substantially greater than ours. These competitors may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and selling of their products and services than we can. Additionally, the greater brand name recognition of some competitors, such as Verizon, requires us to price CTSI’s services at lower levels in order to win business. Finally, the cost advantages of some competitors may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Other business risks A substantial portion of CTSI’s revenues are derived from Internet service providers, or ISPs. A decline in these ISP customers or their customer base could negatively impact our financial results. CTSI derives a substantial portion of its revenues directly and indirectly from ISPs. ISPs represented approximately 15.1% and 17.1% of CTSI’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These high-margin revenues include services provided directly to ISPs, including local dial tone and transport (cap-type) services, and indirect services such as reciprocal compensation, and trunking from Verizon as a result of Verizon’s customers accessing these ISPs. Industry-wide trends towards declining usage of dial-up Internet access threaten the profitability or viability of our ISP customers. If we lose a large customer or a significant number of customers that are providing Internet services, or if a significant portion of these customers are unable to pay amounts owed to us, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Changes in the jurisdictional mix of CTSI’s traffic have adversely affected its results. CTSI’s revenues from access charges and reciprocal compensation are affected by the mix of traffic delivered to us by other carriers for termination to CTSI’s customers. In late 2003, Verizon notified CTSI of a reduction in the proportion of its delivered traffic that is subject to intrastate access charges, and a corresponding increase in the proportion that is subject to reciprocal compensation rates. Because the reciprocal compensation rates are significantly lower than intrastate access charges, this change in traffic mix permanently reduced CTSI’s revenues by approximately $700,000 per month. CTSI was notified in early 2005 by Verizon North (formerly GTE), requesting a change in the PLU factor. As a result of this request, CTSI is using a direct measurement billing approach instead of a PLU factor. The effect on CTSI’s revenue and operating income was a reduction of approximately $50,000 per month beginning April 2005 based on the actual traffic mix. Demand for our traditional dial-up Internet access services has matured. Within the total Internet access market, the market for traditional, narrowband dial-up access services is shrinking. Our traditional dial-up Internet service provided by epix® Internet Services has been declining since its peak at nearly 50,000 subscribers in 2001. As of December 31, 2005, epix® had approximately 22,400 dial-up subscribers. Continued decline in these services will adversely affect our results. 11 Demand for some of our services may be adversely affected by a downturn in the U.S., Pennsylvania or local economies in which we operate. Demand for some of our services may be adversely affected by a downturn in the U.S., Pennsylvania or local economies in which we operate. As a result, we may experience lower than expected revenues for some of our businesses. If current general economic conditions worsen, the revenues, cash flow and earnings of our company as a whole could be adversely affected. Our future switched access lines in service will likely be lower than our historical, and this decline may adversely affect our results. Additional line penetration in CT’s markets has been declining. Regulatory actions in the area of intercarrier compensation could result in increases in CT’s monthly per-line charges, which may discourage customers from purchasing or keeping additional lines. In addition, some customers who use an additional line for dial-up Internet access choose to cancel their additional line when they upgrade to DSL. To the extent that additional line penetration continues to decline, our ability to generate additional revenues from this source, which has been very important to our results in recent years, will decrease. Residential lines have also declined slightly due to wireless substitution. Our growth strategy will require us to invest significant capital in services that may not achieve the desired returns. We plan to continue to invest capital into services such as DSL. This business is highly competitive (with cable modem being the primary competitor), and we cannot be assured that we will be able to achieve the returns on investment that we have historically earned. Additionally, even if we are successful in our efforts to develop this new business, its operating results and margins will likely be lower than those of our core lines of business. Moreover, we expect that any success we experience in selling DSL service will, to some extent, be offset by reduced demand for additional lines when customers have been using their additional line for dial-up Internet access. Any disruption in our services could potentially expose us to a loss of customers or claims for damages. Because our services are critical to many of our customers’ businesses, any significant interruption in our services could result in a loss of customers or claims by our customers for indirect or consequential damages. Although the standard terms and conditions of our tariffs and customer contracts disclaim our liability for any such damages, a customer could still bring a lawsuit against us claiming lost profits or other consequential damages as the result of a service interruption or other web site or application problems that the customer may ascribe to us. We cannot assure you that a court would enforce any limitations on our liability. In such cases, we could be liable for substantial damage awards. We depend on third parties, over whom we have no control, to deliver our services. Because of the interconnected nature of the telecommunications industry, we depend heavily on other local telephone companies, long-distance carriers and numerous other third parties to deliver our services. CTSI is particularly dependent on cooperation from Verizon in order to provide local service to a portion of its customers, slightly less than half of whom are not exclusively served by our network. We do not have a long-term agreement with Verizon to provide us with the network connections we need, and the terms of our relationship with Verizon are subject to change as the result of regulatory agency and court decisions. In addition, we are dependent on easements, franchises and licenses from various private parties such as established telephone companies and other utilities, railroads, long-distance companies, state highway authorities, local governments and transit authorities, for access to aerial pole space, underground conduits and other rights-of-way in order to construct and operate our networks. The failure to maintain the necessary third party arrangements on acceptable terms would have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. 12 If future acquisitions or business combinations are not successful, we could suffer an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. From time to time we consider acquisitions of other businesses, some of which could be material to us. To the extent that we make acquisitions in the future, we may issue common stock that would dilute the ownership of our shareholders, incur debt, assume liabilities or incur large and possibly immediate write-offs. Acquisition transactions require a significant commitment of resources and are accompanied by a number of risks, including: • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • unanticipated expenses related to technology integration; • the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel; and • potential unknown liabilities or risks associated with acquired businesses. We cannot be sure that we will succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential business combinations and acquisitions. As a holding company, we will require dividends from subsidiaries to meet our cash requirements. We are a holding company whose principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries, and we do not generate any significant operating revenues of our own. Consequently, we depend on dividends, advances and payments from our subsidiaries (primarily CT) to fund our activities and meet our cash needs, including our debt service requirements. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. The ability of our subsidiaries to make certain payments or advances to us will depend on their operating results and will be subject to existing debt covenants, various business considerations and applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect to our indebtedness. The restrictive terms imposed by our current CoBank indebtedness may prevent us from achieving some of our business objectives. CT’s CoBank indebtedness contains various covenants that limit its ability to engage in the following activities: • borrow and place liens on assets; • make investments or make certain other restricted payments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • sell assets, make acquisitions or merge with or into other companies. Our ability to modify or comply with these covenants can be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could also result in a default even if we are able to pay our debt. A default under these covenants or covenants under other financing arrangements we enter into could result in the acceleration of required payments or the inability to receive financing in the future. Risks relating to our common stock Our governing documents and applicable laws and regulations may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and by-laws, Pennsylvania law and industry regulations could make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it difficult for shareholders to affect certain corporate actions. In addition, federal and Pennsylvania regulations regarding changes of control in our business are very restrictive. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that current shareholders deem beneficial. 13 If we sell shares of our common stock the market price of our common stock could decline. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 