ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Downturns in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry have in the past adversely affected the operating results and the value of our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, short product life-cycles and fluctuations in product supply and demand. During recent years we, as well as many others in our industry, have experienced significant declines in the pricing of, as well as demand for, products during the "down" portions of these cycles, which have sometimes been severe and prolonged. In the future, these downturns may prove to be as, or possibly even more, severe than past ones. Our ability to sell our products depends, in part, on continued demand in a large number of markets, including the mobile connectivity, automotive, telecommunications, computers/peripherals, defense and aerospace, space/satellite, industrial/commercial and medical markets. Each of these end-markets has in the past experienced reductions in demand, and future downturns in any of these markets may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition. The semiconductor business is subject to downward price pressure. The market for our products has been characterized by declining selling prices, and we anticipate that our average selling prices will decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted with any certainty. The pricing pressure in the semiconductor industry in past years has been due to a large number of factors, many of which were not easily foreseeable in advance, such as the Asian currency crisis, industry-wide excess manufacturing capacity, weak economic growth, the slowdown in capital spending that followed the "dot-com" collapse, the reduction in capital spending by telecom companies and satellite companies, and the effects of the tragic events of terrorism on September 11, 2001. In addition, our competitors have in the past, and may again in the future, lower prices in order to increase their market share. Continued downward price pressure in the industry may reduce our operating results and harm our financial and competitive position. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. The semiconductor industry, including most of the markets in which we do business, is highly competitive. We have numerous competitors in the various markets in which we sell products. Some of our current major competitors are Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., National Semiconductor Corp., Texas Instruments, Inc., Koninklijke Philips Electronics, ON Semiconductor Corp., Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Micrel Incorporated, International Rectifier Corp., Semtech Corp., Linear Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Diodes, Inc., Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., O2Micro International, Ltd. and Monolithic Power Systems, Inc. Some of our competitors in developing markets are Triquint Semiconductor, Inc., RF Micro Devices, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Anadigics, Inc. and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. Many of these companies are larger than we are and have greater resources than we have, and may therefore be better able than we are to penetrate new markets, pursue acquisition candidates, and withstand adverse economic or market conditions. We expect intensified competition from both these existing competitors and new entrants into our markets. To the extent we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be harmed. We may not be able to develop new technologies and products to satisfy changes in customer demand, and our competitors could develop products that decrease the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the semiconductor industry. Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and 11 enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. If we are unable to continue to reduce package sizes, improve manufacturing yields and expand sales, we may not remain competitive. The competitiveness of designs that we have introduced, including integrated circuits and subsystems such as class D audio subsystems for newly-introduced home theatre DVD players supporting surround sound, PDA backlighting subsystems, backlight control and power management solutions for the automotive notebook computer, monitors and the LCD TV market, LED driver solutions and power amplifiers for certain wireless LAN components, are subject to various risks and uncertainties that we are not able to control, including changes in customer demand and the introduction of new or superior technologies by others. Moreover, any failure by us in the future to develop new technologies or timely react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenues and a loss of our market share to our competitors. New technologies or products that we may develop may not lead to an incremental increase in revenues, and there is a risk that these new technologies or products will decrease the demand for our existing products and result in an offsetting reduction in revenues. In addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. A fundamental shift in technologies in our product markets could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within the industry. Compound semiconductor products may not successfully compete with silicon-based products. Our choices of technologies for development and future implementation may not reflect future market demand. The production of gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium gallium phosphide (InGaP), silicon germanium (SiGe), indium gallium arsenide phosphide (InGaAsP) or silicon carbide (SiC) integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits, and we believe it will continue to be more costly in the future. The costs differ because of higher costs of raw materials, lower production yields and higher unit costs associated with lower production volumes. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used in process technologies for integrated circuits, and these technologies continue to improve in performance. As a result, we must offer compound semiconductor products that provide vastly superior performance to that of silicon for specific applications in order for our products to be competitive with silicon products. If we do not offer compound semiconductor products that provide sufficiently superior performance to offset the cost differential and otherwise successfully compete with silicon-based products, our revenues and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Production delays related to new compound semiconductors could adversely affect our future results. We utilize process technology to manufacture compound semiconductors such as GaAs, InGaP, SiGe, SiC and InGaAsP primarily to manufacture semiconductor components. We are pursuing this development effort internally as well as with third party foundries. Our efforts sometimes may not result in commercially successful products. Certain of our competitors offer this capability and our customers may purchase our competitors' products instead of ours for this reason. In addition, the third party foundries that we use may delay delivery of, or even completely fail to deliver, technology and products to us. Our business and financial prospects could be materially and adversely affected by any failure by us to timely produce these products. We may be unable to retain our customers due in part to our inability to fulfil our customer demand and other factors Our ability to fulfil our customer demand for our products is and will continue to be dependent in part on our order volumes, long lead times with regard to our manufacturing and testing of certain high-reliability products. The lead time for manufacture and testing of high-reliability products can be many months. In response to this current demand, we have recently increased our capital expenditures 12 for production equipment as well as increased expenses for personnel. We may have delays or other difficulties in regard to increasing our production and in hiring and retaining qualified personnel. In addition, we have raised prices on certain products, primarily in our high-reliability end markets. Manufacturing delays and price increases may result in our customers reducing their purchase levels with us and/or seeking alternative solutions to meet their demand. In addition, the current demand may not continue in the future. Decreased sales as a result of a loss of one or more significant customers could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Seasonality in certain retail markets that our OEM customers address, such as LCD television, may cause fluctuations in our rate of revenue growth or financial results. Sales of LCD televisions at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December in anticipation of the holiday season. This seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. As a result, the manufacturers of LCD televisions are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of the purchase of the LCD televisions by consumers at retail. Due to the seasonality of the LCD television retail market, a large portion of our sales of products that are used in this market is made late during our fourth quarter or early in our first quarter. As a result, our sales of products for use in this market and rate of revenue growth in these products may fluctuate based on this seasonality. Fluctuations in sales of high-reliability products for use in implantable defibrillators may adversely affect our financial results. Although the market for implantable defibrillators is growing, customers in this market could reduce their reliance on outside suppliers. The implantable defibrillator market also fluctuates based on several other factors, such as product recalls and the need to secure regulatory approvals. Product recalls can from time to time accelerate sales to levels that cannot be sustained for long periods of time. The timing and qualification of new generations of products brought to market by OEM's can also result in fluctuations in order rates. We must commit resources to research and development, design, and production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. We sell products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Many of these purchase orders may be revised or cancelled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the research, design and production of products without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Any inability to sell a product after we devote significant resources to it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins and profits. Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular product's design and our experience in manufacturing that type of product. We have in the past experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely affected our gross margins and profits. The fabrication of semiconductor products is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous circuits on each wafer to be non-functional, thereby reducing yields. These difficulties include: •Defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto our wafers; 13 •Impurities in the materials used; •Contamination of the manufacturing environment; and •Equipment failure. Because a large portion of our costs of manufacturing is relatively fixed, and average selling prices for our products tend to decline over time, it is critical for us to improve the number of shippable circuits per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and have done so in the past. Moreover, our process technologies have primarily utilized standard silicon semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and production yields of compound integrated circuits have been relatively low compared with silicon circuit devices. We may be unable to continue to improve yields in the future, and we may suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. International operations and sales expose us to material risks and may increase the volatility of our operating results. Net sales from foreign markets represent a significant portion of total net sales. Our net sales to foreign customers represented approximately one-third of net sales for fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007. These sales were principally to customers in Europe and Asia. Foreign sales are classified as shipments to foreign destinations. We maintain facilities or contracts with entities in several foreign countries, including Korea, Japan, China, Ireland, Thailand, the Philippines, France, Taiwan, Macau, Israel and India. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: •Legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products; •Fluctuations in income tax expense and net income due to differing statutory tax rates in various domestic and international jurisdictions •Trade restrictions; •Transportation delays; •Communication interruptions; •Work stoppages or disruption of local labor supply and/or transportation services; •Economic and political instability; •Acts of war or terrorism, or health issues (such as Sudden Acute Respiratory Syndrome or Avian Influenza), which could disrupt our manufacturing and logistical activities; •Changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates; •Difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts generally; and •Currency exchange rate fluctuations, devaluation of foreign currencies, hard currencies shortages and exchange rate fluctuations. If political, military, transportation, health or other issues in foreign countries result in cancellations of customer orders or contribute to a general decrease in economic activity or corporate spending, or directly impact Microsemi's marketing, manufacturing, financial and logistics functions, our consolidated results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products, assets or intellectual 14 property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Therefore, the risk of piracy of our technology and products, which could result in a material adverse effect to our financial condition, operating results and cash flows, may be greater in those foreign countries. The concentration of the factories that service the semiconductor industry makes us more susceptible to events or disasters affecting the areas in which they are most concentrated. Relevant portions of the semiconductor industry, and the factories that serve or supply this industry, tend to be concentrated in certain areas of the world. Disruptive events, such as natural disasters, epidemics and health advisories like those related to Sudden Acute Respiratory Syndrome or Avian Influenza, power outages and infrastructure disruptions, and civil unrest and political instability in those areas, have from time to time in the past, and may again in the future, adversely affect the semiconductor industry. In particular, events such as these could adversely impact our ability to manufacture our products and result in a loss of sales and revenue. Similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees or the staff of our suppliers could impair the total volume of products that we are able to manufacture, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Some of our facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines. Our headquarters, our major operating facilities, and certain other critical business operations are located near known major earthquake fault lines. We presently do not have earthquake insurance. We could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. Delays in beginning production, implementing production techniques, resolving problems associated with technical equipment malfunctions, or issues related to government or customer qualification of facilities could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and our ability to realize cost savings. The Microsemi consolidated group's manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency. Our manufacturing processes, and those utilized by our third-party subcontractors, are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are sometimes modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. We have from time to time experienced difficulty in transitions of manufacturing processes to different facilities or adopting new manufacturing processes. As a consequence, we have at times experienced delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. Every silicon wafer fabrication facility utilizes very precise processing, and processing difficulties and reduced yields commonly occur, often as a result of contamination of the material. Reduced manufacturing yields can often result in manufacturing and shipping delays due to capacity constraints. Therefore, manufacturing problems can result in additional operating expense and delayed or lost revenues. In one instance which occurred in fiscal year 2005, Microsemi scrapped nonconforming inventory at a cost of approximately $1 million and experienced a delay of approximately two months in realizing approximately $1.5 million of net sales. In an additional instance which occurred in fiscal year 2004, Microsemi encountered a manufacturing problem concerning contamination in a furnace that resulted in the quarantine of approximately 1 million units at a cost of approximately $2 million. The identification and resolution of that manufacturing issue required four months of effort to investigate and resolve, which resulted in a concurrent delay in realizing approximately $2 million of net sales. Microsemi may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, upgrading existing facilities, relocating processes to different facilities, or changing its process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or an increase in manufacturing costs. 15 Interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting our materials, parts, equipment or subcontractors may impair our competitive position. Our manufacturing operations, and the outside manufacturing operations that we use increasingly, depend, in part, upon obtaining, in some instances, a governmental qualification of the manufacturing process, and in all instances, adequate supplies of materials including wafers, parts and equipment, including silicon, mold compounds and lead frames, on a timely basis from third parties. Some of the outside manufacturing operations we use are based in foreign countries. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we generally use materials, parts and equipment available from multiple suppliers, we have a limited number of suppliers for some materials, parts and equipment. While we believe that alternate suppliers for these materials, parts and equipment are available, an interruption could adversely affect our operations. Some of our products are manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors, some of whom are based in foreign countries. We generally do not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, we may not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality. Outside manufacturers generally will have longer lead times for delivery of products as compared with our internal manufacturing, and therefore, when ordering from these suppliers, we will be required to make longer-term estimates of our customers' current demand for products, and these estimates are difficult to make accurately. Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products. Any product delivery delays in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors were disrupted or terminated. In addition, these subcontractors must be qualified by the U.S. government or customers for high-reliability processes. Historically the Defense Supply Center Columbus (DSCC) has rarely qualified any foreign manufacturing or assembly lines for reasons of national security; therefore, our ability to move certain manufacturing offshore may be limited or delayed. We depend on third party subcontractors in Asia for wafer fabrication, assembly and packaging of an increasing portion of our products. Currently, we utilize third-party subcontractors for approximately 30% of our assembly and packaging requirements and 13% of our wafer fabrication. We expect that these percentages may increase to as much as 35% and 20%, respectively, in the next fiscal year due, in part, to the manufacture of our next-generation products by third party subcontractors in Asia. The packaging of our products is performed by a limited group of subcontractors and some of the raw materials included in our products are obtained from a limited group of suppliers. Disruption or termination of any of these sources could occur and such disruptions or terminations could harm our business and operating results. In the event that any of our subcontractors were to experience financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties resulting in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, our operating results could suffer until alternate qualified subcontractors, if any, were to become available and active. Fixed costs may reduce operating results if our sales fall below expectations. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations for future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect our operating results. This challenge could be made even more difficult if lead times between orders and shipments are shortening. 16 Reliance on government contracts for a portion of our sales could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Some of our sales are derived from customers whose principal sales are to the United States Government. These sales are derived from direct and indirect business with the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, and other U.S. government agencies. Future sales are subject to the uncertainties of governmental appropriations and national defense policies and priorities. If we experience significant reductions or delays in procurements of our products by the U.S. government or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Generally, the U.S. government and its contractors and subcontractors may terminate their contracts with us for cause or for convenience. We have in the past experienced one termination of a contract due to the termination of the underlying government contracts. All government contracts are also subject to price renegotiation in accordance with the U.S. Government Renegotiation Act. By reference to such contracts, all of the purchase orders we receive that are related to government contracts are subject to these possible events. There is no guarantee that we will not experience contract terminations or price renegotiations of government contracts in the future. Microsemi's aggregate net sales to defense markets represented approximately 30% in fiscal years 2005, 2006 and 2007. From time to time, we have experienced declining defense-related sales, primarily as a result of contract award delays and reduced defense program funding. The timing and amount of an increase, if any, in defense-related business is uncertain. In the past, expected increases in defense-related spending has occurred at a rate that has been slower than expected. Our prospects for additional defense-related sales may be adversely affected in a material manner by numerous events or actions outside our control. There may be unanticipated costs associated with adding to or supplementing our manufacturing capacity. We anticipate that future growth of our business could require increased manufacturing capacity on our part and on the part of certain outside foundries, assembly shops, or testing facilities for some of our integrated circuit products or other products. Expansion activities are subject to a number of risks, including: •Unavailability or late delivery of the advanced, and often customized, equipment used in the production of our specialized products; •Delays in bringing new production equipment on-line; •Delays in supplying satisfactory designs or products to our existing customers; and •Unforeseen environmental, engineering or manufacturing qualification problems relating to existing or new facilities. These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of any expansion of our capacity. Failure to manage consolidation of operations effectively could adversely affect our margins and earnings. Our ability to successfully offer and sell our products requires effective planning and management processes. Our Capacity Optimization Enhancement Program, with consolidations and realignments of operations, and expected future growth, may place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, including our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems, procedures and information technology. In addition, we will need to continue to train and manage our workforce worldwide. Any unmet challenges in that regard could negatively affect our results of operations. 17 We may be unable to successfully integrate acquired companies and personnel with existing operations. We have in the past acquired a number of businesses or companies, additional product lines and assets, and we may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines with existing operations, or if integration is more difficult or more costly than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if the effect of any acquisitions on the Microsemi consolidated group's financial results is dilutive or is below the market's or financial analysts' expectations. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from the acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: •Unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company; •Conforming the acquired company's standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; •Coordinating new product and process development; •Hiring additional management and other critical personnel; •Increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; •Difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; •Other difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products; •Diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; and •Adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers. In connection with acquisitions, we may: •Use a significant portion of our available cash; •Issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders' percentage ownership; •Incur substantial debt; •Incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown; •Incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangibles; and •Incur large, immediate accounting write-offs. There can be no assurance that the benefits of any acquisitions will outweigh the attendant costs, and if they do not, our results of operations and stock price may be adversely affected. We have closed, combined, sold or disposed of certain subsidiaries or divisions, which in the past has reduced our sales volume and resulted in restructuring costs. In October 2003, we announced the consolidation of the manufacturing operations of Microsemi Corp. -Santa Ana, of Santa Ana, California into some of our other facilities. The Santa Ana facility, whose manufacturing represented approximately 20% and 13% of our annual net sales in fiscal years 2003 and 2004, respectively, had approximately 380 employees and occupied 123,000 square feet. In April 2005, we announced the consolidation of the high-reliability products operations of Microsemi Corp. - Colorado of Bloomfield, Colorado ("Broomfield") into some of our other facilities Broomfield represented approximately 3% of our annual net sales in fiscal year 2007, had approximately 70 employees and occupied a 130,000 square foot owned facility. 18 We may make further specific determinations to consolidate, close or sell additional facilities, which could be announced at any time. Possible adverse consequences resulting from or related to such announcements may include various accounting charges such as for idle capacity, an inventory buildup in preparation for the transition of manufacturing, disposition costs, severance costs, impairments of goodwill and possibly an immediate loss of revenues, and other items in addition to normal or attendant risks and uncertainties. We may be unsuccessful in any of our current or future efforts to consolidate our business into a fewer number of facilities. Our plans to minimize or eliminate any loss of revenues during consolidation may not be achieved. We face major technical challenges in regard to transferring component manufacturing between locations. Before a transfer of manufacturing, we must be finished qualifying the new facility appropriately with the U.S. government or certain customers. While we plan generally to retain all of the revenues and income of those operations by transferring the manufacturing elsewhere within Microsemi's subsidiaries, our plans may change at any time based on reassessment of the alternatives and consequences. While we hope to benefit overall from increased gross margins and increased capacity utilization rates at remaining operations, the remaining operations will need to bear the corporate administrative and overhead costs, which are charges to income that had been allocated to the discontinued business units. Moreover, delays in effecting our consolidations could result in greater than anticipated costs incurred to achieve the hoped for longer-range savings. Any failure by us to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to use certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete. We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our principal products. We do not have significant patent protection on many aspects of our technology. The protection of some of our technology as "trade secrets" will not necessarily protect us from all uses by other persons of our technology, or their use of technology that is similar or superior to that which is embodied in our trade secrets. In addition, others may be able to independently duplicate or exceed our technology in whole or in part. In the instances in which we hold patents or patent licenses, such as with respect to some circuit components for notebook computers and LCD TVs, any patents held by us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under any patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Patents often provide only narrow protection and require public disclosure of information that may otherwise be subject to trade secret protection. In addition, patents eventually expire and are not renewable. Obtaining or protecting our proprietary rights may require us to defend claims of intellectual property infringement by our competitors. We could also become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed or are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others with or without our prior awareness of the existence of those third-party rights, if any. Litigation in connection with our intellectual property, whether instituted by us or others, could be very costly and distract management and other resources from our business. We are currently involved in certain patent litigation to protect our patents and patent rights, which could cause legal costs to increase above normal levels over the next several years. It is not possible to estimate the exact amounts of these costs, but it is possible that these costs could have a negative effect on our future results. Moreover, if any infringements, real or imagined, happen to exist, arise or are claimed in the future, we may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent owners, discontinue or change our processes or products or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. We may not be successful in such efforts, or such licenses may not be available under reasonable terms. Any failure by us to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 19 Our products may be found to be defective or hazardous and we may not have sufficient liability insurance. There is at any time a risk that our products may be found to be defective or to contain, without the customer's knowledge, certain prohibited hazardous chemicals after we have already shipped the products in volume, perhaps requiring a product replacement or recall. We may be subject to product returns that could impose substantial costs and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our aerospace (including aircraft), defense, medical and satellite businesses in particular expose us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of high-reliability electronic components for critical applications. Production of many of these products is sensitive to minute impurities, which can be introduced inadvertently in manufacture. Any production mistake can result in large and unanticipated product returns, product liability and warranty liability. Environmental regulations have imposed on every major participant in the electronics industry a new burden of determining and tracking the presence and quantity of certain chemicals in the content of supplies we buy and add to our products for sale and to inform in turn our customers about each of our finished goods' relevant chemical contents. The management and execution of this process is very challenging, and mistakes in this information gathering process could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to product liability claims with respect to our products. Our product liability insurance coverage may be insufficient to pay all such claims. In addition, product liability insurance may become too costly for us to maintain or may become completely unavailable to us in the future. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Environmental liabilities could adversely impact our financial position. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor manufacturing processes or in our finished goods. Under recent environmental regulations, we are responsible for determining whether certain toxic metals or certain other toxic chemicals are present in any given components we purchase and in each given product we sell. These environmental regulations have required us to expend a portion of our resources and capital on relevant compliance programs. In addition, under other laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our current or former properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Also, we may be subject to additional common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with existing or future environmental laws or regulations could subject us to significant liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from, within or through any such property, which may give rise to claims against us. Third parties who are responsible for contamination may not have funds, or may not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us jointly with them under environmental laws and regulations. 20 In Broomfield, Colorado, the owner of a property located adjacent to a manufacturing facility owned by one of our subsidiaries, Microsemi Corp. - Colorado had notified the subsidiary and other parties of a claim that contaminants migrated to his property, thereby diminishing its value. In August 1995, the subsidiary, together with Coors Porcelain Company, FMC Corporation and Siemens Microelectronics, Inc. (former owners of the manufacturing facility), agreed to settle the claim and to indemnify the owner of the adjacent property for remediation costs. Although TCE and other contaminants previously used by former owners at the facility are present in soil and groundwater on the subsidiary's property, we vigorously contest any assertion that the subsidiary caused the contamination. In November 1998, we signed an agreement with the three former owners of this facility whereby they have 1) reimbursed us for $530,000 of past costs, 2) assumed responsibility for 90% of all future clean-up costs, and 3) promised to indemnify and protect us against any and all third-party claims relating to the contamination of the facility. An Integrated Corrective Action Plan was submitted to the State of Colorado. Sampling and management plans were prepared for the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment. State and local agencies in Colorado are reviewing current data and considering study and cleanup options. The most recent forecast estimated that the total project cost, up to the year 2020, would be approximately $5,300,000; accordingly, we recorded a one-time charge of $530,000 for this project in fiscal year 2003. There has not been any significant development since September 28, 2003. Litigation could adversely impact our financial position. We are involved in various pending litigation matters, arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of our business, including from time to time litigation relating to employment matters, commercial transactions, contracts, and environmental matters. Litigation is inherently uncertain and unpredictable. An unfavorable resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to attract and retain the services of our executive officers or other key management or technical personnel. We could potentially lose the services of any of our senior management personnel at any time due to a variety of factors that could include death, incapacity, military service, personal issues, retirement, resignation or competing employers. Our ability to execute current plans could be adversely affected by such a loss. We may fail to attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel required to continue to operate our business successfully. Personnel with the expertise necessary for our business are scarce and competition for personnel with proper skills is intense. Also, attrition in personnel can result from, among other things, changes related to acquisitions, retirement and disability. We may not be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, particularly at such times in the future as we may need to do so to fill a key position. If we are unable to continue to retain existing executive officers or other key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may have increasing difficulty attracting and retaining qualified outside Board members. The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them in connection with their positions with publicly-held companies. Outside directors are becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors and officers liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending shareholder claims. Directors and officers liability insurance is expensive and difficult to obtain. Recently, the SEC and the 21 NASDAQ Stock Market have imposed higher independence standards and certain special requirements on directors of public companies. Accordingly, it may become increasingly difficult to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on our Board. Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of Microsemi that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our Shareholder Rights Plan could make more difficult an acquisition of Microsemi by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. These provisions include: •The Shareholder Rights Plan, which provides that an acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding shares without our Board's approval or ratification results in the exercisability of the Right accompanying each share of our common stock, thereby entitling the holder to purchase 1/4,000th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for $100, resulting in dilution to the acquirer because each Right under some circumstances entitles the holder upon exercise to receive securities or assets valued at $200 and under other circumstances entitles the holder to ten (10) times the amount of any dividends or distributions on our common stock; •Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, without board approval until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; and •The authorization in the certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover or in a way that may dilute an investment in our common stock. In connection with our Shareholder Rights Plan, each share of our common stock, par value $0.20, also entitles the holder to one redeemable and cancellable Right (not presently exercisable), as adjusted from time to time, to a given fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, at a given exercise price, as adjusted from time to time under the terms and conditions as set forth in a Shareholder Rights Agreement. The existence of the Rights may make it more difficult or impracticable for hostile change of control of us, which therefore may affect the anticipated return on an investor's investment in our common stock. The volatility of our stock price could affect the value of an investment in our stock and our future financial position. The market price of our stock has fluctuated widely. Between October 2, 2006 and September 30, 2007, the market sale price of our common stock ranged between a low of $16.06 and a high of $28.07. The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. We may not be able to sustain or increase the value of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to retain personnel with stock incentives, to acquire businesses or assets in exchange for stock and/or to conduct future financing activities with or involving our common stock. We may not make the sales that are suggested by our order rates, backlog or book-to-bill ratio, and our book-to-bill ratio may be affected by product mix. Prospective investors should not place undue reliance on our book-to-bill ratios or changes in book-to-bill ratios. We determine bookings based on orders that are scheduled for delivery within 12 months. However, lead times for the release of purchase orders depend, in part, upon the scheduling practices of individual customers, and delivery times of new or non-standard products can be 22 affected by scheduling factors and other manufacturing considerations. The rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month. Customers frequently change their delivery schedules or cancel orders. We have in the past experienced long lead times for some of our products which may have therefore resulted in orders in backlog being duplicative of other orders in backlog, which would increase backlog without resulting in additional revenues. Because of long lead times in certain products, our book-to-bill ratio may not be an indication of sales in subsequent periods. Our inventory levels have risen, which adversely affects cash flow. Our inventory levels have recently risen. An increased inventory level adversely affects cash flow. The primary factor contributing to the increase in our inventory levels is work in progress in our satellite products because our satellite products require very long lead times for testing. A second factor impacting our inventory build up is the planned consolidation of our manufacturing operations between facilities. We built inventory cushions during the transition of manufacturing between facilities in order to maintain an uninterrupted supply of product. Obsolescence of any inventory could result in adverse effects on our future results of operations and future revenue. There may be some potential effects of system outages. We face risks from electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. We rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties to manage our operations efficiently and effectively. Any of these are subject to failure. System-wide or local failures that affect our information processing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, insurance coverage does not generally protect from normal wear and tear, which can affect system performance. Any applicable insurance coverage for an occurrence could prove to be inadequate. Coverage may be or become unavailable or inapplicable to any risks then prevalent. We are upgrading and integrating, and have plans to upgrade and integrate further our enterprise information systems, and these efforts may cause additional strains on personnel and system resources or may result in potential system outages. Our accounting policies and estimates have a material effect on the financial results we report. Significant accounting policies and estimates have a material effect on our calculations and estimations of amounts in our financial statements. Our operating results and balance sheets may be adversely affected either to the extent that actual results prove to be materially lower than previous accounting estimates or to the extent that accounting estimates are revised adversely. We base our critical accounting policies, including our policies regarding revenue recognition, reserves for returns, rebates, price protections, and bad debt and inventory valuation, on various estimates and subjective judgments that we may make from time to time. The judgments made can significantly affect net income and our balance sheets. We are required to make significant judgments concerning inventory, and whether it becomes obsolete or excess, and concerning impairments of long-lived assets and also of goodwill. Our judgments, estimates and assumptions are subject to change at any time. In addition, our accounting policies may change at any time as a result of changes in generally accepted accounting principles as they apply to us or changes in other circumstances affecting us. Changes in accounting policy have affected and could further affect, in each case materially and adversely, our results of operations or financial position. In fiscal year 2003, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $14.7 million which was a transition charge upon our adoption of SFAS No. 142. 23 If, in the future, we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, or if our auditors conclude that our evaluation of internal control over financial reporting is not effective, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the companies' internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the filing company's internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company's financial statements must attest to the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting. There is a risk that in the future we may identify internal control deficiencies that suggest that our controls are no longer effective. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 