Item 1A. Risk FactorsRefer to “MD&A—Risk Management” for more detailed descriptions of the primary risks to our business and how we seek to manage those risks.The risks we face could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our past results or the results contemplated by forward-looking statements contained in this report. However, these are not the only risks we face. In addition to the risks we discuss below, we face risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial.RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESSThe future of our company is uncertain. There continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the future of our company, including how long the company will continue to exist in its current form, the extent of our role in the market, what form we will have, and what ownership interest, if any, our current common and preferred stockholders will hold in us after the conservatorship is terminated and whether we will continue to exist following conservatorship.In 2011, the Administration released a report to Congress on ending the conservatorships of the GSEs and reforming America’s housing finance market. The report provides that the Administration will work with FHFA to determine the best way to responsibly reduce Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s role in the market and ultimately wind down both institutions. The report also addresses three options for a reformed housing finance system. The report does not state whether or how the existing infrastructure or human capital of Fannie Mae may be used in the establishment of such a reformed system. The report emphasizes the importance of proceeding with a careful transition plan and providing the necessary financial support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac during the transition period. In August 2013, the White House released a paper confirming that a core principle of the Administration’s housing policy priorities is to wind down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac through a responsible transition. In January 2014, the White House issued a fact sheet reaffirming the Administration’s view that housing finance reform should include ending Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s business model.In a February 2012 letter to Congress, Edward DeMarco, then the Acting Director of FHFA, provided a strategic plan for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s conservatorships that included, among its three strategic goals, gradually contracting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s dominant presence in the marketplace while simplifying and shrinking our and Freddie Mac’s operations. In January 2014, Melvin L. Watt became the new Director of FHFA. It is uncertain whether Director Watt will make changes to FHFA’s strategic goals and objectives for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.In the first session of the current Congress, members of Congress introduced several bills to reform the housing finance system, including bills that, among other things, would require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to be wound down after a period of time and place certain restrictions on Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s activities prior to being wound down. We expect that Congress will continue to hold hearings and consider legislation on the future status of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, including proposals that would result in a substantial change to our business structure or our operations, or that involve Fannie Mae’s liquidation or dissolution. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. See “Business—Housing Finance Reform” for more information about the Administration’s report and paper, and Congressional proposals regarding GSE reform. Congress or FHFA may also consider legislation or regulation aimed at reducing our market share including, for example, significant changes to conforming loan limits that could reduce the number of loans available for us to acquire, which would affect the amount of guaranty fees we receive. For example, in December 2013, FHFA requested public input on a plan to gradually reduce the conforming loan limit for one-family residences. See “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—Charter Act—Loan Standards” for more information on FHFA’s proposal.Our dividend obligations on Treasury’s investment result in our retaining a limited and decreasing amount of our earnings each year until 2018. Beginning in 2018, we will no longer retain any of our earnings. As a result of our dividend obligation to Treasury, we will retain only a limited amount of our future earnings, and we will be obligated to pay Treasury each quarter the amount, if any, by which our net worth as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter exceeds an applicable capital reserve amount. This capital reserve amount is $2.4 billion for each quarterly dividend period in 2014 and decreases by $600 million annually until it reaches zero in 2018. Accordingly, our dividend obligations will result in our retaining a limited and decreasing amount of our earnings each year until 2018. Beginning in 2018, we will no longer retain any of our earnings, as the entire amount of our net worth at the end of each quarter will be required to be paid to Treasury. Because we are permitted to retain only a limited and decreasing amount of capital reserves through 2017, we may not have sufficient reserves to avoid a net worth deficit if we experience a comprehensive loss in a future quarter. In addition, beginning in 2018, we are not permitted to retain any capital reserves against losses in subsequent quarters; therefore, if we have a comprehensive loss for a quarter we will also have a net worth deficit for that quarter. For any quarter for which we have a net worth deficit, we will be required to draw funds from Treasury under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement in order to avoid being placed into receivership. As of the date of this filing, the maximum amount of remaining funding under the agreement is $117.6 billion.Our regulator is authorized or required to place us into receivership under specified conditions, which would result in the liquidation of our assets. Amounts recovered from the liquidation may not be sufficient to repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock or to provide any proceeds to common shareholders. FHFA is required to place us into receivership if the Director of FHFA makes a written determination that our assets are less than our obligations for a period of 60 days after the filing deadline for our Form 10-K or Form 10-Q with the SEC. Although Treasury committed to providing us funds in accordance with the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, if we need funding from Treasury to avoid triggering FHFA’s obligation, Treasury may not be able to provide sufficient funds to us within the required 60 days if it has exhausted its borrowing authority, if there is a government shutdown, or if the funding we need exceeds the amount available to us under the agreement. In addition, we could be put into receivership at the discretion of the Director of FHFA at any time for other reasons set forth in the GSE Act, including if we are critically undercapitalized or if we are undercapitalized and have no reasonable prospect of becoming adequately capitalized.A receivership would terminate the conservatorship. In addition to the powers FHFA has as our conservator, the appointment of FHFA as our receiver would terminate all rights and claims that our shareholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter arising from their status as shareholders or creditors, except for their right to payment, resolution or other satisfaction of their claims as permitted under the GSE Act. Unlike a conservatorship, the purpose of which is to conserve our assets and return us to a sound and solvent condition, the purpose of a receivership is to liquidate our assets and resolve claims against us. To the extent we are placed into receivership and do not or cannot fulfill our guaranty to the holders of our Fannie Mae MBS, the MBS holders could become unsecured creditors of ours with respect to claims made under our guaranty, to the extent the mortgage collateral underlying the Fannie Mae MBS is insufficient to satisfy the claims of the MBS holders. In the event of a liquidation of our assets, only after payment of the administrative expenses of the receiver and the immediately preceding conservator, the secured and unsecured claims against the company (including repaying all outstanding debt obligations), and the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock, would any liquidation proceeds be available to repay the liquidation preference on any other series of preferred stock. Finally, only after the liquidation preference on all series of preferred stock is repaid would any liquidation proceeds be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock. We believe that in the event of a liquidation of our assets it is unlikely that there would be sufficient proceeds to make any distribution to holders of our preferred stock or common stock, other than to Treasury as a holder of our senior preferred stock.Our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are unable to retain and hire qualified employees. Our business processes are highly dependent on the talents and efforts of our employees. The conservatorship, the uncertainty of our future, limitations on employee compensation and negative publicity concerning the GSEs have had and are likely to continue to have an adverse effect on our ability to retain and recruit well-qualified employees. Turnover in key management positions and challenges in integrating new management could harm our ability to manage our business effectively and ultimately adversely affect our financial performance.Actions taken by Congress, FHFA and Treasury to date, or that may be taken by them or other government agencies in the future, may have an adverse effect on the retention and recruitment of senior executives, management and other employees. We are subject to significant restrictions on the amount and type of compensation we may pay our executives and other employees under conservatorship. For example, in April 2012, the STOCK Act was enacted, which includes a provision that 43prohibits senior executives at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from receiving bonuses during any period of conservatorship on or after the date of enactment of the law. In addition, we are unable to offer equity-based compensation. The compensation we pay our senior executives is significantly less than executives’ compensation at many comparable companies. As discussed more fully in “Executive Compensation—Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Other Executive Compensation Considerations—Comparator Group and Role of Benchmark Data,” total target direct compensation for 2013 for each of our executives identified as a named executive was more than 30% below the market median for comparable firms and, in the case of our Chief Executive Officer, was more than 90% below the market median.Congress has considered other legislation in the past that would alter the compensation for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac employees. In 2011, the Financial Services Committee of the House of Representatives approved a bill that would put our employees on a federal government pay scale. Although this legislation was not passed by the House or the Senate, if similar legislation were to become law, our employees could experience a sudden and sharp decrease in compensation, which would harm our ability to retain and recruit employees.We face competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside of the financial services industry for qualified employees. Additionally, an improving economy may put additional pressures on turnover, as attractive opportunities become available to our employees. Our competitors for talent are generally not subject to the same limitations on employee compensation. The constraints on our compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract qualified candidates. While we engage in succession planning for our senior management and other critical positions and have been able to fill a number of important positions internally, our inability to offer market-based compensation may limit our ability to attract and retain qualified employees below the senior executive level that could fill our senior executive level positions if there is an increase in turnover.If we are unable to retain, promote and attract employees with the necessary skills and talent, we would face increased risks for operational failures. Our ability to conduct our business and our results of operations would likely be materially adversely affected.Our business activities are significantly affected by the conservatorship and the senior preferred stock purchase agreement. We are currently under the control of our conservator, FHFA, and we do not know when or how the conservatorship will terminate. As conservator, FHFA can direct us to enter into contracts or enter into contracts on our behalf, and generally has the power to transfer or sell any of our assets or liabilities. In addition, our directors do not have fiduciary duties to any person or entity except to the conservator. Accordingly, our directors are not obligated to consider the interests of the company, the holders of our equity or debt securities, or the holders of Fannie Mae MBS in making or approving a decision unless specifically directed to do so by the conservator. Because we are under the control of our conservator, our strategic and operational focus may not be consistent with the investment objectives of our investors. In addition, we may be required to engage in activities that are operationally difficult, costly to implement or unprofitable. For example, under the portfolio reduction requirement of our senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury, we may be required to dispose of assets at unfavorable prices or that may be more economical to hold. FHFA, as conservator, has determined that, while we are in conservatorship, we will be limited to continuing our existing core business activities and taking actions to advance the goals of the conservatorship. In 2012, FHFA’s then-Acting Director identified strategic goals for our and Freddie Mac’s conservatorships that included building a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market and gradually contracting our and Freddie Mac’s dominant presence in the marketplace, while simplifying and shrinking our operations. FHFA has directed us to implement specific objectives to implement these strategic goals and we are devoting significant resources to meeting these objectives. In view of FHFA’s strategic goals, we expect that our objectives and business activities will continue to change, possibly significantly, including in pursuit of our public mission and other non-financial objectives. In addition, in January 2014, Melvin L. Watt became the new Director of FHFA, which could result in changes to FHFA’s strategic goals for our conservatorship.The senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury includes a number of covenants that significantly restrict our business activities. We cannot, without the prior written consent of Treasury: pay dividends (except on the senior preferred stock); sell, issue, purchase or redeem Fannie Mae equity securities; sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of assets in specified situations; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on arm’s-length terms or in the ordinary course of business; issue subordinated debt; or incur indebtedness that would result in our aggregate indebtedness exceeding 120% of the amount of mortgage assets we are allowed to own. In deciding whether to consent to any request for approval it receives from us under the agreement, Treasury has the right to withhold its consent for any reason and is not required by the 44agreement to consider any particular factors, including whether or not management believes that the transaction would benefit the company. Pursuant to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, the maximum allowable amount of mortgage assets we are permitted to own as of December 31, 2013 was $552.5 billion, and on each December 31 thereafter, our mortgage assets may not exceed 85% of the maximum allowable amount that we were permitted to own as of December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year until the amount of our mortgage assets reaches $250 billion. This limit on the amount of mortgage assets we are permitted to hold could constrain the amount of delinquent loans we purchase from single-family MBS trusts, which could increase our costs. Actions taken by the conservator and the restrictions set forth in the senior preferred stock purchase agreement could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Several lawsuits have been filed by preferred and common stockholders of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac against the United States, Treasury and/or FHFA challenging actions taken by the defendants relating to the senior preferred stock purchase agreements and the conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We are not a party to these lawsuits, except for the In re Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement Class Action and Arrowood Indemnity Company suits described in “Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies” and the Fisher v. United States of America suit described in “Legal Proceedings.” The legal claims being advanced by one or more of these lawsuits include challenges to the net worth sweep dividend provisions of the senior preferred stock that were implemented pursuant to the August 2012 amendments to the agreements, as well as to FHFA’s decision to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to draw funds from Treasury in order to pay dividends to Treasury during conservatorship. We cannot predict the course or the outcome of these lawsuits, or the actions the U.S. government (including Treasury or FHFA) may take in response to any ruling or finding in any of these lawsuits. Accordingly, we cannot predict what impact, if any, these lawsuits will have on our business.The conservatorship and investment by Treasury have had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our common and preferred shareholders. We do not know when or how the conservatorship will terminate. Moreover, even if the conservatorship is terminated, we remain subject to the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, senior preferred stock and warrant, which can only be canceled or modified with the consent of Treasury. The conservatorship and investment by Treasury have had, and will continue to have, material adverse effects on our common and preferred shareholders, including the following: No voting rights during conservatorship. The rights and powers of our shareholders are suspended during the conservatorship. The conservatorship has no specified termination date. During the conservatorship, our common shareholders do not have the ability to elect directors or to vote on other matters unless the conservator delegates this authority to them. Dividends to common and preferred shareholders, other than to Treasury, have been eliminated. Under the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, dividends may not be paid to common or preferred shareholders (other than on the senior preferred stock) without the prior written consent of Treasury, regardless of whether we are in conservatorship. In addition, as described in a risk factor above, the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement and the senior preferred stock ultimately require the payment of our entire net worth to Treasury. As a result, our net income is not available to common shareholders or preferred shareholders other than Treasury as holder of the senior preferred stock. Liquidation preference of senior preferred stock is high and could increase. The senior preferred stock ranks prior to our common stock and all other series of our preferred stock, as well as any capital stock we issue in the future, as to both dividends and distributions upon liquidation. Accordingly, if we are liquidated, the senior preferred stock is entitled to its then-current liquidation preference, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends, before any distribution is made to the holders of our common stock or other preferred stock. The liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock is currently $117.1 billion and would increase if we draw on Treasury’s funding commitment in any future quarters or if we do not pay dividends owed on the senior preferred stock. If we are liquidated, we believe it is unlikely that there would be sufficient funds remaining after payment of amounts to our creditors and to Treasury as holder of the senior preferred stock to make any distribution to holders of our common stock and other preferred stock. Exercise of the Treasury warrant would substantially dilute investment of current shareholders. If Treasury exercises its warrant to purchase shares of our common stock equal to 79.9% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis, the ownership interest in the company of our then existing common shareholders will be substantially diluted, and we would thereafter have a controlling shareholder. No longer managed for the benefit of shareholders. Because we are in conservatorship, we are no longer managed with a strategy to maximize shareholder returns. 45For additional description of the restrictions on us and the risks to our shareholders, see “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements.” Basel III and U.S. capital and liquidity rules could materially and adversely affect demand by banks for our debt and MBS securities in the future and otherwise could affect the future business practices of our customers and counterparties. Basel III is a set of revised global regulatory standards developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision establishing minimum bank capital and liquidity requirements. In October 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued a proposed rule setting minimum liquidity standards for large U.S. banks generally in accordance with Basel III standards. Under the proposed rule, U.S. banks subject to the standards would be required to hold a minimum level of high-quality liquid assets based on projections of their cash needs over a 30-day stress scenario. The debt and mortgage-related securities of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the other GSEs would be permitted to count toward only up to 40% of the banks’ high-quality liquid asset requirement, and then only after applying a 15% discount to the market value of those securities.U.S. banks currently hold large amounts of our outstanding debt and Fannie Mae MBS securities, and current U.S. banking regulations do not limit the amount of these securities that banks may count toward their liquidity requirements. Accordingly, if this rule is adopted as currently proposed, it may materially adversely affect demand by banks for Fannie Mae debt securities and MBS in the future, which could adversely affect the price of those securities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth.In addition, Basel III’s revisions to international capital requirements could limit some lenders’ ability to count the value of their rights to service mortgage loans as assets in meeting their regulatory capital requirements, which may reduce the economic value of mortgage servicing rights. As a result, a number of our customers and counterparties may change their business practices, including reducing the amount of loans they service or exiting servicing altogether. We may incur additional credit-related expenses, particularly in light of the poor credit performance of loans we acquired prior to 2009. Some of the mortgage loans we acquired prior to 2009 have performed poorly, which increased our credit losses and credit-related expenses, and our risk of future credit losses and credit-related expenses, as a result of borrowers failing to make required payments of principal and interest on their mortgage loans. In addition, although home prices have improved in each of the last two years on a national basis, a portion of the loans in our single-family guaranty book of business continues to have an estimated mark-to-market LTV ratio greater than 100%, which increases the likelihood that either these borrowers will strategically default on their mortgage loans even if they have the ability to continue to pay the loans or that distressed homeowners will sell their homes in a “short sale” for significantly less than the unpaid amount of the loans. We present detailed information about the risk characteristics of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business in “MD&A—Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Mortgage Credit Risk Management,” and we present detailed information on our 2013 credit-related expenses, credit losses and results of operations in “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations.” The credit performance of loans in our guaranty book of business, particularly those in our legacy book of business, could deteriorate in the future, particularly if we experience national and regional declines in home prices, weakening economic conditions and high unemployment. We may experience further losses and write-downs relating to our investment securities. We have experienced significant fair value losses relating to our investment securities and recorded significant other-than-temporary impairment write-downs of some of our available-for-sale securities. We may experience additional other-than-temporary impairment write-downs of our investments in private-label mortgage-related securities. See “Note 5, Investments in Securities” for more information on our investments in private-label mortgage-related securities backed by Alt-A and subprime mortgage loans. If the market for securities we hold in our investment portfolio is not liquid, we must use a greater amount of management judgment to value these securities. Later valuations and any price we ultimately would realize if we were to sell these securities could be materially lower than the estimated fair value at which we carry them on our balance sheet. Any of the above factors could require us to record additional write-downs in the value of our investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could materially adversely affect our business, impair our liquidity, cause financial losses and harm our reputation. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could disrupt our business or have a material adverse effect on our risk management, liquidity, financial statement reliability, financial condition and results of operations. Such a 46failure could result in legislative or regulatory intervention, liability to customers, financial losses and damage to our reputation. For example, our business is highly dependent on our ability to manage and process, on a daily basis, an extremely large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets and in an environment in which we must make frequent changes to our core processes in response to changing external conditions. These transactions are subject to various legal, accounting and regulatory standards. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions. In addition, we rely on information provided by third parties in processing many of our transactions; that information may be incorrect or we may fail to properly manage or analyze it. We rely upon business processes that are highly dependent on people, legacy technology and the use of numerous complex systems and models to manage our business and produce books and records upon which our financial statements are prepared. This reliance increases the risk that we may be exposed to financial, reputational or other losses as a result of inadequately designed internal processes or systems, or failed execution of our systems. While we continue to enhance our technology, operational controls and organizational structure in order to reduce our operational risk, these actions may not be effective to manage these risks and may create additional operational risk as we execute these enhancements. In addition, our increased use of third-party service providers for some of our business functions increases the risk that an operational failure by a third party will adversely affect us. We also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearinghouses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities and derivatives transactions. In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses. This consolidation and interconnectivity increases the risk of operational failure, on both an individual basis and an industry-wide basis, as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions or manage our exposure to risk, and could have a significant adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition, net worth and results of operations. Since the conservatorship began, we have experienced, and we expect we may continue to experience, substantial changes in our management, employees and business structure and practices. These changes could increase our operational risk and result in business interruptions and financial losses. In addition, due to events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, our systems could fail to operate properly, which could lead to financial losses, business disruptions, legal and regulatory sanctions and reputational damage. Additionally, nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the Washington, DC and Dallas, Texas metropolitan areas, work in relatively close proximity to one another. Notwithstanding the business continuity plans and facilities that we have in place, given that most of our facilities and employees are located in the Washington, DC and Dallas metropolitan areas, a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, natural disaster, extreme weather event or disease pandemic could overwhelm our recovery capabilities. Although we are currently building an out-of-region data center for disaster recovery in order to increase the geographic diversity of our business continuity plans, even when this new facility is operational, most of our employees will still be located in the Washington, DC and Dallas metropolitan areas. If a regional disruption occurs and our employees are not able to occupy our facilities, work remotely, or communicate with or travel to other locations, we may not be able to successfully implement our contingency plans, which could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and lead to financial losses.A breach of the security of our systems, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber attacks, could disrupt our business or result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential information, which could result in significant losses, reputational damage, litigation, and regulatory fines or penalties.Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks and with our business partners, including confidential or personal information that is subject to privacy laws, regulations or customer-imposed controls. Information security risks for large institutions like us have significantly increased in recent years and from time to time we have been, and likely will continue to be, the target of attempted cyber attacks and other information security breaches. To date, we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber attacks or other information security breaches, but we could suffer such losses in the future.Although we take measures to protect the security of our computer systems, software and networks, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to cyber attack, breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more such events were to occur, this could jeopardize or result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse or corruption of our or our customers’, our counterparties’ or borrowers’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our customers’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ 47operations. This could result in significant losses, reputational damage, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures arising from operational and security risks. We currently do not maintain insurance coverage relating to cybersecurity risks. Third parties with which we do business may also be sources of cybersecurity or other technological risks. We outsource certain functions and these relationships allow for the storage and processing of our information, as well as customer, counterparty and borrower information. While we engage in actions to reduce our exposure resulting from outsourcing, such as performing onsite security control assessment and limiting third-party access to the lowest privileged level necessary to perform job functions, ongoing threats may result in unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data or other cybersecurity incidents with increased costs and consequences to us such as those described above.Our implementation of FHFA directives and other initiatives may increase our operational risk and result in one or more significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting.The magnitude of the many new initiatives we are undertaking, including as part of our effort to help build a sustainable housing finance system, may increase our operational risk. Some actions we have been directed to take by FHFA also present significant operational challenges for us, and we believe that implementing these directives will increase our operational risk and could result in one or more significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in a future period. In April 2012, FHFA issued supervisory guidance requiring that we change our method of accounting for delinquent loans. This directive, which is described in “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—FHFA Advisory Bulletin Regarding Framework for Adversely Classifying Loans,” creates significant operational burdens and costs for us. We are also currently working on implementing a number of other FHFA directives and initiatives that may increase our operational burdens and our costs. In addition, we are working with FHFA and Freddie Mac on a multi-year effort to build a common securitization platform to eventually replace some of our current securitization infrastructure. This initiative, in coordination with related internal infrastructure upgrades, is expected to result in significant changes to our current systems and operations, and involves a high degree of complexity.While implementation of each individual initiative and directive creates operational challenges, implementing multiple initiatives and directives during the same time period significantly increases these challenges. Implementing these initiatives and directives requires a substantial time commitment from management and the employees responsible for implementing the changes, limiting the amount of time they can spend on other corporate priorities. In addition, some of these initiatives and directives require significant changes to our accounting methods and systems. Due to the operational complexity associated with these changes and the limited time periods for implementing them, we believe there is a significant risk that implementing these changes could result in one or more significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in a future period. If this were to occur, we could experience material errors in our reported financial results. In addition, FHFA, Treasury, other agencies of the U.S. government or Congress may require us to take actions in the future that could further increase our operational risk.We may undertake efforts that adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. In conservatorship our business is no longer managed with a strategy to maximize shareholder returns while fulfilling our mission. Our conservator previously directed us to focus primarily on minimizing our credit losses from delinquent mortgages and providing assistance to struggling homeowners to help them remain in their homes. More recently, our conservator has announced strategic goals for our conservatorship that include building a new infrastructure for the secondary mortgage market and gradually contracting our dominant presence in the marketplace while simplifying and shrinking our operations. In pursuit of these or other goals prescribed by our conservator, we may take a variety of actions that could adversely affect our economic returns, possibly significantly, such as encouraging increased competition in our markets; modifying loans to defer principal, lower the interest rate or extend the maturity; or engaging in principal reduction. We are already taking some of these actions. These activities may have short- and long-term adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Other agencies of the U.S. government or Congress also may ask us to undertake significant efforts to support the housing and mortgage markets, as well as struggling homeowners. They may also ask us to take actions in support of other goals. For example, in December 2011 Congress enacted the TCCA under which, at the direction of FHFA, we increased the guaranty fee on all single-family residential mortgages delivered to us by 10 basis points effective April 1, 2012. This fee increase helps offset the cost of a two-month extension of the payroll tax cut from January 1, 2012 through February 29, 2012. FHFA and Treasury advised us to remit this fee increase to Treasury with respect to all loans acquired by us on or after April 1, 2012 48and before January 1, 2022, and to continue to remit these amounts to Treasury on and after January 1, 2022 with respect to loans we acquired before this date until those loans are paid off or otherwise liquidated. In addition, to meet our housing goals, a portion of the mortgage loans we acquire must be for low- and very-low income families, families in low-income census tracts and moderate-income families in minority census tracts or designated disaster areas. We may take actions to meet our housing goals obligations that could increase our credit losses and credit-related expense. We discuss our housing goals in “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—Housing Goals and Duty to Serve Underserved Markets.”As described in “Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies,” in July 2013, a lawsuit was filed against FHFA challenging its decision to suspend Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s contributions to HUD’s Housing Trust Fund. We cannot predict the course or the outcome of this lawsuit, or the actions FHFA may take in response. If we are required to contribute some or all of the amounts we would have contributed to the Housing Trust Fund in past years had FHFA not suspended these allocations or to begin contributing these amounts going forward, it would have an adverse impact on our financial results. See “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—The GSE Act—Affordable Housing Allocations” for a description of the GSE Act’s requirements relating to the Housing Trust Fund. Actions taken by state and local governments to address the housing crisis or increase revenues could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and net worth. Many state and local governments are seeking ways to address the effects of the housing crisis, including high levels of foreclosures. State and local governments are also seeking ways to address declining tax revenues. Some of the legislative, regulatory or litigation-related actions governments take to address these issues may adversely affect us by, for example, increasing our costs or affecting our ability to achieve our business goals efficiently and effectively.For example, a number of lawsuits have been filed against us challenging our right to claim an exemption, under our charter, from transfer taxes in connection with the recordation of deeds upon transfers of real property. Additional similar lawsuits could be filed against us, and taxing authorities in jurisdictions that do not normally impose a tax on the transfer of real property could also seek to impose transfer taxes on us. If we were to become subject to real property transfer taxes in a large number of states and localities, and if we were required to pay a number of years of past transfer taxes in these states and localities, it would increase our costs going forward and have an adverse effect on our financial results.In another example, a number of local governments are considering or may consider using eminent domain to seize mortgage loans and forgive principal on the loans. Such seizures, if they are successful, could result in further losses and write-downs relating to our investment securities and could increase our credit losses.These actions and others that state and local governments may pursue in the future could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and net worth.Limitations on our ability to access the debt capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and generate net interest income. Our ability to fund our business depends primarily on our ongoing access to the debt capital markets. The level of net interest income generated by our retained mortgage portfolio assets depends on how much lower our cost of funds is compared with what we earn on our mortgage assets. Market concerns about matters such as the extent of government support for our business, the future of our business (including future profitability, future structure, regulatory actions and GSE status) and the creditworthiness of the U.S. government could cause a severe negative effect on our access to the unsecured debt markets, particularly for long-term debt. We believe that our ability in recent years to issue debt of varying maturities at attractive pricing resulted from federal government support of us and the financial markets. As a result, we believe that our status as a GSE and continued federal government support is essential to maintaining our access to debt funding. Changes or perceived changes in federal government support of our business and the financial markets or our status as a GSE could materially and adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the government will continue to support us or the markets, or that our current level of access to debt funding will continue. In addition, due to our reliance on the U.S. government’s support, our access to debt funding also could be materially adversely affected by a change or perceived change in the creditworthiness of the U.S. government. Future changes or disruptions in the financial markets could significantly change the amount, mix and cost of funds we obtain, as well as our liquidity position. If we are unable to issue both short- and long-term debt securities at attractive rates and in amounts sufficient to operate our business and meet our obligations, it likely would interfere with the operation of our business and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and net worth. 49Our liquidity contingency plans may be difficult or impossible to execute during a liquidity crisis. We believe that our liquidity contingency plans may be difficult or impossible to execute during a liquidity crisis. If we cannot access the unsecured debt markets, our ability to repay maturing indebtedness and fund our operations could be eliminated or significantly impaired. In this event, our alternative sources of liquidity—consisting of our cash and other investments portfolio and the unencumbered mortgage assets in our retained mortgage portfolio—may not be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs. We believe that the amount of mortgage-related assets that we could successfully sell or borrow against in the event of a liquidity crisis or significant market disruption is substantially lower than the amount of mortgage-related assets we hold. Due to the large size of our portfolio of mortgage assets, current market conditions and the significant amount of distressed assets in our retained mortgage portfolio, there would likely be insufficient market demand for large amounts of these assets over a prolonged period of time, which would limit our ability to borrow against or sell these assets. To the extent that we are able to obtain funding by pledging or selling mortgage-related securities as collateral, we anticipate that a discount would be applied that would reduce the value assigned to those securities. Depending on market conditions at the time, this discount could result in proceeds significantly lower than the current market value of these securities and could thereby reduce the amount of financing we obtain. In addition, our primary source of collateral is Fannie Mae MBS that we own. In the event of a liquidity crisis in which the future of our company is uncertain, counterparties may be unwilling to accept Fannie Mae MBS as collateral. As a result, we may not be able to sell or borrow against these securities in sufficient amounts to meet our liquidity needs. A decrease in the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt could have an adverse effect on our ability to issue debt on reasonable terms, and would likely do so if such a decrease were not based on a similar action on the credit ratings of the U.S. government. A decrease in our credit ratings also could trigger additional collateral requirements under our derivatives contracts.Credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt, as well as the credit ratings of the U.S. government, are primary factors that could affect our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets. Credit ratings on our debt are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Actions by governmental entities impacting the support we receive from Treasury could adversely affect the credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt.As of February 13, 2014, our long-term debt was rated “AA+” by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”), “Aaa” by Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) and “AAA” by Fitch Ratings Limited (“Fitch”). Our Fitch long-term senior debt, short-term senior debt, and qualifying subordinated debt ratings were on “Rating Watch Negative.” A rating being placed on Rating Watch is typically event-driven and indicates there is a heightened probability of a rating change. Because we rely on the U.S. government for capital support, in recent years, when a rating agency has taken an action relating to the U.S. government’s credit rating, they have taken a similar action relating to our ratings at approximately the same time. S&P, Moody’s and Fitch have all indicated that they would likely lower their ratings on the debt of Fannie Mae and certain other government-related entities if they were to lower their ratings on the U.S. government. We currently cannot predict whether one or more of these rating agencies will downgrade our debt ratings in the future, nor can we predict the potential impact. Although S&P’s downgrade of our credit rating from “AAA” to “AA+” in August 2011 has not increased our borrowing costs or limited our access to the debt capital markets to date, an additional reduction in our credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on our access to debt funding or on the cost of our debt funding, and would likely do so if it were not based on a similar action on the credit ratings of the U.S. government.An additional reduction in our credit ratings may also trigger additional collateral requirements under our derivative contracts because a majority of our over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative contracts contain provisions that require our senior unsecured debt to maintain a minimum credit rating from S&P and Moody’s. If our senior unsecured debt credit ratings were downgraded to established thresholds in our OTC derivative contracts, which range from A+ to BBB+, we could be required to provide additional collateral to or terminate transactions with certain counterparties. The aggregate fair value of all OTC derivatives with credit-risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position as of December 31, 2013 was $2.1 billion, for which we posted collateral of $2.0 billion in the normal course of business. If our senior unsecured debt had been downgraded to AA or Aa1, or even to AA- or Aa2, we would not have been required to post any additional collateral under these agreements as of December 31, 2013. If all of the credit-risk-related contingency features underlying these agreements had been triggered, an additional $130 million would have been required either to be posted as collateral or to immediately settle our positions based on the individual agreements and our fair value position as of December 31, 2013. An additional reduction in our credit ratings also could cause derivatives clearing organizations or their members to demand that we post additional collateral for our OTC-cleared derivative contracts. Further, an additional reduction in our credit ratings may materially adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to conduct our normal business operations, our financial condition and 50our results of operations. Our credit ratings and ratings outlook are included in “MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Management—Liquidity Management—Credit Ratings.”One or more of our institutional counterparties may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us, resulting in financial losses, business disruption and decreased ability to manage risk. We face the risk that one or more of our institutional counterparties may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with mortgage servicers that service the loans we hold in our retained mortgage portfolio or that back our Fannie Mae MBS; mortgage sellers and servicers that are obligated to repurchase loans from us or reimburse us for losses in certain circumstances; third-party providers of credit enhancement on the mortgage assets that we hold in our retained mortgage portfolio or that back our Fannie Mae MBS, including mortgage insurers, lenders with risk sharing arrangements and financial guarantors; issuers of securities held in our cash and other investments portfolio; and derivatives counterparties. We may have multiple exposures to one counterparty as many of our counterparties provide several types of services to us. For example, our lender customers or their affiliates may also act as derivatives counterparties, mortgage servicers, custodial depository institutions or document custodians. Accordingly, if one of these counterparties were to become insolvent or otherwise default on its obligations to us, it could harm our business and financial results in a variety of ways. An institutional counterparty may default in its obligations to us for a number of reasons, such as changes in financial condition that affect its credit rating, a reduction in liquidity, operational failures or insolvency. Although the liquidity and financial condition of some of our institutional counterparties continued to improve in 2013, there is still significant risk to our business of defaults by these counterparties. Counterparty defaults or limitations on their ability to do business with us could result in significant financial losses or hamper our ability to do business, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. For example, failure by a significant seller or servicer counterparty, or a number of sellers or servicers, to fulfill repurchase obligations to us could result in a significant increase in our credit losses and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Many of the transactions we engage in with these counterparties expose us to credit risk relating to the possibility of a default by our counterparties. In addition, to the extent these transactions are secured, our credit risk may be exacerbated to the extent that the collateral we hold cannot be realized or can be liquidated only at prices too low to recover the full amount of our exposure. These losses could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We depend on our ability to enter into derivatives transactions in order to manage the duration and prepayment risk of our retained mortgage portfolio. If we lose access to our derivatives counterparties, it could adversely affect our ability to manage these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We may incur losses as a result of claims under our mortgage insurance policies not being paid in full or at all. We rely heavily on mortgage insurers to provide insurance against borrower defaults on single-family conventional mortgage loans with LTV ratios over 80% at the time of acquisition. Several of our mortgage insurer counterparties incurred losses in recent years, which increases the risk that these counterparties may fail to fulfill their obligations to pay in full our claims under insurance policies.PMI Mortgage Insurance Co. (“PMI”), Republic Mortgage Insurance Company (“RMIC”) and Triad Guaranty Insurance Corporation (“Triad”) are under various forms of supervised control by their state regulators and are in run-off. A mortgage insurer that is in run-off continues to collect renewal premiums and process claims on its existing insurance business, but no longer writes new insurance, which increases the risk that the mortgage insurer will pay claims only in part or fail to pay claims at all under existing insurance policies. Entering run-off may close off a source of profits and liquidity that may have otherwise assisted a mortgage insurer in paying claims under insurance policies, and could also cause the quality and speed of its claims processing to deteriorate. PMI and RMIC have been paying only a portion of policyholder claims and deferring the remaining portion. Currently, PMI is paying 55% of claims under its mortgage insurance policies in cash and is deferring the remaining 45%, and RMIC is paying 60% of claims in cash and deferring the remaining 40%. It is uncertain when, or if, PMI or RMIC will be permitted to begin paying deferred policyholder claims and/or increase or decrease the amount of cash they pay on claims. Effective December 1, 2013, Triad increased its cash payments on policyholder claims from 60% to 75%, and paid sufficient amounts of its outstanding deferred payment obligations to bring payment on those claims to 75%. It is uncertain whether Triad will be permitted in the future to pay any remaining deferred policyholder claims and/or increase or 51decrease the amount of cash they pay on claims. PMI, RMIC and Triad provided a combined $14.8 billion, or 14%, of our risk in force mortgage insurance coverage of our single-family guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013. From time to time we assess our mortgage insurer counterparties’ respective abilities to fulfill their obligations to us, and our loss reserves take into account this assessment. If our assessment indicates their ability to pay claims has deteriorated significantly or if our projected claim amounts have increased, it could result in an increase in our loss reserves and our credit losses. Changes in the mortgage industry may negatively impact our business. A number of our largest single-family mortgage seller and servicer counterparties have reduced or eliminated their purchases of mortgage loans from mortgage brokers and correspondent lenders. As a result, we are acquiring an increasing portion of our business volume directly from, and a larger portion of our servicing is being performed by, smaller or non-depository financial institutions that may not have the same financial strength, liquidity or operational capacity as our larger depository financial institution counterparties. Our top five lender customers in terms of single-family business acquisition volume, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 42% of our single-family business acquisition volume in 2013, compared with approximately 46% in 2012 and approximately 60% in 2011. Our five largest single-family mortgage servicers, including their affiliates, serviced approximately 49% of our single-family guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013, compared with approximately 57% as of December 31, 2012. The potentially lower financial strength, liquidity and operational capacity of smaller or non-depository mortgage sellers and servicers may negatively affect their ability to satisfy their repurchase or compensatory fee obligations or to service the loans on our behalf. In addition, some of our non-depository mortgage servicer counterparties have grown significantly in recent years, which could negatively impact their ability to effectively manage their servicing portfolios and increase their operational risk. The decrease in the concentration of our business with large depository financial institutions could increase both our institutional counterparty credit risk and our mortgage credit risk, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth.The loss of business volume from a key lender customer could adversely affect our business and result in a decrease in our revenues, especially if we are unable to replace the business volume that customer provided to us. Our ability to generate revenue from the purchase and securitization of mortgage loans depends on our ability to acquire a steady flow of mortgage loans from the originators of those loans. Although we are acquiring an increasing portion of our single-family business volume directly from smaller financial institutions, we continue to acquire a significant portion of our mortgage loans from several large mortgage lenders, with our top five lender customers in terms of single-family business acquisition volume, in the aggregate, accounting for approximately 42% of our single-family business acquisition volume in 2013. Accordingly, maintaining our current business relationships and business volumes with our top lender customers is important to our business. To the extent a key lender customer significantly reduces the volume or quality of mortgage loans that the lender delivers to us or that we are willing to buy from them, we could lose significant business volume that we might be unable to replace, which could adversely affect our business and result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, a significant reduction in the volume of mortgage loans that we securitize could reduce the liquidity of Fannie Mae MBS, which in turn could have an adverse effect on their market value.Our reliance on third parties to service our mortgage loans may impede our efforts to keep people in their homes and adversely affect the re-performance rate of loans we modify. Mortgage servicers, or their agents and contractors, typically are the primary point of contact for borrowers on our loans. We rely on these mortgage servicers to identify and contact troubled borrowers as early as possible, to assess the situation and offer appropriate options for resolving the problem and to successfully implement a solution. Over the past few years, the demands placed on experienced mortgage loan servicers to service delinquent loans have increased significantly across the industry, straining servicer capacity. To the extent that mortgage servicers are hampered by limited resources or other factors, they may not be successful in conducting their servicing activities in a manner that fully accomplishes our objectives within the timeframe we desire. Further, our servicers have advised us that they have not been able to reach many of the borrowers who may need help with their mortgage loans even when repeated efforts have been made to contact the borrower. For these reasons, our ability to actively manage the troubled loans that we own or guarantee, and to implement our homeownership assistance and foreclosure prevention efforts quickly and effectively, is limited by our reliance on our mortgage servicers. This reliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 52Changes in the foreclosure environment and our reliance on servicers and their counsel and other service providers to complete foreclosures could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and net worth. The processing of foreclosures continues to be slow in a number of states, primarily as a result of the elevated level of foreclosures caused by the housing market downturn that began in 2006, changes in state foreclosure laws, new federal and state servicing requirements imposed by regulatory actions and legal settlements, and the need for servicers to adapt to these changes. The slow pace of foreclosures has negatively affected our foreclosure timelines, credit-related income (expense) and single-family serious delinquency rates, and we expect they will continue to do so. We believe the slow pace of foreclosures in certain areas of the country is contributing to a slower recovery of those housing markets. It may also negatively affect the value of the private-label securities we hold and result in additional impairments on these securities. Moreover, the failure of our servicers or their service providers to apply prudent and effective process controls and to comply with legal and other requirements in the foreclosure process poses operational, reputational and legal risks for us. In addition, in response to a directive from FHFA, we phased out the practice of requiring mortgage servicers to use our network of retained attorneys to perform default- and foreclosure-related legal services for our loans. This may make it more difficult for us to oversee the performance of default- and foreclosure-related legal services for our loans, which may adversely impact our efforts to reduce our credit losses.Challenges to the MERS® company, system and processes could pose operational, reputational and legal risks for us. MERSCORP Holdings, Inc. (“MERSCORP”) is a privately held company that maintains an electronic registry (the “MERS System”) that tracks servicing rights and ownership of loans in the United States. Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc. (“MERS”), a wholly owned subsidiary of MERSCORP, can serve as a nominee for the owner of a mortgage loan and, in that role, become the mortgagee of record for the loan in local land records. Fannie Mae sellers/servicers may choose to use MERS as a nominee; however, we have prohibited servicers from initiating foreclosures on Fannie Mae loans in MERS’s name. A large portion of the loans we own or guarantee are registered in MERS’s name and the related servicing rights are tracked in the MERS System. The MERS System is widely used by participants in the mortgage finance industry. Along with a number of other organizations in the mortgage finance industry, we are a shareholder of MERSCORP. Several legal challenges have been made disputing MERS’s ability to initiate foreclosures, act as nominee in local land records, and/or assign mortgages or take other action on behalf of the loan owner. These challenges seek judicial relief ranging from money damages to injunctive/declaratory relief seeking the prevention of mortgage assignments by MERS and/or the voiding of completed foreclosures in which MERS appeared in the chain of title. These challenges have focused public attention on MERS and on how loans are recorded in local land records. As a result, these challenges could negatively affect MERS’s ability to serve as the mortgagee of record in some jurisdictions, which could cause additional costs and time in the recordation process and could negatively impact our interest in the loans. These challenges also could result in court decisions that substantially delay new or pending foreclosures, or void completed foreclosures in certain jurisdictions, which would require that we re-foreclose on the affected properties, thereby increasing our costs and lengthening the time it takes for us to foreclose on and dispose of the properties. In addition, where MERS is the mortgagee of record, it must execute assignments of mortgages, affidavits and other legal documents in connection with foreclosure proceedings. In April 2011, federal banking regulators and FHFA announced that they were taking enforcement action against MERS and MERSCORP to address significant weaknesses in, among other things, oversight, management supervision and corporate governance at MERS and MERSCORP that were uncovered as part of the regulators’ review of mortgage servicers’ foreclosure processing. Failures by MERS or MERSCORP to apply prudent and effective process controls and to comply with legal and other requirements could pose counterparty, operational, reputational and legal risks for us. If investigations or new regulation or legislation restricts servicers’ use of MERS, our counterparties may be required to record all mortgage transfers in land records, incurring additional costs and time in the recordation process. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these legal challenges to, or the enforcement action against, MERS and MERSCORP or the impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Changes in accounting standards and policies can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial results. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the FASB or the SEC changes the financial accounting and reporting standards or the policies that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, FHFA provides guidance that affects our adoption or implementation of financial accounting or reporting standards. These changes can be difficult to predict and expensive to 53implement, and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. We could be required to apply new or revised guidance retrospectively, which may result in the revision of prior period financial statements by material amounts. The implementation of new or revised accounting guidance could have a material adverse effect on our financial results or net worth and result in or contribute to the need for additional draws from Treasury under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement.Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our reported results or disclosures that are not complete or accurate. Management has determined that, as of the date of this filing, we have ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has expressed an adverse opinion on our internal control over financial reporting because of the material weakness. Our ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and material weakness could result in errors in our reported results or disclosures that are not complete or accurate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our material weakness relates specifically to the impact of the conservatorship on our disclosure controls and procedures. Because we are under the control of FHFA, some of the information that we may need to meet our disclosure obligations may be solely within the knowledge of FHFA. As our conservator, FHFA has the power to take actions without our knowledge that could be material to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and could significantly affect our financial performance or our continued existence as an ongoing business. Because FHFA currently functions as both our regulator and our conservator, there are inherent structural limitations on our ability to design, implement, test or operate effective disclosure controls and procedures relating to information within FHFA’s knowledge. As a result, we have not been able to update our disclosure controls and procedures in a manner that adequately ensures the accumulation and communication to management of information known to FHFA that is needed to meet our disclosure obligations under the federal securities laws, including disclosures affecting our financial statements. Given the structural nature of this material weakness, we do not expect to remediate this weakness while we are under conservatorship. See “Controls and Procedures” for further discussion of management’s conclusions on our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In many cases, our accounting policies and methods, which are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management also relies on models in making these estimates. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in applying many of these accounting policies and methods so that these policies and methods comply with GAAP and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the appropriate accounting policy or method from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances but might affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that we report. See “Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for a description of our significant accounting policies. We have identified some of our accounting policies as being critical to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. These accounting policies are described in “MD&A—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We believe these policies are critical because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Because our financial statements involve estimates for amounts that are very large, even a small change in the estimate can have a significant impact for the reporting period. For example, because our total loss reserves are so large, even a change that has a small impact relative to the size of our loss reserves can have a meaningful impact on our results for the quarter in which we make the change. Due to the complexity of the critical accounting policies we have identified, our accounting methods relating to these policies involve substantial use of models. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on assumptions, including assumptions about future events. Our models may not include assumptions that reflect very positive or very negative market conditions and, accordingly, our actual results could differ significantly from those generated by our models. As a result of the above factors, the estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements, as well as our estimates of our future results of operations, may be inaccurate, perhaps significantly. 54Failure of our models to produce reliable results may adversely affect our ability to manage risk and make effective business decisions. We make significant use of quantitative models to measure and monitor our risk exposures and to manage our business. For example, we use models to measure and monitor our exposures to interest rate, credit and market risks, and to forecast credit losses. The information provided by these models is used in making business decisions relating to strategies, initiatives, transactions, pricing and products. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on historical data and assumptions regarding factors such as future loan demand, borrower behavior, creditworthiness and home price trends. Other potential sources of inaccurate or inappropriate model results include errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model’s design. Modeling often assumes that historical data or experience can be relied upon as a basis for forecasting future events, an assumption that may be especially tenuous in the face of unprecedented events. Given the challenges of predicting future behavior, management judgment is used at every stage of the modeling process, from model design decisions regarding core underlying assumptions, to interpreting and applying final model output. To control for these inherent imperfections, our primary models are vetted by an independent model risk management team within our Enterprise Risk Division. When market conditions change quickly and in unforeseen ways, there is an increased risk that the model assumptions and data inputs for our models are not representative of the most recent market conditions. Under such circumstances, we must rely on management judgment to make adjustments or overrides to our models. A formal model update is typically an extensive process that involves basic research, testing, independent validation and production implementation. In a rapidly changing environment, it may not be possible to update existing models quickly enough to properly account for the most recently available data and events. Management adjustments to modeled results are applied within the confines of the governance structure provided by a combination of our model risk management team and our business, finance and risk committees. If our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management decisions, including decisions affecting loan purchases, management of credit losses, guaranty fee pricing, asset and liability management and the management of our net worth. Any of these decisions could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, liquidity, net worth and financial condition. Furthermore, strategies we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable. Changes in interest rates or our loss of the ability to manage interest rate risk successfully could adversely affect our financial results and increase interest rate risk. We fund our operations primarily through the issuance of debt and invest our funds primarily in mortgage-related assets that permit mortgage borrowers to prepay their mortgages at any time. These business activities expose us to market risk, which is the risk of adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments resulting from changes in market conditions. Our most significant market risks are interest rate risk and prepayment risk. We describe these risks in more detail in “MD&A—Risk Management—Market Risk Management, Including Interest Rate Risk Management.” Changes in interest rates affect both the value of our mortgage assets and prepayment rates on our mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Our ability to manage interest rate risk depends on our ability to issue debt instruments with a range of maturities and other features, including call provisions, at attractive rates and to engage in derivatives transactions. We must exercise judgment in selecting the amount, type and mix of debt and derivatives instruments that will most effectively manage our interest rate risk. The amount, type and mix of financial instruments that are available to us may not offset possible future changes in the spread between our borrowing costs and the interest we earn on our mortgage assets. Our business is subject to laws and regulations that restrict our activities and operations, which may prohibit us from undertaking activities that management believes would benefit our business and limit our ability to diversify our business. As a federally chartered corporation, we are subject to the limitations imposed by the Charter Act, extensive regulation, supervision and examination by FHFA and regulation by other federal agencies, including Treasury, HUD and the SEC. As a company under conservatorship, our primary regulator has management authority over us in its role as our conservator. We are also subject to other laws and regulations that affect our business, including those regarding taxation and privacy. The Charter Act defines our permissible business activities. For example, we may not originate mortgage loans or purchase single-family loans in excess of the conforming loan limits, and our business is limited to the U.S. housing finance sector. In 55addition, our conservator has determined that, while in conservatorship, we will not be permitted to engage in new products and will be limited to continuing our existing business activities and taking actions necessary to advance the goals of the conservatorship. As a result of these limitations on our ability to diversify our operations, our financial condition and results of operations depend almost entirely on conditions in a single sector of the U.S. economy, specifically, the U.S. housing market. Weak or unstable conditions in the housing market, as we have seen in recent years, can therefore have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and net worth. We could be required to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties as a result of civil litigation. We are a party to a number of lawsuits. We are unable at this time to estimate our potential liability in these matters, but may be required to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties and incur significant expenses in connection with these lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. In addition, responding to these lawsuits may divert significant internal resources away from managing our business. More information regarding these lawsuits is included in “Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies.” An active trading market in our equity securities may cease to exist, which would adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our common and preferred stock. Our common stock and preferred stock are now traded exclusively in the over-the-counter market. We cannot predict the actions of market makers, investors or other market participants, and can offer no assurances that the market for our securities will be stable. If there is no active trading market in our equity securities, the market price and liquidity of the securities will be adversely affected. Mortgage fraud could result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation. We use a process of delegated underwriting in which lenders make specific representations and warranties about the characteristics of the mortgage loans we purchase and securitize. As a result, we do not independently verify most borrower information that is provided to us. This exposes us to the risk that one or more of the parties involved in a transaction (the borrower, seller, broker, appraiser, title agent, lender or servicer) will engage in fraud by misrepresenting facts about a mortgage loan. Similarly, we rely on delegated servicing of loans and use of a variety of external resources to manage our REO. We have experienced financial losses resulting from mortgage fraud, including institutional fraud perpetrated by counterparties. In the future, we may experience additional financial losses or reputational damage as a result of mortgage fraud. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRYA decline in U.S. home prices would likely cause higher credit losses and credit-related expense. Changes in home prices can have a significant impact on the amount of our credit-related expense or income and on the amount of our credit losses. A decline in home prices would likely result in a higher level of credit losses and credit-related expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, net worth and financial condition. A decline in activity in the U.S. housing market or increasing interest rates could lower our business volumes.Our business volume is affected by the rate of growth in total U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the U.S. residential mortgage market. A decline in mortgage debt outstanding reduces the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans available for us to securitize or purchase, which in turn could reduce our guaranty fee income and net interest income. Even if we were able to increase our share of the secondary mortgage market, it may not be sufficient to make up for a decline in the rate of growth in mortgage originations.Mortgage interest rates also affect our business volume. Rising interest rates generally result in fewer mortgage originations, particularly for refinances. Interest rates increased significantly in the second half of 2013, which reduced our business volume in the second half of the year as compared to the first half. If interest rates rise further, particularly if the increase is sudden and steep, it could significantly reduce our business volume. Significant reductions in our business volume could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory changes in the financial services industry may negatively impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the regulation of the financial services industry, including requiring new standards related to regulatory oversight of systemically important financial companies, derivatives transactions, asset-backed securitization, mortgage underwriting and consumer financial protection. This legislation is affecting and will continue to 56affect many aspects of our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory changes have required us to change certain business practices, limit the types of products we offer and incur additional costs. As additional implementing regulations of Dodd-Frank Act provisions are finalized, these regulations could require us to change additional business practices, further limit the types of products we offer, incur significant additional costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Additionally, implementation of this legislation has resulted in and will continue to result in increased supervision and more comprehensive regulation of our customers and counterparties in the financial services industry, which may have a significant impact on the business practices of our customers and counterparties, as well as on our counterparty credit risk. Examples of aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act and related regulatory changes that have affected us or may affect us in the future include: rules requiring the clearing of certain derivatives transactions and margin and capital rules for uncleared derivative trades, which will impose additional costs on us; the CFPB’s “ability to repay” rule, which has limited the types of products we offer and could impact the volume of loans sold to us in the future; and the development of credit risk retention regulations applicable to residential mortgage loan securitizations, which could impact the types and volume of loans sold to us in the future. We could also be designated as a systemically important nonbank financial company subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve. If this were to occur, the Federal Reserve would have the authority to examine us and could impose stricter prudential standards on us, including risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single-counterparty exposure limits, resolution plan and credit exposure reporting requirements, overall risk management requirements, contingent capital requirements, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits. Because federal agencies have not completed all of the rule-making processes needed to implement and clarify certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, it is difficult to assess fully the impact of this legislation on our business and industry at this time, and we cannot predict what other changes to statutes or regulations will occur in the future. In addition, uncertainty regarding how certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may ultimately be implemented or clarified is affecting and may in the future affect our actions and those of our customers and counterparties, which may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.In addition, the actions of Treasury, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the SEC, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly or indirectly impact financial institutions’ cost of funds for lending, capital-raising and investment activities, which could increase our borrowing costs or make borrowing more difficult for us. Changes in monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to anticipate. Overall, these legislative and regulatory changes could affect us in substantial and unforeseeable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. In particular, these changes could affect our ability to issue debt or Fannie Mae MBS and may reduce our customer base. Legislative and regulatory changes may negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. As a result of actions by Congress or government agencies, significant changes may be effected that could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. These changes could be the result of actions taken in connection with housing finance reform. Alternatively, changes aimed at addressing other issues could affect us. For example, if Congress addresses fiscal issues by restricting the deductibility of mortgage interest, depending on the extent and nature of the restrictions, our business and financial results could be significantly adversely affected.The occurrence of a major natural or other disaster in the United States could negatively impact our credit losses and credit-related expenses, and could disrupt our business operations in the affected geographic area. We conduct our business in the residential and multifamily mortgage markets and own or guarantee the performance of mortgage loans throughout the United States. The occurrence of a major natural or environmental disaster, terrorist attack, pandemic, or similar event (a “major disruptive event”) in a regional geographic area of the United States could negatively impact our credit losses and credit-related expenses in the affected area. The occurrence of a major disruptive event could negatively impact a geographic area in a number of different ways, depending on the nature of the event. A major disruptive event that either damages or destroys residential or multifamily real estate securing mortgage loans in our book of business or negatively impacts the ability of borrowers to continue to make principal and interest payments on mortgage loans in our book of business could increase our delinquency rates, default rates and average loan loss severity of our book of business in the affected region or regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. While we attempt to create a geographically diverse mortgage credit book of business, there can be no assurance that a major disruptive event, depending on its magnitude, scope and nature, will not generate significant credit losses and credit-related expenses. 57In addition, as described in a risk factor above, although we have business continuity plans and facilities in place, the occurrence of a catastrophic event could overwhelm our recovery capabilities, which could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and lead to financial losses.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None.Item 2. PropertiesWe own our principal office, which is located at 3900 Wisconsin Avenue, NW, Washington, DC, as well as additional Washington, DC facilities at 3939 Wisconsin Avenue, NW and 4250 Connecticut Avenue, NW. We also own two office facilities in Herndon, Virginia, as well as two additional facilities located in Reston, Virginia and Urbana, Maryland. These owned facilities contain a total of approximately 1,459,000 square feet of space. We lease the land underlying the 4250 Connecticut Avenue building pursuant to a ground lease that automatically renews on July 1, 2029 for an additional 49 years unless we elect to terminate the lease by providing notice to the landlord of our decision to terminate at least one year prior to the automatic renewal date. In addition, we lease approximately 429,000 square feet of office space, including a conference center, at 4000 Wisconsin Avenue, NW, which is adjacent to our principal office. The lease term for the office and conference center at 4000 Wisconsin Avenue expires in April 2018. We also lease an additional approximately 170,000 square feet of office space at two other locations in Washington, DC and Virginia. We maintain approximately 715,000 square feet of office space in leased premises in Pasadena, California; Irvine, California; Atlanta, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and three facilities in Dallas, Texas.Item 3. Legal ProceedingsThis item describes our material legal proceedings. We describe additional material legal proceedings in “Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies,” which is incorporated herein by reference. In addition to the matters specifically described or incorporated by reference in this item, we are involved in a number of legal and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business that do not have a material impact on our business. Litigation claims and proceedings of all types are subject to many factors that generally cannot be predicted accurately.We record reserves for legal claims when losses associated with those claims become probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved for those claims. For matters where the likelihood or extent of a loss is not probable or cannot be reasonably estimated, we do not recognize in our consolidated financial statements the potential liability that may result from these matters. Except for matters that have been settled, we presently cannot determine the ultimate resolution of the matters described below or incorporated by reference into this item. If certain of these matters are determined against us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, including our net worth.FHFA Private-Label Mortgage-Related Securities Litigation In the third quarter of 2011, FHFA, as conservator, filed 16 lawsuits on behalf of both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac against various financial institutions, their officers and affiliated and unaffiliated underwriters that were responsible for marketing and selling private-label mortgage-related securities to us. The lawsuits seek to recover losses we and Freddie Mac incurred on the securities. The lawsuits allege that the defendants violated federal and state securities laws and, in some cases, committed fraud by making material misstatements and omissions regarding the characteristics of the loans underlying the securities in the offering documents for the securities that were sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. All of the lawsuits were filed on September 2, 2011, except for the lawsuit against UBS Americas Inc., which was filed on July 27, 2011. The complaints seek, among other things, rescission and recovery of consideration paid for the securities at issue in the lawsuits, monetary damages, interest and, in certain cases, punitive damages for common law fraud claims. SDNY casesFourteen of the lawsuits were filed or transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (“SDNY”). These cases are or were against Bank of America Corp.; Barclays Bank PLC; Citigroup, Inc.; Credit Suisse Holdings (USA), Inc.; Deutsche Bank AG; First Horizon National Corporation; Goldman, Sachs & Co.; HSBC North America Holdings Inc.; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Merrill Lynch & Co.; Morgan Stanley; Nomura Holding America Inc.; SG Americas, Inc.; and UBS Americas Inc. (“UBS”) and against certain related entities and individuals.Five of the above-listed fourteen lawsuits were resolved in 2013 or 2014:•Citigroup. On May 24, 2013, we, along with FHFA and Freddie Mac, entered into a settlement agreement with Citigroup Inc. and certain related entities resolving the Citigroup Inc. case in exchange for a payment of $250 58million from Citigroup. Citigroup paid us approximately $145 million of this amount. On May 29, 2013, the district court entered a voluntary order dismissing the case.•UBS. On July 25, 2013, we, along with FHFA and Freddie Mac, entered into a settlement agreement with UBS and certain related entities and individuals resolving the UBS case and certain other claims in exchange for a payment of $885 million. UBS paid us approximately $416 million of this amount. On July 30, 2013, the district court entered a voluntary order dismissing the case.•JPMorgan Chase. On October 25, 2013, we, along with FHFA and Freddie Mac, entered into a settlement agreement with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain related entities and individuals (collectively with JPMorgan Chase, the “JPMorgan Chase parties”) resolving the JPMorgan case and certain other claims in exchange for a payment of $4.0 billion. The JPMorgan Chase parties paid us approximately $1.3 billion of this amount. On November 18, 2013, the district court entered a voluntary order dismissing the case.•Deutsche Bank. On December 19, 2013, we, along with FHFA and Freddie Mac, entered into a settlement agreement with Deutsche Bank and certain related entities resolving the Deutsche Bank case and certain other claims in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion. Deutsche Bank paid us approximately $297 million of this amount. On January 6, 2014, the district court entered a voluntary order dismissing the case.•Morgan Stanley. On February 7, 2014, we, along with FHFA and Freddie Mac, entered into a settlement agreement with Morgan Stanley and certain related entities resolving the Morgan Stanley case for a payment of $1.25 billion. Morgan Stanley paid us $625 million of this amount. On February 18, 2014, the district court entered a voluntary order dismissing the case.The other nine lawsuits listed above remain pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.RBS caseFHFA’s lawsuit against The Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC (“RBS”) and certain related entities and individuals is pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut. Countrywide caseFHFA’s lawsuit against Countrywide Financial Corporation (“Countrywide”) and certain related entities and individuals is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreements LitigationBetween June 2013 and February 2014, several lawsuits were filed by preferred and common stockholders of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia and the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Iowa against the United States, Treasury and/or FHFA, challenging actions taken by the defendants relating to the senior preferred stock purchase agreements and the conservatorships of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Some of these lawsuits also contain claims against Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The legal claims being advanced by one or more of these lawsuits include challenges to the net worth sweep dividend provisions of the senior preferred stock that were implemented pursuant to the August 2012 amendments to the agreements, as well as to FHFA’s decision to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to draw funds from Treasury in order to pay dividends to Treasury during conservatorship. The plaintiffs seek various forms of equitable and injunctive relief, including rescission of the August 2012 amendments, as well as damages. The matters where Fannie Mae is a named defendant are described below and in “Note 19, Commitments and Contingencies.” Specifically, Fannie Mae is a nominal defendant in a consolidated derivative action that was filed against the United States in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims on December 2, 2013: Fisher v. United States of America. Plaintiffs in this case allege that the net worth sweep dividend provisions of the senior preferred stock that were implemented pursuant to the August 2012 amendment to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement constitute a taking of Fannie Mae’s property without just compensation in violation of the U.S. Constitution. Plaintiffs in this case request just compensation to Fannie Mae in an unspecified amount. The United States filed a motion to dismiss the case on January 23, 2014.LIBOR Lawsuit On October 31, 2013, Fannie Mae filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against Barclays Bank PLC, UBS AG, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Credit Suisse International, Bank of America Corp., Bank of America, N.A., Citigroup Inc., Citibank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Coöperative Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A., the British Bankers Association and BBA LIBOR Ltd. alleging they manipulated LIBOR. The complaint alleges, 59among other things, that the banks submitted false borrowing costs to the BBA in order to suppress LIBOR. The complaint seeks compensatory and punitive damages based on claims for breach of contract, breach of the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing, fraud and conspiracy to commit fraud. The lawsuit is currently stayed by court order.Item 4. Mine Safety DisclosuresNone.60PART IIItem 5.Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market and quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the ticker symbol “FNMA.” The transfer agent and registrar for our common stock is Computershare, P.O. Box 30170, College Station, TX 77842-3170. Common Stock Data The following table displays, for the periods indicated, the high and low prices per share of our common stock as reported in the Bloomberg Financial Markets service. These prices represent high and low trade prices. No dividends were declared on shares of our common stock during the periods indicated.QuarterHigh Low2012 First Quarter$0.41 $0.20Second Quarter0.32 0.25Third Quarter0.34 0.20Fourth Quarter0.31 0.252013 First Quarter$1.47 $0.26Second Quarter5.44 0.68Third Quarter1.79 1.03Fourth Quarter3.50 1.31Dividends Our payment of dividends is subject to the following restrictions: Restrictions Relating to Conservatorship. Our conservator announced on September 7, 2008 that we would not pay any dividends on the common stock or on any series of preferred stock, other than the senior preferred stock. In addition, FHFA’s regulations relating to conservatorship and receivership operations prohibit us from paying any dividends while in conservatorship unless authorized by the Director of FHFA. The Director of FHFA directs us to make dividend payments on the senior preferred stock on a quarterly basis.Restrictions Under Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement. The senior preferred stock purchase agreement prohibits us from declaring or paying any dividends on Fannie Mae equity securities (other than the senior preferred stock) without the prior written consent of Treasury. In addition, in 2012 the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement and the senior preferred stock were amended to ultimately require the payment of our entire net worth to Treasury. As a result, our net income is not available to common stockholders. For more information on the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement and senior preferred stock, see “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements—Treasury Agreements—Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement and Related Issuance of Senior Preferred Stock and Common Stock Warrant.”Additional Restrictions Relating to Preferred Stock. Payment of dividends on our common stock is also subject to the prior payment of dividends on our preferred stock and our senior preferred stock. Payment of dividends on all outstanding preferred stock, other than the senior preferred stock, is also subject to the prior payment of dividends on the senior preferred stock. Statutory Restrictions. Under the GSE Act, FHFA has authority to prohibit capital distributions, including payment of dividends, if we fail to meet our capital requirements. If FHFA classifies us as significantly undercapitalized, approval of the Director of FHFA is required for any dividend payment. Under the GSE Act, we are not permitted to make a capital distribution if, after making the distribution, we would be undercapitalized, except the Director of FHFA may permit us to repurchase shares if the repurchase is made in connection with the issuance of additional shares or obligations in at least an equivalent amount and will reduce our financial obligations or otherwise improve our financial condition. Restrictions Relating to Subordinated Debt. During any period in which we defer payment of interest on qualifying subordinated debt, we may not declare or pay dividends on, or redeem, purchase or acquire, our common stock or preferred stock. 61Holders As of January 31, 2014, we had approximately 14,000 registered holders of record of our common stock, including holders of our restricted stock. In addition, as of January 31, 2014, Treasury held a warrant giving it the right to purchase shares of our common stock equal to 79.9% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis on the date of exercise. Recent Sales of Unregistered SecuritiesUnder the terms of our senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury, we are prohibited from selling or issuing our equity interests, other than as required by (and pursuant to) the terms of a binding agreement in effect on September 7, 2008, without the prior written consent of Treasury. During the quarter ended December 31, 2013, we did not issue any equity securities.Information about Certain Securities Issuances by Fannie MaePursuant to SEC regulations, public companies are required to disclose certain information when they incur a material direct financial obligation or become directly or contingently liable for a material obligation under an off-balance sheet arrangement. The disclosure must be made in a current report on Form 8-K under Item 2.03 or, if the obligation is incurred in connection with certain types of securities offerings, in prospectuses for that offering that are filed with the SEC.Because the securities we issue are exempted securities under the Securities Act of 1933, we do not file registration statements or prospectuses with the SEC with respect to our securities offerings. To comply with the disclosure requirements of Form 8-K relating to the incurrence of material financial obligations, we report our incurrence of these types of obligations either in offering circulars or prospectuses (or supplements thereto) that we post on our Web site or in a current report on Form 8-K that we file with the SEC, in accordance with a “no-action” letter we received from the SEC staff in 2004. In cases where the information is disclosed in a prospectus or offering circular posted on our Web site, the document will be posted on our Web site within the same time period that a prospectus for a non-exempt securities offering would be required to be filed with the SEC.The Web site address for disclosure about our debt securities is www.fanniemae.com/debtsearch. From this address, investors can access the offering circular and related supplements for debt securities offerings under Fannie Mae’s universal debt facility, including pricing supplements for individual issuances of debt securities.Disclosure about our obligations pursuant to some of the MBS we issue, some of which may be off-balance sheet obligations, can be found at www.fanniemae.com/mbsdisclosure. From this address, investors can access information and documents about our MBS, including prospectuses and related prospectus supplements.We are providing our Web site address solely for your information. Information appearing on our Web site is not incorporated into this report.Our Purchases of Equity SecuritiesWe did not repurchase any of our equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2013.62Item 6. Selected Financial DataThe selected consolidated financial data displayed below are summarized from our results of operations for the five-year period ended December 31, 2013, as well as selected consolidated balance sheet data as of the end of each year within this five-year period. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. This data should be reviewed in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes and with the MD&A included in this annual report on Form 10-K.In 2009, the FASB concurrently revised the accounting guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities (the “consolidation accounting guidance”) and the accounting guidance related to transfers of financial assets. The revisions to the accounting guidance for these topics replaced the previous accounting model with a qualitative model for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and also increased the population of entities that are subject to assessment under the consolidation accounting guidance by removing the scope exception for qualifying special purpose entities. On January 1, 2010, we prospectively adopted the revised guidance for these topics, which had a significant impact on the presentation and comparability of our consolidated financial statements. Upon adoption of the consolidation accounting guidance, we consolidated the substantial majority of our single-class securitization trusts and eliminated previously recorded deferred revenue from our guaranty arrangements. While some line items in our consolidated financial statements were not impacted, others were impacted significantly, which reduces the comparability of our results for 2009. For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Statement of operations data: Net revenues(1)$26,334 $22,988 $20,444 $17,493 $22,494 Net income (loss) attributable to Fannie Mae83,963 17,224 (16,855) (14,014) (71,969) New business acquisition data: Fannie Mae MBS issues acquired by third parties(2)$527,132 $630,077 $478,870 $497,975 $496,067 Retained mortgage portfolio purchases(3)269,430 288,337 173,978 357,573 327,578 New business acquisitions$796,562 $918,414 $652,848 $855,548 $823,645 Performance ratios: Net interest yield(4)0.70%0.68%0.60%0.51%1.65%Credit loss ratio (in basis points)(5)14.7bps48.2bps61.3bps77.4bps44.6bps As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions)Balance sheet data: Investments in securities$68,939 $103,876 $151,780 $151,248 $349,667Mortgage loans, net of allowance(6)3,026,240 2,949,406 2,898,621 2,923,720 394,561Total assets3,270,108 3,222,422 3,211,484 3,221,972 869,141Short-term debt74,449 108,716 151,725 157,243 200,437Long-term debt3,160,074 3,080,801 3,038,147 3,039,757 574,117Total liabilities3,260,517 3,215,198 3,216,055 3,224,489 884,422Senior preferred stock117,149 117,149 112,578 88,600 60,900Preferred stock19,130 19,130 19,130 20,204 20,348Total Fannie Mae stockholders’ equity (deficit) 9,541 7,183 (4,624) (2,599) (15,372)Net worth surplus (deficit)(7)9,591 7,224 (4,571) (2,517) (15,281)63 As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Book of business data: Total mortgage assets(8)$3,092,424 $3,063,712 $3,065,616 $3,099,250 $769,252 Unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS, held by third parties(9)13,744 16,915 19,612 21,323 2,432,789 Other guarantees(10)30,597 36,215 42,406 35,619 27,624 Mortgage credit book of business$3,136,765 $3,116,842 $3,127,634 $3,156,192 $3,229,665 Guaranty book of business(11)$3,090,538 $3,039,457 $3,037,549 $3,054,488 $3,097,201 Credit quality: Total TDRs on accrual status$141,227 $136,064 $108,797 $82,702 $9,880 Total nonaccrual loans(12)83,606 114,833 143,152 170,877 212,184 Total loss reserves47,290 62,629 76,938 66,251 64,891 Total loss reserves as a percentage of total guaranty book of business1.53%2.06%2.53%2.17%2.10%Total loss reserves as a percentage of total nonaccrual loans56.56 54.54 53.75 38.77 30.58 __________(1) Consists of net interest income and fee and other income.(2) Reflects unpaid principal balance of Fannie Mae MBS issued and guaranteed by us during the reporting period less: (a) securitizations of mortgage loans held in our retained mortgage portfolio during the reporting period and (b) Fannie Mae MBS purchased for our retained mortgage portfolio during the reporting period.(3) Reflects unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities we purchased for our retained mortgage portfolio during the reporting period. Includes acquisition of mortgage-related securities accounted for as the extinguishment of debt because the entity underlying the mortgage-related securities has been consolidated in our consolidated balance sheets. For 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010, includes unpaid principal balance of approximately $28 billion, $46 billion, $67 billion and $217 billion, respectively, of delinquent loans purchased from our single-family MBS trusts. Under our MBS trust documents, we have the option to purchase from MBS trusts loans that are delinquent as to four or more consecutive monthly payments.(4) Calculated based on net interest income for the reporting period divided by the average balance of total interest-earning assets during the period, expressed as a percentage.(5) Consists of (a) charge-offs, net of recoveries and (b) foreclosed property income (expense) for the reporting period (adjusted to exclude the impact of fair value losses resulting from credit-impaired loans acquired from MBS trusts and HomeSaver Advance loans) divided by the average guaranty book of business during the period, expressed in basis points. See “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations—Credit-Related (Income) Expense—Credit Loss Performance Metrics” for a discussion of how our credit loss metrics are calculated.(6) Mortgage loans consist solely of domestic residential real-estate mortgages.(7) Total assets less total liabilities.(8) Reflects unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities reported in our consolidated balance sheets. The principal balance of resecuritized Fannie Mae MBS is included only once in the reported amount. As a result of our adoption of the consolidation accounting guidance as of January 1, 2010, we reflect a substantial majority of our Fannie Mae MBS as mortgage assets and the balance as unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS.(9) Reflects unpaid principal balance of unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS, held by third-party investors. The principal balance of resecuritized Fannie Mae MBS is included only once in the reported amount.(10) Primarily includes long-term standby commitments we have issued and single-family and multifamily credit enhancements we have provided that are not otherwise reflected in the table.(11) Reflects mortgage credit book of business less non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities held in our retained mortgage portfolio for which we do not provide a guaranty.(12) We generally classify single-family loans as nonaccrual when the payment of principal or interest on the loan is 60 days or more past due. Includes off-balance sheet loans in unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts that would meet our criteria for nonaccrual status if the loans had been on-balance sheet.64Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsYou should read this MD&A in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2013 and related notes to the consolidated financial statements, and with “Business—Executive Summary.” Please also see “Glossary of Terms Used in This Report.”This report contains forward-looking statements that are based upon management’s current expectations and are subject to significant uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Please review “Business—Forward-Looking Statements” for more information on the forward-looking statements in this report and “Risk Factors” for a discussion of factors that could cause our actual results to differ, perhaps materially, from our forward-looking statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATESThe preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make a number of judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, income and expenses in the consolidated financial statements. Understanding our accounting policies and the extent to which we use management judgment and estimates in applying these policies is integral to understanding our financial statements. We describe our most significant accounting policies in “Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”We evaluate our critical accounting estimates and judgments required by our policies on an ongoing basis and update them as necessary based on changing conditions. Management has discussed any significant changes in judgments and assumptions in applying our critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks associated with the need for management to make judgments and estimates in applying our accounting policies and methods. We have identified four of our accounting policies as critical because they involve significant judgments and assumptions about highly complex and inherently uncertain matters, and the use of reasonably different estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our reported results of operations or financial condition. These critical accounting policies and estimates are as follows:• Fair Value Measurement• Total Loss Reserves• Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investment Securities• Deferred Tax AssetsFair Value MeasurementThe use of fair value to measure our assets and liabilities is fundamental to our financial statements and our fair value measurement is a critical accounting estimate because we account for and record a portion of our assets and liabilities at fair value. In determining fair value, we use various valuation techniques. We describe the valuation techniques and inputs used to determine the fair value of our assets and liabilities and disclose their carrying value and fair value in “Note 18, Fair Value.” The fair value accounting rules provide a three-level fair value hierarchy for classifying financial instruments. This hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value are observable or unobservable. Each asset or liability is assigned to a level based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to its fair value measurement. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Observable market-based inputs, other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 3: Unobservable inputs. The majority of the financial instruments that we report at fair value in our consolidated financial statements fall within the Level 2 category and are valued primarily utilizing inputs and assumptions that are observable in the marketplace, that can be derived from observable market data or that can be corroborated by recent trading activity of similar instruments with similar characteristics. For example, we generally request non-binding prices from at least three independent pricing services to estimate the fair value of our trading and available-for-sale securities at an individual security level. We use the average of these prices to determine the fair value. In the absence of such information or if we are not able to corroborate these prices by other available, relevant market information, we estimate their fair values based on single source quotations from brokers or dealers or by using internal 65calculations or discounted cash flow techniques that incorporate inputs, such as prepayment rates, discount rates and delinquency, default and cumulative loss expectations, that are implied by market prices for similar securities and collateral structure types. Because this valuation technique relies on significant unobservable inputs, the fair value estimation is classified as Level 3. The process for determining fair value using unobservable inputs is generally more subjective and involves a high degree of management judgment and assumptions. These assumptions may have a significant effect on our estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions as well as changes in market conditions could have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Fair Value Hierarchy—Level 3 Assets and LiabilitiesThe assets and liabilities that we have classified as Level 3 consist primarily of financial instruments for which there is limited market activity and therefore little or no price transparency. As a result, the valuation techniques that we use to estimate the fair value of Level 3 instruments involve significant unobservable inputs, which generally are more subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment and assumptions. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities consist of certain mortgage-backed securities and residual interests, certain mortgage loans, acquired property, certain long-term debt arrangements and certain highly structured, complex derivative instruments. We provide a detailed discussion of our Level 3 assets and liabilities, including the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used to measure the fair value of these instruments, in “Note 18, Fair Value.”Valuation Control Processes We have control processes that are designed to ensure that our fair value measurements are appropriate and reliable, that they are based on observable inputs wherever possible and that our valuation approaches are consistently applied and the assumptions used are reasonable. Our control processes consist of a framework that provides for a segregation of duties and oversight of our fair value methodologies and valuations, as well as validation procedures. We provide a detailed discussion of our valuation control processes in “Note 18, Fair Value.”Total Loss Reserves Our total loss reserves consist of the following components: •Allowance for loan losses; •Allowance for accrued interest receivable; •Reserve for guaranty losses; and •Allowance for preforeclosure property tax and insurance receivable. These components can be further allocated into our single-family and multifamily loss reserves.We maintain an allowance for loan losses and an allowance for accrued interest receivable for loans classified as held for investment, including both loans we hold in our portfolio and loans held in consolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts. We maintain a reserve for guaranty losses for loans held in unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts we guarantee and loans we have guaranteed under long-term standby commitments and other credit enhancements we have provided. We also maintain an allowance for preforeclosure property tax and insurance receivable on delinquent loans that is included in “Other assets” in our consolidated balance sheets. These amounts, which we collectively refer to as our total loss reserves, represent probable losses incurred related to loans in our guaranty book of business, including concessions granted to borrowers upon modifications of their loans, as of the balance sheet date. The allowance for loan losses, allowance for accrued interest receivable and allowance for preforeclosure property tax and insurance receivable are valuation allowances that reflect an estimate of incurred credit losses related to our recorded investment in loans held for investment. The reserve for guaranty losses is a liability account in our consolidated balance sheets that reflects an estimate of incurred credit losses related to our guaranty to each unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trust that we will supplement amounts received by the Fannie Mae MBS trust as required to permit timely payments of principal and interest on the related Fannie Mae MBS. As a result, the guaranty reserve considers not only the principal and interest due on the loan at the current balance sheet date, but also an estimate of any additional interest payments due to the trust from the current balance sheet date until the point of loan acquisition or foreclosure. Our loss reserves consist of a specific loss reserve for individually impaired loans and a collective loss reserve for all other loans. We have an established process, using analytical tools, benchmarks and management judgment, to determine our loss reserves. Our process for determining our loss reserves is complex and involves significant management judgment. Although our loss reserve process benefits from extensive historical loan performance data, this process is subject to risks and uncertainties, including a reliance on historical loss information that may not be representative of current conditions. We 66continually monitor delinquency and default trends and make changes in our historically developed assumptions and estimates as necessary to better reflect present conditions, including current trends in borrower risk and/or general economic trends, changes in risk management practices, and changes in public policy and the regulatory environment. We also consider the recoveries that we expect to receive on mortgage insurance and other loan-specific credit enhancements entered into contemporaneously with and in contemplation of a guaranty or loan purchase transaction, as such recoveries reduce the severity of the loss associated with defaulted loans. We provide more detailed information on our accounting for the allowance for loan losses in “Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”Single-Family Loss Reserves We establish a specific single-family loss reserve for individually impaired loans, which includes loans we restructure in troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”), certain nonperforming loans in MBS trusts and acquired credit-impaired loans that have been further impaired subsequent to acquisition. The single-family loss reserve for individually impaired loans represents the majority of our single-family loss reserves due to the high volume of restructured loans. We typically measure impairment based on the difference between our recorded investment in the loan and the present value of the estimated cash flows we expect to receive, which we calculate using the effective interest rate of the original loan or the effective interest rate at acquisition for an acquired credit-impaired loan. However, when foreclosure is probable on an individually impaired loan, we measure impairment based on the difference between our recorded investment in the loan and the fair value of the underlying property, adjusted for the estimated discounted costs to sell the property and estimated insurance or other proceeds we expect to receive. We then allocate a portion of the reserve to interest accrued on the loans as of the balance sheet date. We establish a collective single-family loss reserve for all other single-family loans in our single-family guaranty book of business using a model that estimates the probability of default of loans to derive an overall loss reserve estimate given multiple factors such as: origination year, mark-to-market LTV ratio, delinquency status and loan product type. We believe that the loss severity estimates we use in determining our loss reserves reflect current available information on actual events and conditions as of each balance sheet date, including current home prices. Our loss severity estimates do not incorporate assumptions about future changes in home prices. We do, however, use a look back period to develop our loss severity estimates for all loan categories. We then allocate a portion of the reserve to interest accrued on the loans as of the balance sheet date. We regularly monitor prepayment, default and loss severity trends and periodically make changes in our historically developed assumptions to better reflect present conditions of loan performance. In the second quarter of 2013, we updated the assumptions and data used to estimate our allowance for loan losses for individually impaired single-family loans based on current observable performance trends as well as future expectations of payment behavior. These updates reflect faster prepayment and lower default expectations for these loans, primarily as a result of improvements in loan performance, in part due to increases in home prices. Increases in home prices reduce the mark-to-market LTV ratios on these loans and, as a result, borrowers’ equity increases. Faster prepayment and lower default expectations shortened the expected average life of modified loans, which reduced the expected credit losses and lowered concessions on modified loans. This resulted in a decrease to our allowance for loan losses and an incremental benefit for credit losses of approximately $2.2 billion.Multifamily Loss Reserves We establish a collective multifamily loss reserve for all loans in our multifamily guaranty book of business that are not individually impaired using an internal model that applies loss factors to loans in similar risk categories. Our loss factors are developed based on our historical default and loss severity experience. Management may also apply judgment to adjust the loss factors derived from our models, taking into consideration model imprecision and specific, known events, such as current credit conditions, that may affect the credit quality of our multifamily loan portfolio but are not yet reflected in our model-generated loss factors. We then allocate a portion of the reserve to interest accrued on the loans as of the balance sheet date. We establish a specific multifamily loss reserve for multifamily loans that we determine are individually impaired. We identify multifamily loans for evaluation for impairment through a credit risk assessment process. As part of this assessment process, we stratify multifamily loans into different internal risk categories based on the credit risk inherent in each individual loan and management judgment. We categorize loan credit risk, taking into consideration available operating statements and expected cash flows from the underlying property, the estimated value of the property, the historical loan payment experience and current relevant market conditions that may impact credit quality. If we conclude that a multifamily loan is impaired, we measure the impairment based on the difference between our recorded investment in the loan and the fair value of the underlying property less the estimated discounted costs to sell the property and any lender loss sharing or other proceeds we 67expect to receive. When a multifamily loan is deemed individually impaired because we have modified it, we measure the impairment based on the difference between our recorded investment in the loan and the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loan’s original interest rate unless foreclosure is probable, at which time we measure impairment the same way we measure it for other individually impaired multifamily loans. We obtain property appraisals and broker price opinions when we foreclose on a multifamily property. We then allocate a portion of the reserve to interest accrued on the loans as of the balance sheet date. Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investment SecuritiesWe evaluate available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position as of the end of each quarter for other-than-temporary impairment. We recognize other-than-temporary impairment in earnings if one of the following conditions exists: (1) our intent is to sell the security; (2) it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before the impairment is recovered; or (3) we do not expect to recover our amortized cost basis. Our evaluation requires significant management judgment and considers various factors including: the severity and duration of the impairment; recent events specific to the issuer and/or industry to which the issuer belongs; the payment structure of the security; external credit ratings; and the failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or principal payments. We apply those factors to evaluate debt securities for other-than-temporary impairment using a model that estimates the present value of cash flows to determine if we will recover the amortized cost basis of our available-for-sale securities.We provide more detailed information on our accounting for other-than-temporary impairment in “Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks associated with possible future write-downs of our investment securities. Deferred Tax AssetsWe recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for future tax consequences arising from differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities under GAAP and their respective tax bases, and for net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of our deferred tax assets as of the end of each quarter, weighing all positive and negative evidence, and are required to establish or maintain a valuation allowance for these assets if we determine that it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which the evidence can be objectively verified. If negative evidence exists, positive evidence is necessary to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed.Our framework for assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets requires us to weigh all available evidence, including: •the sustainability of recent profitability required to realize the deferred tax assets;•the cumulative net income or losses in our consolidated statements of operations in recent years; •unsettled circumstances that, if unfavorably resolved, would adversely affect future operations and profit levels on a continuing basis in future years; •the funding available to us under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement; and•the carryforward periods for net operating losses, capital losses and tax credits.As of December 31, 2012, we had a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets of $58.9 billion. After weighing all of the evidence, we determined that the positive evidence in favor of releasing the valuation allowance, particularly the evidence that was objectively verifiable, outweighed the negative evidence against releasing the allowance as of March 31, 2013. Therefore, we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, except the deferred tax assets relating to capital loss carryforwards, would be realized. As a result, we released the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2013, except for amounts that were expected to be released against income before federal income taxes for the remainder of the year.The positive evidence that weighed in favor of releasing the allowance as of March 31, 2013 and ultimately outweighed the negative evidence against releasing the allowance was the following:•our profitability in 2012 and the first quarter of 2013 and our expectations regarding the sustainability of these profits;•our three-year cumulative income position as of March 31, 2013;•the strong credit profile of the loans we have acquired since 2009;•the significant size of our guaranty book of business and our contractual rights for future revenue from this book of business;68•our taxable income for 2012 and our expectations regarding the likelihood of future taxable income; and•that our net operating loss carryforwards would not expire until 2030 through 2031. We anticipated that we would utilize all of these carryforwards upon filing our 2013 federal income tax return.Releasing the majority of the valuation allowance did not reduce the funding available to us under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement and therefore did not result in regulatory actions that would limit our business operations to ensure our safety and soundness. In addition, we transitioned from a three-year cumulative loss position over the three years ended December 31, 2012 to a three-year cumulative income position over the three years ended March 31, 2013. The change in these conditions during the first quarter of 2013 removed negative evidence that supported maintaining the valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2013, we continued to conclude that the positive evidence in favor of releasing the allowance outweighed the negative evidence against releasing the allowance and that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets, except the deferred tax assets relating to capital loss carryforwards, would be realized. As of December 31, 2013, we had no additional valuation allowance except for the $525 million of the valuation allowance we retained that pertains to our capital loss carryforwards, which we believe will expire unused. We recognized a benefit for federal income taxes of $45.4 billion in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2013 due to the release of the valuation allowance, partially offset by our 2013 provision for federal income taxes. The balance of our net deferred tax assets was $47.6 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared with net deferred tax liabilities of $509 million as of December 31, 2012. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONSThis section provides a discussion of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated and should be read together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes.Table 7 displays a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated.Table 7: Summary of Consolidated Results of Operations For the Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (Dollars in millions)Net interest income$22,404 $21,501 $19,281 $903 $2,220 Fee and other income3,930 1,487 1,163 2,443 324 Net revenues$26,334 $22,988 $20,444 $3,346 $2,544 Investment gains, net1,191 487 506 704 (19) Net other-than-temporary impairments(64) (713) (308) 649 (405) Fair value gains (losses), net2,959 (2,977) (6,621) 5,936 3,644 Administrative expenses(2,545) (2,367) (2,370) (178) 3 Credit-related income (expense) Benefit (provision) for credit losses8,949 852 (26,718) 8,097 27,570 Foreclosed property income (expense)2,839 254 (780) 2,585 1,034 Total credit-related income (expense)11,788 1,106 (27,498) 10,682 28,604 Other non-interest expenses(1)(1,096) (1,304) (1,098) 208 (206) Income (loss) before federal income taxes38,567 17,220 (16,945) 21,347 34,165 Benefit for federal income taxes45,415 — 90 45,415 (90) Net income (loss)$83,982 $17,220 $(16,855) $66,762 $34,075 Less: Net (income) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest(19) 4 — (23) 4 Net income (loss) attributable to Fannie Mae$83,963 $17,224 $(16,855) $66,739 $34,079 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Fannie Mae$84,782 $18,843 $(16,408) $65,939 $35,251 __________(1) Consists of debt extinguishment gains (losses), net, TCCA fees and other expenses, net.69Net Interest IncomeNet interest income represents the difference between interest income and interest expense and is a primary source of our revenue. The amount of interest income and interest expense we recognize in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) is affected by our investment and debt activity, asset yields (including the impact of loans on nonaccrual status) and our funding costs.Table 8 displays an analysis of our net interest income, average balances, and related yields earned on assets and incurred on liabilities for the periods indicated. For most components of the average balances, we use a daily weighted average of amortized cost. When daily average balance information is not available, such as for mortgage loans, we use monthly averages. Table 9 displays the change in our net interest income between periods and the extent to which that variance is attributable to: (1) changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities or (2) changes in the interest rates of these assets and liabilities.Table 8: Analysis of Net Interest Income and Yield For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 AverageBalance InterestIncome/Expense AverageRatesEarned/Paid AverageBalance InterestIncome/Expense AverageRatesEarned/Paid AverageBalance InterestIncome/Expense AverageRatesEarned/Paid (Dollars in millions)Interest-earning assets: Mortgage loans of Fannie Mae$326,399 $12,790 3.92% $370,455 $14,255 3.85% $392,719 $14,829 3.78%Mortgage loans of consolidated trusts2,710,838 101,448 3.74 2,621,317 110,451 4.21 2,596,816 123,633 4.76 Total mortgage loans(1)3,037,237 114,238 3.76 2,991,772 124,706 4.17 2,989,535 138,462 4.63 Mortgage-related securities203,514 9,330 4.58 268,761 12,709 4.73 316,963 14,607 4.61 Elimination of Fannie Mae MBS held in retained mortgage portfolio(133,243) (6,236) 4.68 (173,933) (8,492) 4.88 (202,806) (10,360) 5.11 Total mortgage-related securities, net(2)70,271 3,094 4.40 94,828 4,217 4.45 114,157 4,247 3.72 Non-mortgage securities(3)41,484 42 0.10 50,282 71 0.14 71,713 117 0.16 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell or similar arrangements61,644 68 0.11 38,708 73 0.19 26,045 32 0.12 Advances to lenders5,115 107 2.09 6,220 123 1.98 3,943 85 2.16 Total interest-earning assets$3,215,751 $117,549 3.66% $3,181,810 $129,190 4.06% $3,205,393 $142,943 4.46%Interest-bearing liabilities: Short-term debt(4)$95,098 $128 0.13% $102,877 $147 0.14% $160,704 $301 0.19%Long-term debt498,735 10,263 2.06 561,280 11,925 2.12 585,362 14,711 2.51 Total short-term and long-term funding debt593,833 10,391 1.75 664,157 12,072 1.82 746,066 15,012 2.01 Debt securities of consolidated trusts2,783,622 90,990 3.27 2,697,592 104,109 3.86 2,651,121 119,010 4.49 Elimination of Fannie Mae MBS held in retained mortgage portfolio(133,243) (6,236) 4.68 (173,933) (8,492) 4.88 (202,806) (10,360) 5.11 Total debt securities of consolidated trusts held by third parties2,650,379 84,754 3.20 2,523,659 95,617 3.79 2,448,315 108,650 4.44 Total interest-bearing liabilities$3,244,212 $95,145 2.93% $3,187,816 $107,689 3.38% $3,194,381 $123,662 3.87%Net interest income/net interest yield(2) $22,404 0.70% $21,501 0.68% $19,281 0.60% 70 As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011Selected benchmark interest rates(5) 3-month LIBOR0.25% 0.31% 0.58%2-year swap rate0.49 0.39 0.73 5-year swap rate1.79 0.86 1.22 30-year Fannie Mae MBS par coupon rate3.61 2.23 2.88 __________(1) Average balance includes mortgage loans on nonaccrual status. Interest income on nonaccrual mortgage loans is recognized when cash is received.(2) Includes an out-of-period adjustment of $727 million to reduce “Interest income: Available-for-sale securities” in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2011. Without this adjustment, the average interest rate earned on total mortgage-related securities would have been 4.36% and the total net interest yield would have been 0.62% for the year ended December 31, 2011.(3) Includes cash equivalents.(4) Includes federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase.(5) Data from British Bankers’ Association, Thomson Reuters Indices and Bloomberg L.P.Table 9: Rate/Volume Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 Total Variance Due to:(1) Total Variance Due to:(1) Variance Volume Rate Variance Volume Rate (Dollars in millions)Interest income: Mortgage loans of Fannie Mae$(1,465) $(1,722) $257 $(574) $(853) $279Mortgage loans of consolidated trusts(9,003) 3,673 (12,676) (13,182) 1,156 (14,338)Total mortgage loans(10,468) 1,951 (12,419) (13,756) 303 (14,059)Total mortgage-related securities, net(2)(1,123) (1,085) (38) (757) (846) 89Non-mortgage securities(3)(29) (11) (18) (46) (32) (14)Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell or similar arrangements(5) 33 (38) 41 20 21Advances to lenders(16) (23) 7 38 46 (8)Total interest income(11,641) 865 (12,506) (14,480) (509) (13,971)Interest expense: Short-term debt(4)(19) (10) (9) (154) (93) (61)Long-term debt(1,662) (1,297) (365) (2,786) (586) (2,200)Total short-term and long-term funding debt(1,681) (1,307) (374) (2,940) (679) (2,261)Total debt securities of consolidated trusts held by third parties(10,863) 5,150 (16,013) (13,033) 3,479 (16,512)Total interest expense(12,544) 3,843 (16,387) (15,973) 2,800 (18,773)Net interest income(2)$903 $(2,978) $3,881 $1,493 $(3,309) $4,802__________(1) Combined rate/volume variances are allocated to both rate and volume based on the relative size of each variance.(2) Excludes an out-of-period adjustment of $727 million that reduced the interest income on mortgage-related securities for the year ended December 31, 2011.(3) Includes cash equivalents.(4) Includes federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase.71The increase in net interest income in 2013, compared with 2012, was due to a decrease in interest expense exceeding a decrease in interest income, which was primarily due to the following:•accelerated net amortization income related to mortgage loans and debt of consolidated trusts driven by prepayments;•higher guaranty fees, primarily due to an average increase in single-family guaranty fees of 10 basis points implemented during the fourth quarter of 2012 and the 10 basis point increase in single-family guaranty fees related to the TCCA implementation on April 1, 2012. The incremental TCCA-related guaranty fees are remitted to Treasury and recorded in “TCCA fees” in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). We recognize almost all of our guaranty fees in net interest income due to the consolidation of the substantial majority of our MBS trusts on our balance sheet; and•a reduction in the amount of interest income not recognized for nonaccrual mortgage loans. The balance of nonaccrual loans in our consolidated balance sheets declined as we continued to complete a high number of loan workouts and foreclosures, and fewer loans became seriously delinquent. The factors that drove the increase in net interest income in 2013 were partially offset by lower interest income on mortgage loans and securities held in our retained mortgage portfolio primarily due to a decrease in their average balance, as we continued to reduce our retained mortgage portfolio pursuant to the requirements of our senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury and sold non-agency mortgage-related assets to meet an objective of FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard. See “Business Segment Results—The Capital Markets Group’s Mortgage Portfolio” for additional information on our retained mortgage portfolio.Net interest income increased in 2012 compared with 2011, primarily due to the following:•lower interest expense on funding debt due to lower borrowing rates and lower funding needs, which allowed us to continue to replace higher-cost debt with lower-cost debt;•higher coupon interest income recognized on mortgage loans due to a reduction in the amount of interest income not recognized for nonaccrual mortgage loans. The balance of nonaccrual loans in our consolidated balance sheets declined as we continued to complete a high number of loan workouts and foreclosures, and fewer loans became seriously delinquent; and •accelerated net amortization income related to mortgage loans and debt of consolidated trusts driven by a high volume of prepayments due to declining interest rates.The factors that drove the increase in net interest income in 2012 were partially offset by: •lower interest income on Fannie Mae mortgage loans due to a decrease in average balance and new business acquisitions, which continued to replace higher-yielding loans with loans issued at lower mortgage rates; and •lower interest income on mortgage securities due to a decrease in the balance of our mortgage securities, as we continued to manage our retained mortgage portfolio to the requirements of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement.We initially recognize mortgage loans and debt of consolidated trusts in our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. We recognize the difference between (1) the initial fair value of the consolidated trust’s mortgage loans and debt and (2) the unpaid principal balance as cost basis adjustments in our consolidated balance sheets. We amortize cost basis adjustments, including premiums and discounts on mortgage loans and securities, as a yield adjustment over the contractual or estimated life of the loan or security as a component of net interest income. Net unamortized premiums on debt of consolidated trusts exceeded net unamortized premiums on the related mortgage loans of consolidated trusts by $25.0 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared with $16.8 billion as of December 31, 2012. This net premium position represents deferred revenue, which is amortized within net interest income. This deferred revenue primarily relates to upfront fees we receive from lenders for loans with greater credit risk and upfront payments we receive from lenders to adjust the monthly contractual guaranty fee rate on Fannie Mae MBS so that the pass-through coupon rate on the MBS is in a more easily tradable increment of a whole or half percent. The increase in net unamortized premiums from 2012 to 2013 was primarily due to an increase in upfront fees collected on acquisitions in 2013.We had $14.3 billion in net unamortized discounts and other cost basis adjustments on mortgage loans of Fannie Mae included in our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2013, compared with $15.8 billion as of December 31, 2012. These discounts and other cost basis adjustments were primarily recorded upon the acquisition of credit-impaired loans and the extent to which we may record them as income in future periods will be based on the actual performance of the loans.72Table 10 displays the interest income not recognized for loans on nonaccrual status and the resulting reduction in our net interest yield on total interest-earning assets for the periods indicated.Table 10: Impact of Nonaccrual Loans on Net Interest Income For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Interest Income not Recognized for Nonaccrual Loans Reduction in Net Interest Yield(1) Interest Income not Recognized for Nonaccrual Loans Reduction in Net Interest Yield(1) Interest Income not Recognized for Nonaccrual Loans Reduction in Net Interest Yield(1) (Dollars in millions) Mortgage loans of Fannie Mae$(2,415) $(3,403) $(4,666) Mortgage loans of consolidated trusts(342) (594) (896) Total mortgage loans$(2,757) (8)bps $(3,997) (12)bps $(5,562) (18)bps__________(1) Calculated based on interest income not recognized divided by total interest-earning assets, expressed in basis points.For a discussion of the interest income from the assets we have purchased and the interest expense from the debt we have issued, see the discussion of our net interest income in “Business Segment Results—Capital Markets Group Results.” Fee and Other IncomeFee and other income includes transaction fees, technology fees, multifamily fees and other miscellaneous income. Fee and other income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily as a result of funds we received in 2013 pursuant to settlement agreements resolving certain lawsuits relating to private-label mortgage-related securities sold to us. See “Legal Proceedings—FHFA Private-Label Mortgage-Related Securities Litigation” for additional information. In addition, we recognized higher yield maintenance fees in 2013 related to large multifamily loan prepayments during the year.Investment Gains, NetInvestment gains, net include gains and losses recognized from the sale of available-for-sale (“AFS”) securities and gains and losses recognized on the securitization of loans and securities from our retained mortgage portfolio. Investment gains increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to a significantly higher volume of sales of non-agency mortgage-related securities in 2013 to meet an objective of FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard. See “Business Segment Results—Capital Markets Group Results—The Capital Markets Group’s Mortgage Portfolio” and “Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis—Investments in Mortgage-Related Securities” for additional information on our mortgage-related securities portfolio and requirements that we reduce our retained mortgage portfolio.Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investment SecuritiesNet other-than-temporary impairments decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 and increased in 2012 compared with 2011. In 2013, net other-than-temporary impairments were primarily driven by a change in our intent to sell certain securities. As a result, we recognized the entire difference between the amortized cost basis of these securities and their fair value as net other-than-temporary impairments. In 2012, net other-than-temporary impairments were primarily driven by an update to the assumptions used to project cash flow estimates on our Alt-A and subprime private-label securities, which resulted in a significant decrease in the net present value of projected cash flows on these securities. In 2011, net other-than-temporary impairments were primarily driven by an increase in collateral losses on certain Alt-A private-label securities, which resulted in a decrease in the present value of our cash flow projections on these Alt-A private-label securities, partially offset by an out-of-period adjustment in 2011.73Fair Value Gains (Losses), NetTable 11 displays the components of our fair value gains and losses.Table 11: Fair Value Gains (Losses), Net For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions)Risk management derivatives fair value gains (losses) attributable to: Net contractual interest expense accruals on interest rate swaps$(767) $(1,430) $(2,185)Net change in fair value during the period 3,546 (508) (3,954)Total risk management derivatives fair value gains (losses), net2,779 (1,938) (6,139)Mortgage commitment derivatives fair value gains (losses), net501 (1,688) (423)Total derivatives fair value gains (losses), net3,280 (3,626) (6,562)Trading securities gains, net260 1,004 266Other, net(1)(581) (355) (325)Fair value gains (losses), net$2,959 $(2,977) $(6,621) 2013 2012 20115-year swap rate: As of March 310.95% 1.27% 2.47%As of June 301.57 0.97 2.03As of September 301.54 0.76 1.26As of December 311.79 0.86 1.22__________(1) Consists of debt fair value gains (losses), net; debt foreign exchange gains (losses), net; and mortgage loans fair value gains (losses), net.We expect volatility from period to period in our financial results due to changes in market conditions that result in periodic fluctuations in the estimated fair value of financial instruments that we mark to market through our earnings. These instruments include derivatives and trading securities. The estimated fair value of our derivatives and trading securities may fluctuate substantially from period to period because of changes in interest rates, credit spreads and interest rate volatility, as well as activity related to these financial instruments. While the estimated fair value of our derivatives that serve to mitigate certain risk exposures may fluctuate, some of the financial instruments that generate these exposures are not recorded at fair value in our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, the accounting volatility resulting from market fluctuations related to our derivatives and trading securities may not be indicative of the economics of these transactions.Risk Management Derivatives Fair Value Gains (Losses), NetRisk management derivative instruments are an integral part of our interest rate risk management strategy. We supplement our issuance of debt securities with derivative instruments to further reduce duration risk, which includes prepayment risk. We purchase option-based risk management derivatives to economically hedge prepayment risk. In cases where options obtained through callable debt issuances are not needed for risk management derivative purposes, we may sell options in the over-the-counter derivatives market in order to offset the options obtained in the callable debt. Our principal purpose in using derivatives is to manage our aggregate interest rate risk profile within prescribed risk parameters. We generally use only derivatives that are relatively liquid and straightforward to value. We consider the cost of derivatives used in our management of interest rate risk to be an inherent part of the cost of funding and hedging our mortgage investments and economically similar to the interest expense that we recognize on the debt we issue to fund our mortgage investments. We present, by derivative instrument type, the fair value gains and losses on our derivatives for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 in “Note 9, Derivative Instruments.”74The primary factors affecting the fair value of our risk management derivatives include the following: •Changes in interest rates: Our derivatives, in combination with our issuances of debt securities, are intended to offset changes in the fair value of our mortgage assets. Mortgage assets tend to increase in value when interest rates decrease and, conversely, decrease in value when interest rates rise. Pay-fixed swaps decrease in value and receive-fixed swaps increase in value as swap rates decrease (with the opposite being true when swap rates increase). Because the composition of our pay-fixed and receive-fixed derivatives varies across the yield curve, the overall fair value gains and losses of our derivatives are sensitive to flattening and steepening of the yield curve. •Implied interest rate volatility: Our derivatives portfolio includes option-based derivatives, which we purchase to economically hedge the prepayment option embedded in our mortgage investments and sell to offset the options obtained through callable debt issuances when those options are not needed for risk management purposes. A key variable in estimating the fair value of option-based derivatives is implied volatility, which reflects the market’s expectation of the magnitude of future changes in interest rates. Assuming all other factors are held equal, including interest rates, a decrease in implied volatility would reduce the fair value of our purchased options and an increase in implied volatility would increase the fair value of our purchased options, while having the opposite effect on the options that we have sold. •Changes in our derivative activity: As interest rates change, we are likely to rebalance our portfolio to manage our interest rate exposure. As interest rates decrease, expected mortgage prepayments are likely to increase, which reduces the duration of our mortgage investments. In this scenario, we generally will rebalance our existing portfolio to manage this risk by adding receive-fixed swaps, which shortens the duration of our liabilities. Conversely, when interest rates increase and the duration of our mortgage assets increases, we are likely to add pay-fixed swaps, which have the effect of extending the duration of our liabilities. We use derivatives to rebalance our portfolio when the duration of our mortgage assets changes as the result of mortgage purchases or sales. We also use foreign-currency swaps to manage the foreign exchange impact of our foreign currency-denominated debt issuances. •Time value of purchased options: Intrinsic value and time value are the two primary components of an option’s price. The intrinsic value is determined by the amount by which the market rate exceeds or is below the exercise, or strike rate, such that the option is in-the-money. The time value of an option is the amount by which the price of an option exceeds its intrinsic value. Time decay refers to the diminishing value of an option over time as less time remains to exercise the option. We recognized risk management derivative fair value gains in 2013 primarily as a result of increases in the fair value of our pay-fixed derivatives as longer-term swap rates increased during the year. We recognized risk management derivatives fair value losses in 2012 and 2011 primarily as a result of decreases in the fair value of our pay-fixed derivatives due to declines in swap rates during each of these years. Risk management derivative fair value losses in 2011 were greater than the losses in 2012, primarily due to a significant decline in swap rates in 2011 compared with a more modest decline in swap rates in 2012.Because risk management derivatives are an important part of our interest rate risk management strategy, it is important to evaluate the impact of our derivatives in the context of our overall interest rate risk profile and in conjunction with the other mark-to-market gains and losses presented in Table 11. For additional information on our use of derivatives to manage interest rate risk, including the economic objective of our use of various types of derivative instruments, changes in our derivatives activity and the outstanding notional amounts, see “Risk Management—Market Risk Management, Including Interest Rate Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management.” Mortgage Commitment Derivatives Fair Value Gains (Losses), NetCertain commitments to purchase or sell mortgage-related securities and to purchase single-family mortgage loans are generally accounted for as derivatives. For open mortgage commitment derivatives, we include changes in their fair value in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). When derivative purchase commitments settle, we include the fair value of the commitment on the settlement date in the cost basis of the loan or security we purchase. When derivative commitments to sell securities settle, we include the fair value of the commitment on the settlement date in the cost basis of the security we sell. Purchases of securities issued by our consolidated MBS trusts are treated as extinguishments of debt; we recognize the fair value of the commitment on the settlement date as a component of debt extinguishment gains and losses. Sales of securities issued by our consolidated MBS trusts are treated as issuances of consolidated debt; we recognize the fair value of the commitment on the settlement date as a component of debt in the cost basis of the debt issued.75We recognized fair value gains on our mortgage commitments in 2013 primarily due to gains on commitments to sell mortgage-related securities primarily driven by interest rates increasing during the commitment period. We recognized fair value losses on our mortgage commitments in 2012 and 2011 primarily due to losses on commitments to sell mortgage-related securities as a result of interest rates decreasing during the commitment period. Mortgage commitment derivative fair value losses in 2012 were greater than the losses in 2011, primarily as a result of (1) a higher volume of net commitments to sell mortgage-related securities in 2012 and (2) a further increase in prices driven by the Federal Reserve’s announcement that it would increase its MBS purchases from financial institutions beginning in September 2012. Trading Securities Gains, NetThe estimated fair value of our trading securities may fluctuate substantially from period-to-period primarily due to changes in interest rates and credit spreads. Gains from trading securities in 2013 were primarily driven by higher prices on Alt-A and subprime private-label securities due to narrowing of credit spreads on these securities, as well as improvements in the credit outlook of certain financial guarantors of these securities. These gains were partially offset by losses on commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) and agency securities due to lower prices resulting from higher interest rates.Gains from our trading securities in 2012 were primarily driven by the narrowing of credit spreads on CMBS. Gains from our trading securities in 2011 were primarily driven by higher prices on our CMBS as a result of significant narrowing of the U.S. Treasury yield curve and swap yield curve spreads offset by widening credit spreads.We provide additional information on our trading and available-for-sale securities in “Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis—Investments in Mortgage-Related Securities.” We disclose the sensitivity of changes in the fair value of our trading securities to changes in interest rates in “Risk Management—Market Risk Management, Including Interest Rate Risk Management—Measurement of Interest Rate Risk.”Administrative ExpensesAdministrative expenses increased in 2013 compared with 2012 driven by costs related to the execution of FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard objectives, as well as costs associated with FHFA’s private-label mortgage-related securities litigation. These costs more than offset reductions in our ongoing operating costs.Administrative expenses were flat in 2012 compared with 2011, as continued efforts to reduce ongoing operating costs were offset by additional costs related to the execution of FHFA’s strategic goals. We expect that our administrative expenses may increase in 2014 compared with 2013 as we continue to execute on our strategic goals.Credit-Related (Income) ExpenseWe refer to our (benefit) provision for loan losses and guaranty losses collectively as our “(benefit) provision for credit losses.” Credit-related (income) expense consists of our (benefit) provision for credit losses and foreclosed property (income) expense.(Benefit) Provision for Credit LossesOur total loss reserves provide for an estimate of credit losses incurred in our guaranty book of business, including concessions we granted borrowers upon modification of their loans, as of each balance sheet date. We establish our loss reserves through our provision for credit losses for losses that we believe have been incurred and will eventually be reflected over time in our charge-offs. When we reduce our loss reserves, we recognize a benefit for credit losses. When we determine that a loan is uncollectible, typically upon foreclosure, we recognize a charge-off against our loss reserves. We record recoveries of previously charged-off amounts as a reduction to charge-offs.Table 12 displays the components of our total loss reserves and our total fair value losses previously recognized on loans purchased out of unconsolidated MBS trusts reflected in our consolidated balance sheets. Because these fair value losses lowered our recorded loan balances, we have fewer inherent losses in our guaranty book of business and consequently require lower total loss reserves. For these reasons, we consider these fair value losses as an “effective reserve,” apart from our total loss reserves, to the extent that we expect to realize these amounts as credit losses on the acquired loans in the future. The fair value losses shown in Table 12 represent credit losses we expect to realize in the future or amounts that will eventually be recovered, either through net interest income for loans that cure or through foreclosed property income for loans where the sale of the collateral exceeds our recorded investment in the loan. We exclude these fair value losses from our credit loss calculation as described in “Credit Loss Performance Metrics.” 76Table 12: Total Loss Reserves As of December 31, 2013 2012 (Dollars in millions)Allowance for loan losses$43,846 $58,795Reserve for guaranty losses(1)1,449 1,231Combined loss reserves45,295 60,026Allowance for accrued interest receivable1,156 1,737Allowance for preforeclosure property taxes and insurance receivable(2)839 866Total loss reserves47,290 62,629Fair value losses previously recognized on acquired credit-impaired loans(3)11,316 13,694Total loss reserves and fair value losses previously recognized on acquired credit-impaired loans$58,606 $76,323__________(1) Amount included in “Other liabilities” in our consolidated balance sheets.(2) Amount included in “Other assets” in our consolidated balance sheets.(3) Represents the fair value losses on loans purchased out of unconsolidated MBS trusts reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.Table 13 displays changes in the total allowance for loan losses, reserve for guaranty losses and the total combined loss reserves for the periods indicated.77Table 13: Allowance for Loan Losses and Reserve for Guaranty Losses (Combined Loss Reserves) For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions)Changes in combined loss reserves: Allowance for loan losses: Beginning balance$58,795 $72,156 $61,556 $9,925 $2,772Adoption of consolidation accounting guidance(1)— — — 43,576 —(Benefit) provision for loan losses(9,316) (1,191) 25,914 24,702 9,569Charge-offs(2)(8,867) (15,139) (21,170) (22,878) (2,245)Recoveries2,626 1,784 5,272 3,077 214Other(3)608 1,185 584 3,154 (385)Ending balance$43,846 $58,795 $72,156 $61,556 $9,925Reserve for guaranty losses: Beginning balance$1,231 $994 $323 $54,430 $21,830Adoption of consolidation accounting guidance(1)— — — (54,103) —Provision for guaranty losses367 339 804 194 63,057Charge-offs(150) (174) (138) (203) (31,142)Recoveries1 72 5 5 685Ending balance$1,449 $1,231 $994 $323 $54,430Combined loss reserves: Beginning balance$60,026 $73,150 $61,879 $64,355 $24,602Adoption of consolidation accounting guidance(1)— — — (10,527) —Total (benefit) provision for credit losses(8,949) (852) 26,718 24,896 72,626Charge-offs(2)(9,017) (15,313) (21,308) (23,081) (33,387)Recoveries2,627 1,856 5,277 3,082 899Other(3)608 1,185 584 3,154 (385)Ending balance$45,295 $60,026 $73,150 $61,879 $64,355Attribution of charge-offs: Charge-offs attributable to guaranty book of business$(8,979) $(15,249) $(21,192) $(22,901) $(12,832)Charge-offs attributable to fair value losses on acquired credit-impaired and HomeSaver Advance loans(38) (64) (116) (180) (20,555)Total charge-offs$(9,017) $(15,313) $(21,308) $(23,081) $(33,387)Allocation of combined loss reserves: Balance at end of each period attributable to: Single-family$44,705 $58,809 $71,512 $60,163 $62,312Multifamily590 1,217 1,638 1,716 2,043Total$45,295 $60,026 $73,150 $61,879 $64,355Single-family and multifamily combined loss reserves as a percentage of applicable guaranty book of business: Single-family1.55% 2.08% 2.52% 2.10% 2.14%Multifamily0.29 0.59 0.84 0.91 1.10Combined loss reserves as a percentage of: Total guaranty book of business1.47% 1.97% 2.41% 2.03% 2.08%Recorded investment in nonaccrual loans(4)54.18 52.27 51.10 36.21 30.3378_________(1) Because we recognized mortgage loans held by newly consolidated trusts upon adoption of the consolidation accounting guidance on January 1, 2010, we increased our “Allowance for loan losses” and decreased our “Reserve for guaranty losses.” The impact at the transition date is reported as “Adoption of consolidation accounting guidance.” The decrease in the combined loss reserves on the adoption date represents a difference in the methodology used to estimate incurred losses for our allowance for loan losses as compared with our reserve for guaranty losses and our separate presentation of the portion of the allowance related to accrued interest as our “Allowance for accrued interest receivable.”(2) Includes accrued interest of $436 million, $872 million, $1.4 billion, $2.4 billion and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.(3) Amounts represent the net activity recorded in our allowances for accrued interest receivable and preforeclosure property taxes and insurance receivable from borrowers. The (benefit) provision for credit losses, charge-offs and recoveries activity included in this table reflects all changes for both the allowance for loan losses and the valuation allowances for accrued interest and preforeclosure property taxes and insurance receivable that relate to the mortgage loans.(4) Includes off-balance sheet loans in unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts that would meet our criteria for nonaccrual status if the loans had been on-balance sheet.Our benefit or provision for credit losses continues to be a key driver of our results for each period presented. The amount of our benefit or provision for credit losses varies from period to period based on changes in actual and expected home prices, borrower payment behavior, the types and volumes of loss mitigation activities and foreclosures completed, and actual and estimated recoveries from our lender and mortgage insurer counterparties. See “Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk Management” for information on mortgage insurers and outstanding mortgage seller and servicer repurchase obligations. In addition, our benefit or provision for credit losses and our loss reserves can be impacted by updates to the assumptions and data used in determining our allowance for loan losses.We recognized a benefit for credit losses of $8.9 billion in 2013 and $852 million in 2012. The following factors contributed to our benefit for credit losses in 2013:•Home prices increased by 8.8% in 2013 compared with an increase of 4.2% in 2012. Higher home prices decrease the likelihood that loans will default and reduce the amount of credit loss on loans that default, which reduces our total loss reserves and provision for credit losses.•The number of our seriously delinquent single-family loans declined 27% to approximately 419,000 as of December 31, 2013 from approximately 577,000 as of December 31, 2012 and the number of “early stage” delinquent loans (loans that are 30 to 89 days past due) declined 18% to approximately 375,000 as of December 31, 2013 from approximately 459,000 as of December 31, 2012. The reduction in the number of delinquent loans was primarily the result of home retention solutions, foreclosure alternatives and completed foreclosures, and our efforts since 2009 to improve our underwriting standards and the credit quality of our single-family guaranty book of business. A decline in the number of loans becoming delinquent or seriously delinquent reduces our total loss reserves and provision for credit losses.•Sales prices on dispositions of our REO properties improved in 2013 compared with 2012. We received net proceeds from our single-family REO sales equal to 67% of the loans’ unpaid principal balance in 2013 compared with 59% in 2012. The increase in sales prices contributed to a reduction in the single-family initial charge-off severity rate to 24.2% for 2013 from 30.7% for 2012. The decrease in our charge-off severity rate indicates a lower amount of expected credit loss at foreclosure and, accordingly, results in a lower provision for credit losses.•In the second quarter of 2013, we updated the assumptions and data used to estimate our allowance for loan losses for individually impaired single-family loans, which resulted in a $2.2 billion decrease to our allowance for loan losses. For additional information on this update, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Total Loss Reserves—Single-Family Loss Reserves.” The factors that contributed to our benefit for credit losses in 2013 were partially offset by lower discounted cash flow projections on our individually impaired loans due to increasing mortgage interest rates in 2013. Higher mortgage interest rates lengthen the expected lives of modified loans, which increases the impairment on these loans and results in an increase to the provision for credit losses. Conversely, in 2012, mortgage interest rates declined, causing higher discounted cash flow projections on our individually impaired loans, which resulted from shortened expected lives on modified loans and lower impairment on these loans.We recognized a benefit for credit losses in 2012 compared with a provision for credit losses in 2011 primarily due to: (1) an increase in home prices in 2012 compared with a home price decline in 2011; (2) an increase in sales prices of our REO properties; and (3) a continued reduction in the number of delinquent loans in our single-family guaranty book of business.79The improvement in our credit results in 2012 was partially offset by a $3.5 billion increase in our provision for credit losses due to changes in our assumptions and data used in calculating our loss reserves and a $1.1 billion increase in our provision for credit losses due to a change in our accounting for loans to certain borrowers who have received bankruptcy relief, which led to an increase in the number of loans we classify as TDRs.We discuss our expectations regarding our future loss reserves in “Executive Summary—Outlook—Loss Reserves.”Loss Reserves Concentration AnalysisCertain loan categories have contributed disproportionately to our single-family loss reserves, including loans related to higher-risk product types, such as Alt-A loans, and loans originated in 2005 through 2008. Our Alt-A loans accounted for approximately 26% of our total single-family loss reserves as of December 31, 2013, compared with approximately 27% as of December 31, 2012. Our 2005 to 2008 loan vintages accounted for approximately 84% of our total single-family loss reserves as of December 31, 2013, compared with approximately 85% as of December 31, 2012. See “Note 6, Financial Guarantees” for additional information regarding our Alt-A loans and 2005 to 2008 loan vintages as a percentage of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business.Troubled Debt Restructurings and Nonaccrual LoansTable 14 displays the composition of loans restructured in a TDR that are on accrual status, loans on nonaccrual status and off-balance sheet loans in unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts which would meet our criteria for nonaccrual status if the loans had been on-balance sheet. The table includes held-for-investment and held-for-sale mortgage loans. For information on the impact of TDRs and other individually impaired loans on our allowance for loan losses, see “Note 3, Mortgage Loans.” For activity related to our single-family TDRs, see Table 46 in “MD&A—Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk Management.”Table 14: Troubled Debt Restructurings and Nonaccrual Loans As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions)TDRs on accrual status(1) Single-family$140,512 $135,196 $107,991 $81,767 $9,880Multifamily715 868 806 935 —Total TDRs on accrual status$141,227 $136,064 $108,797 $82,702 $9,880Nonaccrual loans Single-family$81,355 $112,555 $140,234 $169,775 $36,764Multifamily2,209 2,206 2,764 1,013 832Total nonaccrual loans$83,564 $114,761 $142,998 $170,788 $37,596Other(2)$42 $72 $154 $89 $174,588Accruing on-balance sheet loans past due 90 days or more(3)$719 $3,580 $768 $896 $612 For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions)Interest related to on-balance sheet TDRs and nonaccrual loans: Interest income forgone(4) $6,805 $7,554 $8,224 $8,185 $1,341 Interest income recognized for the period(5) 5,915 6,442 6,598 7,995 1,206 __________(1) Includes loans to certain borrowers who have received bankruptcy relief and therefore are classified as TDRs and HomeSaver Advance first-lien loans on accrual status.(2) Consists of off-balance sheet loans in unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts that would meet our criteria for nonaccrual status if the loans had been on-balance sheet.(3) Recorded investment in loans that, as of the end of each period, are 90 days or more past due and continuing to accrue interest. As of December 31, 2012, includes loans with a recorded investment of $2.8 billion which were repurchased in January 2013 pursuant to our resolution agreement with Bank of America. These loans were returned to accrual status to reflect the change in our assessment of 80collectibility resulting from this agreement. Also includes loans insured or guaranteed by the U.S. government and loans for which we have recourse against the seller in the event of a default.(4) Represents the amount of interest income we did not record but would have recorded during the period for on-balance sheet nonaccrual loans and TDRs on accrual status as of the end of each period had the loans performed according to their original contractual terms.(5) Represents interest income recognized during the period for on-balance sheet loans classified as either nonaccrual loans or TDRs on accrual status as of the end of each period. Includes primarily amounts accrued while the loans were performing and cash payments received on nonaccrual loans.Foreclosed Property (Income) Expense Foreclosed property income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to the recognition of compensatory fee income related to servicing matters, gains resulting from resolution agreements reached in 2013 related to representation and warranty matters and an improvement in sales prices on dispositions of our REO properties. Compensatory fees are amounts we charge our primary servicers for servicing delays within their control when they fail to comply with established loss mitigation and foreclosure timelines as required by our Servicing Guide, which sets forth our policies and procedures related to servicing our single-family mortgages.We recognized foreclosed property income in 2012 compared with foreclosed property expense in 2011 primarily due to: (1) improved sales prices on dispositions of our REO properties in 2012, resulting from strong demand in markets with limited REO supply and (2) the recognition of compensatory fee income in 2012.Credit Loss Performance MetricsOur credit-related (income) expense should be considered in conjunction with our credit loss performance metrics. Our credit loss performance metrics, however, are not defined terms within GAAP and may not be calculated in the same manner as similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Because management does not view changes in the fair value of our mortgage loans as credit losses, we adjust our credit loss performance metrics for the impact associated with our acquisition of credit-impaired loans from unconsolidated MBS trusts. We also exclude interest forgone on nonaccrual loans and TDRs, other-than-temporary impairment losses resulting from deterioration in the credit quality of our mortgage-related securities and accretion of interest income on acquired credit-impaired loans from credit losses. We believe that credit loss performance metrics may be useful to investors as the losses are presented as a percentage of our book of business and have historically been used by analysts, investors and other companies within the financial services industry. Moreover, by presenting credit losses with and without the effect of fair value losses associated with the acquisition of credit-impaired loans, investors are able to evaluate our credit performance on a more consistent basis among periods. Table 15 displays the components of our credit loss performance metrics as well as our average single-family and multifamily initial charge-off severity rates.Table 15: Credit Loss Performance Metrics For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Amount Ratio(1) Amount Ratio(1) Amount Ratio(1) (Dollars in millions)Charge-offs, net of recoveries $6,390 20.9bps $13,457 44.2bps $16,031 52.4bpsForeclosed property (income) expense (2,839) (9.3) (254) (0.8) 780 2.6 Credit losses including the effect of fair value losses on acquired credit-impaired loans 3,551 11.6 13,203 43.4 16,811 55.0 Plus: Impact of acquired credit-impaired loans on charge-offs and foreclosed property (income) expense(2) 953 3.1 1,446 4.8 1,926 6.3 Credit losses and credit loss ratio $4,504 14.7bps $14,649 48.2bps $18,737 61.3bpsCredit losses attributable to: Single-family $4,452 $14,392 $18,346 Multifamily 52 257 391 Total $4,504 $14,649 $18,737 Single-family initial charge-off severity rate (3) 24.22% 30.71% 34.82%Multifamily initial charge-off severity rate (3) 23.56% 37.43% 37.10%81__________(1) Basis points are based on the amount for each line item presented divided by the average guaranty book of business during the period.(2) Includes fair value losses from acquired credit-impaired loans.(3) Single-family and multifamily rates exclude fair value losses on credit-impaired loans acquired from MBS trusts and any costs, gains or losses associated with REO after initial acquisition through final disposition. Single-family rate excludes charge-offs from short sales and third-party sales. Multifamily rate is net of any risk sharing agreements.Credit losses decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to the recognition of compensatory fee income in 2013 related to servicing matters and gains resulting from resolution agreements reached in 2013 related to representation and warranty matters. Also contributing to the decrease in credit losses in 2013 was an improvement in sales prices on dispositions of our REO properties and lower REO acquisitions primarily driven by lower delinquencies. The decrease in credit losses in 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to improved actual home prices and sales prices of our REO properties and lower REO acquisitions primarily due to the continued slow pace of foreclosures in 2012.We discuss our expectations regarding our future credit losses in “Executive Summary—Outlook—Credit Losses.”Table 16 displays concentrations of our credit losses based on geography, credit characteristics and loan vintages.Table 16: Credit Loss Concentration Analysis Percentage of Single-Family Conventional Guaranty Book of Business Outstanding(1) Percentage of Single-Family Credit Losses(2) As of December 31, For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011Geographical Distribution: California20% 19% 19% 5% 18% 27%Florida6 6 6 29 21 11Illinois4 4 4 13 10 4All other states70 71 71 53 51 58Select higher-risk product features(3)23 22 21 55 54 56Vintages: 2005 - 200815 22 31 78 82 83All other vintages85 78 69 22 18 17__________(1) Calculated based on the unpaid principal balance of loans, where we have detailed loan-level information, for each category divided by the unpaid principal balance of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business.(2) Excludes the impact of recoveries resulting from resolution agreements related to representation and warranty matters and compensatory fee income related to servicing matters, which have not been allocated to specific loans.(3) Includes Alt-A loans, subprime loans, interest-only loans, loans with original LTV ratios greater than 90% and loans with FICO credit scores less than 620.Our new single-family book of business accounted for approximately 10% of our single-family credit losses for 2013, excluding the impact of recoveries resulting from resolution agreements related to representation and warranty matters and compensatory fee income related to servicing matters, which have not been allocated to specific loans. Credit losses on mortgage loans typically do not peak until the third through sixth years following origination; however, this range can vary based on many factors, including changes in macroeconomic conditions and foreclosure timelines. We provide more detailed credit performance information, including serious delinquency rates by geographic region and foreclosure activity, in “Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Mortgage Credit Risk Management.”Regulatory Hypothetical Stress Test ScenarioUnder a September 2005 agreement with FHFA’s predecessor, OFHEO, we are required to disclose on a quarterly basis the present value of the change in future expected credit losses from our existing single-family guaranty book of business from an immediate 5% decline in single-family home prices for the entire United States followed by a return to the average of the 82possible growth rate paths used in our internal credit pricing models. The sensitivity results represent the difference between future expected credit losses under our base case scenario, which is derived from our internal home price path forecast, and a scenario that assumes an instantaneous nationwide 5% decline in home prices.Table 17 displays the credit loss sensitivities as of the dates indicated for first-lien single-family loans that are in our retained mortgage portfolio or underlying Fannie Mae MBS, before and after consideration of projected credit risk sharing proceeds, such as private mortgage insurance claims and other credit enhancements.Table 17: Single-Family Credit Loss Sensitivity(1) As of December 31, 2013 2012 (Dollars in millions)Gross single-family credit loss sensitivity$9,109 $13,508Less: Projected credit risk sharing proceeds(1,062) (2,206)Net single-family credit loss sensitivity$8,047 $11,302Single-family loans in our retained mortgage portfolio and loans underlying Fannie Mae MBS$2,828,395 $2,765,460Single-family net credit loss sensitivity as a percentage of outstanding single-family loans in our retained mortgage portfolio and Fannie Mae MBS0.28% 0.41% __________(1) Represents total economic credit losses, which consist of credit losses and forgone interest. Calculations are based on 98% of our total single-family guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. The mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities that are included in these estimates consist of: (a) single-family Fannie Mae MBS (whether held in our retained mortgage portfolio or held by third parties), excluding certain whole loan REMICs and private-label wraps; (b) single-family mortgage loans, excluding mortgages secured only by second liens, subprime mortgages, manufactured housing chattel loans and reverse mortgages; and (c) long-term standby commitments. We expect the inclusion in our estimates of the excluded products may impact the estimated sensitivities set forth in this table.The decrease in the projected credit loss sensitivities in 2013 compared with 2012 was the result of the increase in home prices and lower projected default expectations for loans in our single-family guaranty book of business. Because these sensitivities represent hypothetical scenarios, they should be used with caution. Our regulatory stress test scenario is limited in that it assumes an instantaneous uniform 5% nationwide decline in home prices, which is not representative of the historical pattern of changes in home prices. Changes in home prices generally vary on a regional, as well as a local, basis. In addition, these stress test scenarios are calculated independently without considering changes in other interrelated assumptions, such as unemployment rates or other economic factors, which are likely to have a significant impact on our future expected credit losses.Other Non-Interest ExpensesOther non-interest expenses decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to increased gains from partnership investments and debt extinguishment gains in 2013 compared with debt extinguishment losses in 2012. These decreases in non-interest expenses were partially offset by an increase in TCCA fees in 2013.Gains from partnership investments increased in 2013 compared with 2012 as the continued strength of national multifamily market fundamentals resulted in improved property-level operating performance and increased gains on the sale of investments. Debt extinguishment gains in 2013 were primarily driven by an increase in interest rates in 2013 compared with debt extinguishment losses in 2012 driven by a decrease in interest rates in 2012. See “Fair Value Gains (Losses), Net—Mortgage Commitment Derivatives Fair Value Gains (Losses), Net” for additional information on how the fair value of our commitments impacts debt extinguishments when we purchase securities.TCCA fees increased in 2013 compared with 2012 due to an increase in the volume of loans in our single-family book of business subject to TCCA provisions. We expect the guaranty fees collected and expenses incurred under the TCCA to continue to increase in the future.Other non-interest expenses increased in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to our obligation to pay fees to Treasury under the TCCA, which began in 2012.83Federal Income Taxes We recognized a benefit for federal income taxes of $45.4 billion in 2013 due to the release of the substantial majority of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, partially offset by our 2013 provision for federal income taxes. We did not recognize a provision or a benefit for federal income taxes in 2012. We recognized a benefit for federal income taxes of $90 million for 2011 because we effectively settled our 2007 and 2008 tax years with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) in 2011. We discuss federal income taxes and the factors that led us to release our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets in “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Deferred Tax Assets” and “Note 10, Income Taxes.” BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTSWe provide a more complete description of our business segments in “Business—Business Segments.” Results of our three business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it were a stand-alone business. Under our segment reporting structure, the sum of the results for our three business segments does not equal our consolidated results of operations as we separate the activity related to our consolidated trusts from the results generated by our three segments. In addition, because we apply accounting methods that differ from our consolidated results for segment reporting purposes, we include an eliminations/adjustments category to reconcile our business segment results and the activity related to our consolidated trusts to our consolidated results of operations. We describe the management reporting and allocation process used to generate our segment results in “Note 13, Segment Reporting.”In this section, we summarize our segment results for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 in the tables below and provide a comparative discussion of these results. This section should be read together with our comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations in “Consolidated Results of Operations.” See “Note 13, Segment Reporting” for a reconciliation of our segment results to our consolidated results.84SummaryTable 18 displays a summary of our segment results for 2013, 2012 and 2011.Table 18: Business Segment Summary For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions)Net revenues:(1) Single-Family $11,303 $8,120 $5,675 Multifamily 1,325 1,234 1,064 Capital Markets 11,659 12,667 12,901 Consolidated trusts 5,385 2,024 950 Eliminations/adjustments (3,338) (1,057) (146) Total $26,334 $22,988 $20,444 Net income (loss) attributable to Fannie Mae: Single-Family $48,276 $6,290 $(23,941) Multifamily 10,069 1,511 583 Capital Markets 27,523 14,201 8,999 Consolidated trusts 4,645 1,741 429 Eliminations/adjustments (6,550) (6,519) (2,925) Total $83,963 $17,224 $(16,855) As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions)Total assets: Single-Family $41,206 $17,595 $11,822 Multifamily 10,848 5,182 5,747 Capital Markets 596,436 723,217 836,700 Consolidated trusts 2,812,459 2,749,571 2,676,952 Eliminations/adjustments(2) (190,841) (273,143) (319,737) Total $3,270,108 $3,222,422 $3,211,484 __________(1) Includes net interest income (loss), guaranty fee income (expense), and fee and other income (expense).(2) Includes the elimination of Fannie Mae MBS in the Capital Markets group’s retained mortgage portfolio that are issued by consolidated trusts. Also includes the elimination of the allowance for loan losses, allowance for accrued interest receivable and fair value losses previously recognized on acquired credit impaired loans as they are not treated as assets for Single-Family and Multifamily segment reporting purposes because these allowances and losses relate to loan assets that are held by the Capital Markets segment and consolidated trusts.85Segment ResultsTable 19 displays our segment results for 2013.Table 19: Business Segment Results For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 Business Segments Other Activity/Reconciling Items Single-Family Multifamily Capital Markets Consolidated Trusts(1) Eliminations/ Adjustments(2) Total Results (Dollars in millions) Net interest income (loss)$205 $(74) $9,764 $10,939 $1,570(3) $22,404 Benefit for credit losses8,469 480 — — — 8,949 Net interest income after benefit for credit losses8,674 406 9,764 10,939 1,570 31,353 Guaranty fee income (expense)(4)10,468 1,217 (1,115) (5,233)(5) (5,132)(5) 205(5) Investment gains (losses), net3 21 4,911 (122) (3,622)(6) 1,191 Net other-than-temporary impairments— — (64) — — (64) Fair value (losses) gains, net(10) — 3,148 (722) 543(7) 2,959 Debt extinguishment gains, net— — 27 104 — 131 Gains from partnership investments(8)— 498 — — 19 517 Fee and other income (expense)630 182 3,010 (321) 224 3,725 Administrative expenses(1,706) (280) (559) — — (2,545) Foreclosed property income2,736 103 — — — 2,839 TCCA fees(4)(1,001) — — — — (1,001) Other (expenses) income(628) (2) 20 — (133) (743) Income before federal income taxes19,166 2,145 19,142 4,645 (6,531) 38,567 Benefit for federal income taxes(9)29,110 7,924 8,381 — — 45,415 Net income48,276 10,069 27,523 4,645 (6,531) 83,982 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest— — — — (19)(10) (19) Net income attributable to Fannie Mae$48,276 $10,069 $27,523 $4,645 $(6,550) $83,963 __________(1) Represents activity related to the assets and liabilities of consolidated trusts in our consolidated balance sheets.(2) Represents the elimination of intercompany transactions occurring between the three business segments and our consolidated trusts, as well as other adjustments to reconcile to our consolidated results.(3) Represents the amortization expense of cost basis adjustments on securities in the Capital Markets group’s retained mortgage portfolio that on a GAAP basis are eliminated.(4) Pursuant to the TCCA, effective April 1, 2012, we increased the guaranty fee on all single-family residential mortgages delivered to us on or after that date by 10 basis points, and the incremental revenue must be remitted to Treasury. The resulting revenue is included in guaranty fee income and the expense is recognized in “TCCA fees.” This increase in guaranty fee is also included in the single-family average charged guaranty fee.(5) Represents the guaranty fees paid from consolidated trusts to the Single-Family and Multifamily segments. The adjustment to guaranty fee income in the Eliminations/Adjustments column represents the elimination of the amortization of deferred cash fees related to consolidated trusts that were re-established for segment reporting. Total guaranty fee income related to unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts and other credit enhancement arrangements is included in fee and other income in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss).(6) Primarily represents the removal of realized gains and losses on sales of Fannie Mae MBS classified as available-for-sale securities that are issued by consolidated trusts and in the Capital Markets group’s retained mortgage portfolio. The adjustment also includes the 86removal of securitization gains (losses) recognized in the Capital Markets segment relating to portfolio securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale accounting under GAAP.(7) Represents the removal of fair value adjustments on consolidated Fannie Mae MBS classified as trading that are in the Capital Markets group’s retained mortgage portfolio.(8) Gains from partnership investments are included in other expenses in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss).(9) Primarily represents the release of the valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets that generally are directly attributable to each segment based on the nature of the item.(10) Represents the adjustment from equity method accounting to consolidation accounting for partnership investments that are consolidated in our consolidated balance sheets.Single-Family Business ResultsTable 20 displays the financial results of our Single-Family business for the periods indicated. For a discussion of Single-Family credit risk management, including information on serious delinquency rates and loan workouts, see “Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk Management.” The primary source of revenue for our Single-Family business is guaranty fee income. Expenses and other items that impact income or loss primarily include credit-related income (expense), net interest loss, TCCA fees and administrative expenses.Table 20: Single-Family Business Results(1) For the Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (Dollars in millions)Net interest income (loss)(2)$205 $(790) $(2,411) $995 $1,621 Guaranty fee income(3)(4)10,468 8,151 $7,507 2,317 644 Credit-related income (expense)(5)11,205 919 (27,218) 10,286 28,137 TCCA fees(4)(1,001) (238) — (763) (238) Other expenses(6)(1,711) (1,672) (1,925) (39) 253 Income (loss) before federal income taxes19,166 6,370 (24,047) 12,796 30,417 Benefit (provision) for federal income taxes(7)29,110 (80) 106 29,190 (186) Net income (loss) attributable to Fannie Mae$48,276 $6,290 $(23,941) $41,986 $30,231 Other key performance data: Single-family effective guaranty fee rate (in basis points)(4)(8)36.7 28.7 26.2 Single-family average charged guaranty fee on new acquisitions (in basis points)(4)(9)57.4 39.9 28.8 Average single-family guaranty book of business(10)$2,855,821 $2,843,718 $2,864,919 Single-family Fannie Mae MBS issuances(11)$733,111 $827,749 $564,606 __________(1) Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.(2) Includes the cost to reimburse the Capital Markets group for interest income not recognized for loans in our retained mortgage portfolio on nonaccrual status, the cost to reimburse MBS trusts for interest income not recognized for loans in consolidated trusts on nonaccrual status and income from cash payments received on loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status.(3) Guaranty fee income related to unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts and other credit enhancement arrangements is included in fee and other income in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss).(4) Pursuant to the TCCA, effective April 1, 2012, we increased the guaranty fee on all single-family residential mortgages delivered to us on or after that date by 10 basis points, and the incremental revenue must be remitted to Treasury. The resulting revenue is included in guaranty fee income and the expense is recognized in “TCCA fees.” This increase in guaranty fee is also included in the single-family average charged guaranty fee.(5) Consists of the benefit (provision) for credit losses and foreclosed property income (expense).(6) Consists of investment gains (losses), net, fair value losses, net, fee and other income, administrative expenses and other expenses.(7) The benefit for 2013 primarily represents the release of the substantial majority of our valuation allowance against the portion of our deferred tax assets that we attribute to our Single-Family segment based on the nature of the item.87(8) Calculated based on Single-Family segment guaranty fee income divided by the average single-family guaranty book of business, expressed in basis points.(9) Calculated based on the average contractual fee rate for our single-family guaranty arrangements entered into during the period plus the recognition of any upfront cash payments ratably over an estimated average life, expressed in basis points.(10) Our single-family guaranty book of business consists of (a) single-family mortgage loans of Fannie Mae, (b) single-family mortgage loans underlying Fannie Mae MBS, and (c) other credit enhancements that we provide on single-family mortgage assets, such as long-term standby commitments. It excludes non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities held in our retained mortgage portfolio for which we do not provide a guaranty.(11) Consists of unpaid principal balance of Fannie Mae MBS issued and guaranteed by the Single-Family segment during the period. 2013 compared with 2012 Pre-tax income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to an increase in credit-related income and increased guaranty fee income combined with net interest income in 2013 compared with a net interest loss in 2012.Our credit results for 2013 and 2012 were positively impacted by increases in home prices, which resulted in reductions in our loss reserves. The improvement in our credit results in 2013 as compared with 2012 was due in part to a decline in the number of delinquent loans in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business, as well as the recognition of compensatory fee income in 2013 related to servicing matters and gains resulting from resolution agreements reached in 2013 related to representation and warranty matters. In addition, in the second quarter of 2013 we updated the assumptions and data used to estimate our allowance for loan losses for individually impaired single-family loans to reflect faster prepayment and lower default expectations for these loans, which resulted in a decrease to our allowance for loan losses. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Total Loss Reserves—Single-Family Loss Reserves” for additional information. The positive impact of these factors on our credit-related income in 2013 was partially offset by lower discounted cash flow projections on our individually impaired loans due to increasing mortgage interest rates in 2013. Higher mortgage interest rates lengthen the expected lives of modified loans, which increases the impairment on these loans and results in an increase to the provision for credit losses. Conversely, in 2012, mortgage interest rates decreased, resulting in higher discounted cash flow projections on our individually impaired loans, which resulted from shortened expected lives on modified loans and lower impairment on these loans. Our single-family credit-related income represents the substantial majority of our consolidated activity. We provide a discussion of our credit-related income and credit losses in “Consolidated Results of Operations—Credit-Related (Income) Expense.”Guaranty fee income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 due to the cumulative impact of price increases, including a 10 basis point increase on April 1, 2012 mandated by the TCCA and an additional average increase of 10 basis points implemented during the fourth quarter of 2012, and higher amortization income on risk-based fees. In December 2011, Congress enacted the TCCA which, among other provisions, required that we increase our single-family guaranty fees by at least 10 basis points and remit this increase to Treasury, rather than retaining the incremental revenue. This TCCA-related revenue is included in guaranty fee income and the expense is recognized as “TCCA fees.” We expect the guaranty fees collected and expenses incurred under the TCCA to continue to increase in the future. We recognized net interest income in 2013 compared with a net interest loss in 2012 primarily due to the reduction in the amount of interest income not recognized for nonaccrual mortgage loans as the population of delinquent loans declined, as well as our resolution agreement with Bank of America, which resulted in the recognition of unamortized cost basis adjustments on the loans repurchased by Bank of America.Net income in 2013 included a benefit for federal income taxes that primarily represents the release of the substantial majority of the valuation allowance against the portion of our deferred tax assets that we attributed to our single-family segment. Those assets primarily related to the allowance for loan losses and guaranty fee income. See “Note 10, Income Taxes” for additional information.The increase in the single-family average charged guaranty fee on new acquisitions in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to price increases implemented during 2012, as discussed above. In addition, our average single-family charged guaranty fee increased due to an increase in total loan level price adjustments charged on our 2013 acquisitions, as the credit profile of these acquisitions included a higher proportion of loans with higher LTV ratios and a higher proportion of loans with lower FICO credit scores than our 2012 acquisitions. In December 2013, FHFA directed us to further increase our base single-family guaranty fees by 10 basis points and to make changes to our single-family loan level price adjustments. In January 2014, however, FHFA directed us to delay implementation of these guaranty fee changes. FHFA Director Melvin L. Watt stated that he intends to conduct a thorough evaluation of the proposed changes and their likely impact as expeditiously as possible. See “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—Potential Changes to Our Single-Family Guaranty Fee Pricing” for more information on the potential changes to our guaranty fee pricing.88We remained the largest single issuer of mortgage related securities in the secondary market during 2013, with an estimated market share of new single-family mortgage-related securities issuances, which excludes previously securitized mortgages, of 47% for 2013. Despite our continued high market share, our average single-family guaranty book of business remained relatively flat in 2013 compared with 2012, primarily due to U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding remaining relatively flat.2012 compared with 2011Net income in 2012 compared with a net loss in 2011 was primarily due to credit-related income in 2012 compared with credit-related expense in 2011, increased guaranty fee income in 2012 and a reduction in net interest loss in 2012.Credit-related income in 2012 compared with credit-related expense in 2011 was driven primarily by a significant improvement in the profile of our single-family book of business resulting from an increase in actual home prices. Net interest loss decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to a reduction in the amount of interest income not recognized for nonaccrual mortgage loans in our consolidated balance sheet as we continued to complete a high number of loan workouts and foreclosures. In addition, as loans with stronger credit profiles became a larger portion of our single-family guaranty book of business, a smaller percentage of our loans became seriously delinquent in 2012 as compared with 2011.Guaranty fee income increased in 2012 compared with 2011 due to an increase in the amortization of risk-based fees. Additionally, as described above, in December 2011, Congress enacted the TCCA which, among other provisions, required that we increase our single-family guaranty fees by at least 10 basis points and remit this increase to Treasury, rather than retaining the incremental revenue.In addition, single-family net income increased as a result of our resolution agreements with Bank of America related to repurchase requests and compensatory fees. These agreements led to the recognition of $1.3 billion in pre-tax income for 2012.Multifamily Business ResultsMultifamily business results primarily reflect our multifamily guaranty business. Our multifamily business results also include activity relating to our low-income housing tax credit (“LIHTC”) investments and equity investments. Although we are no longer making new LIHTC or equity investments, we continue to make contractually required contributions for our legacy investments. Activity from multifamily products is also reflected in the Capital Markets group results, which include net interest income related to multifamily loans and securities held in our retained mortgage portfolio, gains and losses from the sale of multifamily Fannie Mae MBS, mortgage loans and re-securitizations, and other miscellaneous income.Table 21 displays the financial results of our Multifamily business for the periods indicated. The primary sources of revenue for our Multifamily business are guaranty fee income and fee and other income. Expenses and other items that impact income or loss primarily include credit-related income (expense) and administrative expenses.89Table 21: Multifamily Business Results For the Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (Dollars in millions)Guaranty fee income(1)$1,217 $1,040 $884 $177 $156 Fee and other income182 207 218 (25) (11) Gains from partnership investments(2)498 123 81 375 42 Credit-related income (expense)(3)583 187 (280) 396 467 Other expenses(4)(335) (250) (259) (85) 9 Income before federal income taxes2,145 1,307 644 838 663 Benefit (provision) for federal income taxes(5)7,924 204 (61) 7,720 265 Net income attributable to Fannie Mae$10,069 $1,511 $583 $8,558 $928 Other key performance data: Multifamily effective guaranty fee rate (in basis points)(6)59.6 52.1 46.0 Multifamily credit loss performance ratio (in basis points)(7)2.5 12.9 20.4 Average multifamily guaranty book of business(8)$204,284 $199,797 $191,984 Multifamily new business volume(9)$28,752 $33,763 $24,356 Multifamily units financed from new business volume507,000 559,000 423,000 Multifamily Fannie Mae MBS issuances(10)$31,403 $37,738 $34,066 Multifamily Fannie Mae structured securities issuances (issued by Capital Markets group)$10,185 $10,084 $6,435 Additional net interest income earned on Fannie Mae multifamily mortgage loans and MBS (included in Capital Markets group’s results)(11)$709 $827 $873 Average Fannie Mae multifamily mortgage loans and MBS in Capital Markets group’s portfolio(12)$74,613 $98,025 $110,748 As of December 31, 2013 2012 (Dollars in millions)Multifamily serious delinquency rate 0.10% 0.24%Percentage of multifamily guaranty book of business with credit enhancement 91% 90%Fannie Mae percentage of total multifamily mortgage debt outstanding(13) 21% 22%Multifamily Fannie Mae MBS outstanding(14) $148,724 $128,477 __________(1) Guaranty fee income related to unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS trusts and other credit enhancement arrangements is included in fee and other income in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss).(2) Gains from partnership investments are included in other expenses in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Gains from partnership investments are reported using the equity method of accounting. As a result, net income attributable to noncontrolling interest from partnership investments is not included in income for the Multifamily segment.(3) Consists of the benefit (provision) for credit losses and foreclosed property income (expense).(4) Consists of net interest loss, investment gains, net, administrative expenses and other (expenses) income.(5) The benefit for 2013 primarily represents the release of the substantial majority of our valuation allowance against the portion of our deferred tax assets that we attribute to our Multifamily segment based on the nature of the item.(6) Calculated based on Multifamily segment guaranty fee income divided by the average multifamily guaranty book of business, expressed in basis points.(7) Calculated based on Multifamily segment credit losses divided by the average multifamily guaranty book of business, expressed in basis points.90(8) Our Multifamily guaranty book of business consists of (a) multifamily mortgage loans of Fannie Mae, (b) multifamily mortgage loans underlying Fannie Mae MBS, and (c) other credit enhancements that we provide on multifamily mortgage assets. It excludes non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities held in our retained mortgage portfolio for which we do not provide a guaranty.(9) Reflects unpaid principal balance of multifamily Fannie Mae MBS issued (excluding portfolio securitizations) and multifamily loans purchased during the period.(10) Reflects unpaid principal balance of multifamily Fannie Mae MBS issued during the period. Includes: (a) issuances of new MBS, (b) Fannie Mae portfolio securitization transactions of $2.9 billion, $4.4 billion and $10.0 billion for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and (c) conversions of adjustable-rate loans to fixed-rate loans and discount MBS (“DMBS”) to MBS of $68 million, $215 million and $241 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.(11) Interest expense estimate is based on allocated duration-matched funding costs. Net interest income was reduced by guaranty fees allocated to Multifamily from the Capital Markets group on multifamily loans in our retained mortgage portfolio.(12) Based on unpaid principal balance.(13) Includes mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS guaranteed by the Multifamily segment. Information labeled as of December 31, 2013 is as of September 30, 2013 and is based on the Federal Reserve’s September 2013 mortgage debt outstanding release, the latest date for which the Federal Reserve has estimated mortgage debt outstanding for multifamily residences. Prior period amounts may have been changed to reflect revised historical data from the Federal Reserve.(14) Includes $22.4 billion and $28.1 billion of Fannie Mae multifamily MBS held in the retained mortgage portfolio, the vast majority of which have been consolidated to loans in our consolidated balance sheets, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion of Fannie Mae MBS collateralized by bonds issued by state and local housing finance agencies as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.2013 compared with 2012Pre-tax income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to increased guaranty fee income, increased credit-related income and increased gains from partnership investments.Guaranty fee income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 as we continued to acquire loans with higher guaranty fees. Loans with higher guaranty fees have become a larger part of our multifamily guaranty book of business, while loans with lower guaranty fees continue to liquidate.Credit-related income increased in 2013 compared with 2012, primarily due to improvements in default and loss severity trends and improvements in property valuations.Gains from partnership investments increased in 2013 compared with 2012 as the continued strength of national multifamily market fundamentals resulted in improved property-level operating performance and increased gains on the sale of investments.Net income in 2013 included a benefit for federal income taxes that primarily represents the release of the substantial majority of the valuation allowance against the portion of our deferred tax assets that we attributed to our Multifamily segment. Those assets primarily related to partnership and other equity investment losses and credits. See “Note 10, Income Taxes” for additional information. A benefit for federal income taxes in 2012 was driven by the utilization of tax credits related to LIHTC investments to offset our alternative minimum tax liability resulting from our projected 2012 taxable income.Multifamily new business volume decreased in 2013 compared with 2012. FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard included an objective to reduce the unpaid principal balance of new multifamily business relative to 2012 by at least 10% by tightening underwriting, adjusting pricing and limiting product offerings, while not increasing the proportion of our retained risk.2012 compared with 2011Net income increased in 2012 compared with 2011, primarily due to credit-related income in 2012 compared with credit-related expense in 2011, an increase in guaranty fee income and a benefit for federal income taxes in 2012 as compared with a provision for federal income taxes in 2011.Credit-related income in 2012 was primarily due to reductions to our total loss reserves resulting from an improvement in national multifamily market fundamentals. In comparison, credit-related expense in 2011 was primarily due to underperformance of certain local markets and properties due to localized economic conditions. Guaranty fee income increased in 2012 compared with 2011 as we continued to acquire loans with higher guaranty fees. Our acquisitions of loans with higher guaranty fees became a larger part of our multifamily guaranty book of business, while loans with lower guaranty fees continued to liquidate.91A benefit for federal income taxes of $204 million in 2012 was primarily driven by the utilization of tax credits related to LIHTC investments to offset our alternative minimum tax liability resulting from our 2012 taxable income. In comparison, a provision for federal income taxes was recognized in 2011, resulting from an effective settlement of issues with the Internal Revenue Service relating to tax years 2007 and 2008, which reduced our total corporate tax liability. However, the reduction in our tax liability also reduced the tax credits we were able to use, resulting in a provision for federal income taxes for the Multifamily segment in 2011.Capital Markets Group ResultsTable 22 displays the financial results of our Capital Markets group for the periods indicated. Following the table we discuss the Capital Markets group’s financial results and describe the Capital Markets group’s retained mortgage portfolio. For a discussion of the debt issued by the Capital Markets group to fund its investment activities, see “Liquidity and Capital Management.” For a discussion of the derivative instruments that the Capital Markets group uses to manage interest rate risk, see “Risk Management—Market Risk Management, Including Interest Rate Risk Management” and “Note 9, Derivative Instruments.” The primary sources of revenue for our Capital Markets group are net interest income and fee and other income. Expenses and other items that impact income or loss primarily include fair value gains and losses, investment gains and losses, other-than-temporary impairments, allocated guaranty fee expense and administrative expenses.Table 22: Capital Markets Group Results For the Year Ended December 31, Variance 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (Dollars in millions)Net interest income (1)$9,764 $13,241 $13,920 $(3,477) $(679) Investment gains, net(2)4,911 6,217 3,711 (1,306) 2,506 Net other-than-temporary impairments(64) (711) (306) 647 (405) Fair value gains (losses), net(3)3,148 (3,041) (6,596) 6,189 3,555 Fee and other income3,010 717 478 2,293 239 Other expenses(4)(1,627) (2,098) (2,253) 471 155 Income before federal income taxes19,142 14,325 8,954 4,817 5,371 Benefit (provision) for federal income taxes(5)8,381 (124) 45 8,505 (169) Net income attributable to Fannie Mae$27,523 $14,201 $8,999 $13,322 $5,202 __________(1) Includes contractual interest income, excluding recoveries, on nonaccrual loans received from the Single-Family segment of $3.8 billion, $5.2 billion and $6.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Capital Markets group’s net interest income is reported based on the mortgage-related assets held in the segment’s retained mortgage portfolio and excludes interest income on mortgage-related assets held by consolidated MBS trusts that are owned by third parties and the interest expense on the corresponding debt of such trusts.(2) We include the securities that we own regardless of whether the trust has been consolidated in reporting of gains and losses on securitizations and sales of available-for-sale securities.(3) Includes fair value gains or losses on derivatives and trading securities that we own, regardless of whether the trust has been consolidated.(4) Includes allocated guaranty fee expense, debt extinguishment gains (losses), net, administrative expenses, and other income (expenses). Gains or losses related to the extinguishment of debt issued by consolidated trusts are excluded from the Capital Markets group’s results because purchases of securities are recognized as such.(5) The benefit for 2013 primarily represents the release of the substantial majority of our valuation allowance against the portion of our deferred tax assets that we attribute to our Capital Markets group based on the nature of the item. 2013 compared with 2012Pre-tax income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to fair value gains in 2013 compared with fair value losses in 2012, an increase in fee and other income and a decrease in net other-than-temporary impairments. These factors were partially offset by a decrease in net interest income and a decrease in investment gains.Fair value gains in 2013 were primarily driven by fair value gains on our risk management derivatives. The derivatives fair value gains and losses that are reported for the Capital Markets group are consistent with the gains and losses reported in our 92consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). We discuss our derivatives fair value gains and losses in “Consolidated Results of Operations—Fair Value Gains (Losses), Net.”Fee and other income increased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily as a result of funds we received in 2013 pursuant to settlement agreements resolving certain lawsuits relating to private-label mortgage-related securities sold to us. See “Legal Proceedings—FHFA Private-Label Mortgage-Related Securities Litigation” for additional information. In addition, we recognized higher yield maintenance fees in 2013 related to large multifamily loan prepayments during the year.Net other-than-temporary impairments in 2013 decreased compared with 2012. The net other-than-temporary impairments that are reported for the Capital Markets group are consistent with the amounts reported in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). We discuss our net-other-than-temporary impairment in “Consolidated Results of Operations—Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investment Securities.”The decrease in net interest income in 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in the balance of our retained mortgage-related assets as we continued to reduce our retained mortgage portfolio pursuant to the requirements of our senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury. In addition, during 2013, we sold $21.7 billion of non-agency mortgage-related assets to meet an objective of FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard. See “The Capital Markets Group’s Mortgage Portfolio” for additional information on our retained mortgage portfolio.We supplement our issuance of debt securities with derivative instruments to further reduce duration risk, which includes prepayment risk. The effect of these derivatives, in particular the periodic net interest expense accruals on interest rate swaps, is not reflected in the Capital Markets group’s net interest income but is included in our results as a component of “Fair value gains (losses), net” and is displayed in “Table 11: Fair Value Gains (Losses), Net.” If we had included the economic impact of adding the net contractual interest accruals on our interest rate swaps in our Capital Markets group’s interest expense, the Capital Markets group’s net interest income would have decreased by $767 million in 2013 compared with a decrease of $1.4 billion in 2012.Investment gains decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to decreased gains on the sale of Fannie Mae MBS AFS securities and decreased gains on portfolio securitizations due to an increase in mortgage interest rates in 2013. The decrease in gains during 2013 was partially offset by gains on sales of non-agency mortgage-related securities. Net income in 2013 included a benefit for federal income taxes that primarily represents the release of the substantial majority of the valuation allowance against the portion of our deferred tax assets that we attributed to our Capital Markets group. Those assets primarily related to debt and derivative instruments and mortgage-related assets. See “Note 10, Income Taxes” for additional information.2012 compared with 2011Net income increased in 2012 compared with 2011, primarily due to a decrease in fair value losses and an increase in investment gains, partially offset by a decrease in net interest income and an increase in net other-than-temporary impairments.Fair value losses decreased in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to a decrease in risk management derivatives fair value losses.Investment gains increased in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to a higher volume of portfolio securitizations. In 2012, historically low interest rates and continued high acquisitions of HARP loans contributed to elevated portfolio securitization volumes. The Capital Markets Group’s Mortgage PortfolioThe Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio, which we also refer to as our retained mortgage portfolio, consists of mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities that we own. Mortgage-related securities held by the Capital Markets group include Fannie Mae MBS and non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities. The Fannie Mae MBS that we own are maintained as securities on the Capital Markets group’s balance sheets. The portion of assets held by consolidated MBS trusts that back mortgage-related securities owned by third parties are not included in the Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio.The amount of mortgage assets that we may own is restricted by our senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury. By December 31 of each year, we are required to reduce our mortgage assets to 85% of the maximum allowable amount that we were permitted to own as of December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year, until the amount of our mortgage assets reaches $250 billion in 2018. Under the agreement, the maximum allowable amount of mortgage assets we were permitted to own as of December 31, 2013 was $552.5 billion. The cap on our mortgage assets will decrease to $469.6 billion as of December 31, 2014. As we reduce the size of our retained mortgage portfolio, our revenues generated by 93our retained mortgage portfolio will decrease. As of December 31, 2013, we owned $490.7 billion in mortgage assets, compared with $633.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. Additionally, FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard included an objective to sell 5%, or $21.1 billion, of the non-agency mortgage-related assets we held in our retained mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2012. During 2013, we sold $21.7 billion of non-agency mortgage-related assets in accordance with this objective. For additional information on the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury, see “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements—Treasury Agreements.” For additional information on FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard objectives, see “Executive Compensation—Compensation Discussion and Analysis—Determination of 2013 Compensation—Assessment of Corporate Performance on 2013 Conservatorship Scorecard.”Table 23 displays our Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio activity for the periods indicated.Table 23: Capital Markets Group’s Mortgage Portfolio Activity(1) For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 (Dollars in millions)Mortgage loans: Beginning balance$371,708 $398,271Purchases232,582 261,463Securitizations (2)(207,437) (211,455)Liquidations and sales (3)(82,189) (76,571)Mortgage loans, ending balance314,664 371,708 Mortgage securities: Beginning balance261,346 310,143Purchases (4)36,848 26,874Securitizations (2)207,437 211,455Sales(278,421) (224,208)Liquidations (3)(51,173) (62,918)Mortgage securities, ending balance176,037 261,346Total Capital Markets mortgage portfolio$490,701 $633,054__________(1) Based on unpaid principal balance.(2) Includes portfolio securitization transactions that do not qualify for sale treatment under GAAP.(3) Includes scheduled repayments, prepayments, foreclosures, and lender repurchases.(4) Includes purchases of Fannie Mae MBS issued by consolidated trusts.94Table 24 displays the composition of the Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2013 and 2012.Table 24: Capital Markets Group’s Mortgage Portfolio Composition(1) As of December 31, 2013 2012 (Dollars in millions)Capital Markets group’s mortgage loans: Single-family loans: Government insured or guaranteed $39,399 $40,886 Conventional: Long-term, fixed-rate 215,945 240,791 Intermediate-term, fixed-rate 8,385 10,460 Adjustable-rate 13,171 18,008 Total single-family conventional 237,501 269,259 Total single-family loans 276,900 310,145 Multifamily loans: Government insured or guaranteed 267 312 Conventional: Long-term, fixed-rate 2,687 3,245 Intermediate-term, fixed-rate 27,325 45,662 Adjustable-rate 7,485 12,344 Total multifamily conventional 37,497 61,251 Total multifamily loans 37,764 61,563 Total Capital Markets group’s mortgage loans 314,664 371,708 Capital Markets group’s mortgage-related securities: Fannie Mae 129,841 183,964 Freddie Mac 8,124 11,274 Ginnie Mae 899 1,049 Alt-A private-label securities 11,153 17,079 Subprime private-label securities 12,322 15,093 CMBS 3,983 20,587 Mortgage revenue bonds 6,319 8,486 Other mortgage-related securities 3,396 3,814 Total Capital Markets group’s mortgage-related securities(2) 176,037 261,346 Total Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio $490,701 $633,054 __________(1) Based on unpaid principal balance.(2) The fair value of these mortgage-related securities was $179.5 billion and $269.9 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.The Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio decreased 22% as of December 31, 2013 compared with as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to a decline in purchases, and an increase in sales activity. Sales activity increased in 2013 compared with 2012, primarily due to our sales of mortgage-related assets to meet FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard objective to sell 5% of the non-agency mortgage-related assets held in our retained mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2012. Purchases declined due to fewer purchases of delinquent loans from our MBS trusts in 2013 and a decrease in new loan purchases as a result of increases in mortgage interest rates in the second half of the year.95We expect to continue to purchase loans from MBS trusts as they become four or more consecutive monthly payments delinquent subject to market conditions, economic benefit, servicer capacity, and other factors including the limit on the mortgage assets that we may own pursuant to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury. We purchased approximately 183,000 delinquent loans with an unpaid principal balance of $27.9 billion from our single-family MBS trusts in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the total unpaid principal balance of all loans in single-family MBS trusts that were delinquent as to four or more consecutive monthly payments was $2.2 billion. As a result of purchasing these delinquent loans and our retained mortgage portfolio decreasing to meet the requirements of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement and FHFA’s scorecard objective, an increasing portion of the Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio is comprised of loans restructured in a TDR and nonaccrual loans. The total unpaid principal balance of TDRs that were on accrual status was $136.2 billion or 28% of the Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2013, compared with $130.2 billion or 21% of the Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2012. The population of nonaccrual loans was $75.0 billion or 15% of the Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2013, compared with $100.2 billion or 16% of the Capital Markets group’s mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2012.CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ANALYSISWe seek to structure the composition of our balance sheet and manage its size to comply with our regulatory requirements, to provide adequate liquidity to meet our needs, and to mitigate our interest rate risk and credit risk exposure. The major asset components of our consolidated balance sheets include our mortgage investments and our cash and other investments portfolio. We fund and manage the interest rate risk on these investments through the issuance of debt securities and the use of derivatives. Our debt securities and derivatives represent the major liability components of our consolidated balance sheets.This section provides a discussion of our consolidated balance sheets as of the dates indicated and should be read together with our consolidated financial statements, including the accompanying notes. 96Table 25 displays a summary of our consolidated balance sheets as of the dates indicated.Table 25: Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheets As of December 31, 2013 2012 Variance (Dollars in millions)Assets Cash and cash equivalents and federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell or similar arrangements$58,203 $53,617 $4,586Restricted cash28,995 67,919 (38,924)Investments in securities(1)68,939 103,876 (34,937)Mortgage loans: Of Fannie Mae300,508 355,936 (55,428)Of consolidated trusts2,769,578 2,652,265 117,313Allowance for loan losses(43,846) (58,795) 14,949Mortgage loans, net of allowance for loan losses3,026,240 2,949,406 76,834Deferred tax assets, net47,560 — 47,560Other assets(2)40,171 47,604 (7,433)Total assets$3,270,108 $3,222,422 $47,686Liabilities and equity Debt: Of Fannie Mae$529,434 $615,864 $(86,430)Of consolidated trusts2,705,089 2,573,653 131,436Other liabilities(3)25,994 25,681 313Total liabilities3,260,517 3,215,198 45,319Senior preferred stock117,149 117,149 —Other deficit(4)(107,558) (109,925) 2,367Total equity9,591 7,224 2,367Total liabilities and equity$3,270,108 $3,222,422 $47,686__________(1) Includes $16.3 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $18.0 billion as of December 31, 2012 of non-mortgage-related securities that are included in our other investments portfolio, which we present in “Table 35: Cash and Other Investments Portfolio.”(2) Consists of accrued interest receivable, net; acquired property, net; and other assets.(3) Consists of accrued interest payable and other liabilities.(4) Consists of preferred stock, common stock, accumulated deficit, accumulated other comprehensive income, treasury stock and noncontrolling interest.Cash and Other Investments PortfolioOur cash and other investments portfolio consists of cash and cash equivalents, federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell or similar arrangements, and investments in non-mortgage-related securities. See “Liquidity and Capital Management—Liquidity Management—Cash and Other Investments Portfolio” for additional information on our cash and other investments portfolio.Restricted CashRestricted cash primarily includes unscheduled borrower payments received by the servicer or consolidated trusts due to be remitted to the MBS certificateholders in the subsequent month. Our restricted cash decreased as of December 31, 2013 compared with the balance as of December 31, 2012, resulting from a decrease in unscheduled payments received due to lower payoff volumes in December 2013 compared with December 2012. Investments in Mortgage-Related SecuritiesOur investments in mortgage-related securities are classified in our consolidated balance sheets as either trading or available-for-sale and are measured at fair value. Table 26 displays the fair value of our investments in mortgage-related securities, 97including trading and available-for-sale securities, as of the dates indicated. We classify private-label securities as Alt-A, subprime, CMBS or manufactured housing if the securities were labeled as such when issued. We have also invested in subprime private-label mortgage-related securities that we have resecuritized to include our guaranty (which we refer to as “wraps”). Table 26: Summary of Mortgage-Related Securities at Fair Value As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions)Mortgage-related securities: Fannie Mae $12,443 $16,683 $24,274Freddie Mac 8,681 12,173 15,555Ginnie Mae 995 1,188 1,189Alt-A private-label securities 8,865 12,405 13,032Subprime private-label securities 8,516 8,766 8,866CMBS 4,324 22,923 24,437Mortgage revenue bonds 5,821 8,517 10,978Other mortgage-related securities 2,988 3,271 3,601Total $52,633 $85,926 $101,932The decrease in mortgage-related securities in 2013 was primarily due to the sale of $20.4 billion of non-agency mortgage-related securities to meet an objective of FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard. In addition, in 2013 we continued to reduce our investments in agency MBS as we managed the portfolio reduction requirement of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement. See “Business Segment Results—Capital Markets Group Results—The Capital Markets Group’s Mortgage Portfolio” for additional information related to the reduction in our retained mortgage portfolio.See “Note 5, Investments in Securities” for additional information on our investments in mortgage-related securities, including the composition of our trading and available-for-sale securities at amortized cost and fair value and the gross unrealized gains and losses related to our available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012.Mortgage LoansThe mortgage loans reported in our consolidated balance sheets include loans owned by Fannie Mae and loans held in consolidated trusts and are classified as either held for sale or held for investment. The increase in the balance of mortgage loans, net of the allowance for loan losses, as of December 31, 2013 compared with the balance as of December 31, 2012 was primarily driven by an increase in mortgage loans held for investment due to securitization activity from our lender swap and portfolio securitization programs and a decrease in our allowance for loan losses. For additional information on our mortgage loans, see “Note 3, Mortgage Loans” and for changes in our allowance for loan losses, see “Consolidated Results of Operations—Credit-Related (Income) Expense.” For additional information on the mortgage loan purchase and sale activities reported by our Capital Markets group, see “Business Segment Results—Capital Markets Group Results.” Deferred Tax Assets, NetWe recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for future tax consequences arising from differences between the carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities under GAAP and their respective tax bases, and for net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. The increase in our deferred tax assets in 2013 was primarily driven by the release of the substantial majority of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. For additional information on the release of our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets and our net deferred tax assets, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Deferred Tax Assets” and “Note 10, Income Taxes.”Debt Debt of Fannie Mae is the primary means of funding our mortgage investments. Debt of consolidated trusts represents the amount of Fannie Mae MBS issued from consolidated trusts and held by third-party certificateholders. We provide a summary of the activity of the debt of Fannie Mae and a comparison of the mix between our outstanding short-term and long-98term debt in “Liquidity and Capital Management—Liquidity Management—Debt Funding.” Also see “Note 8, Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt” for additional information on our outstanding debt. The decrease in debt of Fannie Mae in 2013 was primarily driven by lower funding needs, as our retained mortgage portfolio decreased. The increase in the balance of debt of consolidated trusts as of December 31, 2013 compared with the balance as of December 31, 2012 was primarily driven by securitization activity from our lender swap and portfolio securitization programs and sales of Fannie Mae MBS, which are accounted for as reissuances of debt of consolidated trusts in our consolidated balance sheets, since the MBS certificate ownership is transferred from us to a third party. Stockholders’ Equity Our net equity increased as of December 31, 2013 compared with December 31, 2012. See “Table 27: Comparative Measures—GAAP Change in Stockholders’ Equity and Non-GAAP Change in Fair Value of Net Assets (Net of Tax Effect)” for details of the change in our net equity. SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP INFORMATION—FAIR VALUE BALANCE SHEETSAs part of our disclosure requirements with FHFA, we disclose on a quarterly basis supplemental non-GAAP consolidated fair value balance sheets, which reflect our assets and liabilities at estimated fair value.Table 27 summarizes changes in our stockholders’ equity reported in our GAAP consolidated balance sheets and in the estimated fair value of our net assets in our non-GAAP consolidated fair value balance sheets for the year ended December 31, 2013. The estimated fair value of our net assets is calculated based on the difference between the fair value of our assets and the fair value of our liabilities, adjusted for noncontrolling interests. We use various valuation techniques to estimate fair value, some of which incorporate internal assumptions that are subjective and involve a high degree of management judgment. We describe the specific valuation techniques used to determine fair value and disclose the carrying value and fair value of our financial assets and liabilities in “Note 18, Fair Value.”Table 27: Comparative Measures—GAAP Change in Stockholders’ Equity and Non-GAAP Change in Fair Value of Net Assets (Net of Tax Effect) For Year Ended December 31, 2013 (Dollars in millions)GAAP consolidated balance sheets: Fannie Mae stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2012(1) $7,183 Total comprehensive income 84,801 Senior preferred stock dividends paid (82,452) Other 9 Fannie Mae stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2013(1) $9,541 Non-GAAP consolidated fair value balance sheets: Estimated fair value of net assets as of December 31, 2012 $(66,492) Senior preferred stock dividends paid (82,452) Senior preferred stock dividends payable(2) (7,191) Increase in deferred tax assets, net(3) 47,560 Change in estimated fair value of net assets excluding senior preferred stock dividends paid, senior preferred stock dividends payable and the increase in net deferred tax assets 75,207 Increase in estimated fair value of net assets, net 33,124 Estimated fair value of net assets as of December 31, 2013 $(33,368) __________(1)Our net worth, as defined under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, is equivalent to the “Total equity” amount reported in our consolidated balance sheets, which consists of “Total Fannie Mae stockholders’ equity” and “Noncontrolling interest.”(2)Represents the dividend payment we will pay Treasury in the first quarter of 2014 under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, which, for purposes of our non-GAAP fair value balance sheets, we present as a liability. Under the terms of the senior preferred stock 99purchase agreement, starting January 1, 2013, we are required to pay Treasury each quarter a dividend, when, as and if declared, equal to the excess of our net worth as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter over an applicable capital reserve amount. The capital reserve amount was $3.0 billion for all quarterly dividend periods in 2013, decreased to $2.4 billion for quarterly dividend periods in 2014 and will continue to be reduced by $600 million each year until it reaches zero on January 1, 2018. (3)Represents an increase in the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, net as of December 31, 2013 compared with December 31, 2012, as we released the substantial majority of our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets in the first quarter of 2013.During 2013, the estimated fair value of our net assets, (excluding senior preferred stock dividends paid, senior preferred stock dividends payable, and the increase in net deferred tax assets) increased by approximately $75 billion. This increase was primarily driven by an improvement in credit-related items which related to performing and nonperforming loans. The improvement in credit-related items was primarily due to overall improved housing market and economic conditions, including higher actual and expected home prices experienced during 2013. We estimate that home prices increased by 8.8% in 2013. Changes in single-family home prices, regardless of magnitude, may cause volatility in our fair value measurements due to our $2.9 trillion single-family guaranty book of business.The income from the interest spread between our mortgage assets and associated debt and derivatives as well as the revenue we received from single-family guaranty fees during 2013 contributed to the increase in the estimated fair value of our net assets. In addition, the tightening of option-adjusted spreads during 2013 increased the estimated fair value of our retained mortgage portfolio, resulting in an increase in our net assets.The increase in the estimated fair value of our net assets was partially offset by a decrease in the estimated fair value of our mortgage loans. This reflects the change in the fair value of our loan portfolio that is associated with recent increases in the guaranty fees that we charge in the GSE securitization market. As the guaranty fees we charged in the GSE securitization market increased, the fair value of our mortgage loans decreased because the current market rate of compensation for exposure to credit risk is now higher than the compensation that we are receiving for exposure to credit risk on these mortgage loans. Cautionary Language Relating to Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial MeasuresIn reviewing our non-GAAP consolidated fair value balance sheets, there are a number of important factors and limitations to consider. The estimated fair value of our net assets is calculated as of a particular point in time based on our existing assets and liabilities. It does not incorporate other factors that may have a significant impact on our long-term fair value, including revenues generated from future business activities in which we expect to engage, the value from our foreclosure and loss mitigation efforts or the impact that legislation or potential regulatory actions may have on us. As a result, the estimated fair value of our net assets presented in our non-GAAP consolidated fair value balance sheets does not represent an estimate of our net realizable value, liquidation value or our market value as a whole. Amounts we ultimately realize from the disposition of assets or settlement of liabilities may vary materially from the estimated fair values presented in our non-GAAP consolidated fair value balance sheets.In addition, the fair value of our net assets presented in our fair value balance sheet does not represent an estimate of the value we expect to realize from operating the company, primarily because:•The estimated fair value of our guaranty obligations on mortgage loans significantly exceeds the projected credit losses we would expect to incur, as fair value takes into account certain assumptions about liquidity and required rates of return that a market participant may demand in assuming a credit obligation, and•The fair value of our net assets reflects a point in time estimate of the fair value of our existing assets and liabilities, and does not incorporate the value associated with new business that may be added in the future.The fair value of our net assets is not a measure defined within GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.Supplemental Non-GAAP Consolidated Fair Value Balance SheetsWe display our non-GAAP fair value balance sheets as of the dates indicated in Table 28.100Table 28: Supplemental Non-GAAP Consolidated Fair Value Balance Sheets As of December 31, 2013 As of December 31, 2012 GAAP Carrying Value Fair Value Adjustment(1) Estimated Fair Value GAAP Carrying Value Fair Value Adjustment(1) Estimated Fair Value (Dollars in millions)Assets: Cash and cash equivalents$48,223 $— $48,223 $89,036 $— $89,036 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell or similar arrangements38,975 — 38,975 32,500 — 32,500 Trading securities30,768 — 30,768 40,695 — 40,695 Available-for-sale securities38,171 — 38,171 63,181 — 63,181 Mortgage loans: Mortgage loans held for sale380 — 380 464 11 475 Mortgage loans held for investment, net of allowance for loan losses: Of Fannie Mae259,638 (13,758) 245,880 305,025 (33,837) 271,188 Of consolidated trusts2,766,222 (20,080)(2)(9)2,746,1422,643,917 118,511(2)2,762,428Total mortgage loans3,026,240 (33,838) 2,992,402(3)2,949,406 84,685 3,034,091(3)Advances to lenders3,727 (39) 3,688(4)7,592 (84) 7,508(4)Derivative assets at fair value2,073 — 2,073(4)435 — 435(4)Guaranty assets and buy-ups, net267 439 706(4)327 365 692(4)Total financial assets3,188,444 (33,438) 3,155,006(5)3,183,172 84,966 3,268,138(5)Credit enhancements548 984 1,532(4)488 997 1,485(4)Deferred tax assets, net47,560 — 47,560(6)— — — Other assets33,556 (235) 33,321(4)38,762 (244) 38,518(4)Total assets$3,270,108 $(32,689) $3,237,419 $3,222,422 $85,719 $3,308,141 Liabilities: Short-term debt: Of Fannie Mae$72,295 $9 $72,304 $105,233 $20 $105,253 Of consolidated trusts2,154 — 2,154 3,483 — 3,483 Long-term debt: Of Fannie Mae457,1398,409 465,548 510,63124,941 535,572 Of consolidated trusts2,702,935(5,349)(2)2,697,586 2,570,170131,009(2)2,701,179 Derivative liabilities at fair value1,469 — 1,469(7)705 — 705(7)Guaranty obligations485 1,948 2,433(7)599 2,514 3,113(7)Total financial liabilities3,236,477 5,017 3,241,494(5)3,190,821 158,484 3,349,305(5)Senior preferred stock dividends payable— 7,191 7,191(8)— — — Other liabilities24,040 (1,988) 22,052(7)24,377 910 25,287(7)(9)Total liabilities3,260,517 10,220 3,270,737 3,215,198 159,394 3,374,592 Equity (deficit): Fannie Mae stockholders’ equity (deficit): Senior preferred(10)117,149 — 117,149 117,149 — 117,149 Preferred19,130 (13,004) 6,126 19,130 (17,938) 1,192 Common(126,738) (29,905) (156,643) (129,096) (55,737) (184,833) Total Fannie Mae stockholders’ equity (deficit)/non-GAAP fair value of net assets$9,541 $(42,909) $(33,368) $7,183 $(73,675) $(66,492) Noncontrolling interest50 — 50 41 — 41 Total equity (deficit)9,591 (42,909) (33,318) 7,224 (73,675) (66,451) Total liabilities and equity (deficit)$3,270,108 $(32,689) $3,237,419 $3,222,422 $85,719 $3,308,141 101__________Explanation and Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures to GAAP Measures(1) Each of the amounts listed as a “fair value adjustment” represents the difference between the carrying value included in our GAAP consolidated balance sheets and our best judgment of the estimated fair value of the listed item.(2) Fair value of consolidated loans is impacted by credit risk, which has no corresponding impact on the consolidated debt.(3) Performing loans had a fair value and an unpaid principal balance of $2.9 trillion as of December 31, 2013 compared with a fair value of $2.9 trillion and an unpaid principal balance of $2.8 trillion as of December 31, 2012. Nonperforming loans, which for the purposes of our non-GAAP fair value balance sheets consists of loans that are delinquent by one or more payments, had a fair value of $103.8 billion and an unpaid principal balance of $149.3 billion as of December 31, 2013 compared with a fair value of $112.3 billion and an unpaid principal balance of $189.9 billion as of December 31, 2012. See “Note 18, Fair Value” for additional information on valuation techniques for performing and nonperforming loans.(4) “Other assets” include (a) Accrued interest receivable, net and (b) Acquired property, net as reported in our GAAP consolidated balance sheets. “Other assets” in our GAAP consolidated balance sheets include the following: (a) Advances to lenders; (b) Derivative assets at fair value; (c) Guaranty assets and buy-ups, net; and (d) Credit enhancements. The carrying value of these items totaled $6.6 billion and $8.8 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.(5) We estimated the fair value of these financial instruments in accordance with the fair value accounting guidance as described in “Note 18, Fair Value.”(6) The amount included in “estimated fair value” of deferred tax assets, net represents the GAAP carrying value and does not reflect fair value.(7) “Other liabilities” include Accrued interest payable as reported in our GAAP consolidated balance sheets. “Other liabilities” in our GAAP consolidated balance sheets include the following: (a) Derivative liabilities at fair value and (b) Guaranty obligations. The carrying value of these items totaled $2.0 billion and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. (8) Represents the dividend payment we will pay to Treasury in the first quarter of 2014 under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, which, for purposes of our non-GAAP fair balance sheets, we present as a liability.(9) Includes the estimated fair value of our liability to Treasury for TCCA-related guaranty fee payments over the expected life of the loans. As of December 31, 2013, the estimated fair value of TCCA-related guaranty fee payments is included in the line item “Mortgage loans held for investment—Of consolidated trusts.”(10) The amount included in “estimated fair value” of the senior preferred stock is the liquidation preference, which is the same as the GAAP carrying value, and does not reflect fair value.LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENTLiquidity ManagementOur business activities require that we maintain adequate liquidity to fund our operations. Our liquidity risk management policy is designed to address our liquidity risk. Liquidity risk is the risk that we will not be able to meet our funding obligations in a timely manner. Liquidity risk management involves forecasting funding requirements, maintaining sufficient capacity to meet our needs based on our ongoing assessment of financial market liquidity and adhering to our regulatory requirements. Our treasury function is responsible for implementing our liquidity and contingency planning strategies. See “Liquidity Risk Management Practices and Contingency Planning” for a discussion of our liquidity contingency plans. Also see “Risk Factors” for a description of the risks associated with our liquidity risk and liquidity contingency planning. Primary Sources and Uses of Funds Our primary source of funds is proceeds from the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. Accordingly, our liquidity depends largely on our ability to issue unsecured debt in the capital markets. Our status as a GSE and federal government support of our business continue to be essential to maintaining our access to the unsecured debt markets. In addition to funding we obtain from the issuance of debt securities, our other sources of cash include: •principal and interest payments received on mortgage loans, mortgage-related securities and non-mortgage investments we own; •proceeds from the sale of mortgage-related securities, mortgage loans and non-mortgage assets, including proceeds from the sales of foreclosed real estate assets; •guaranty fees received on Fannie Mae MBS; •payments received from mortgage insurance counterparties; •net receipts on derivative instruments; •borrowings under secured intraday funding lines of credit we have established with large financial institutions; and•borrowings against mortgage-related securities and other investment securities we hold pursuant to repurchase agreements and loan agreements.Our primary funding needs include: •the repayment of matured, redeemed and repurchased debt; •the purchase of mortgage loans (including delinquent loans from MBS trusts), mortgage-related securities and other investments; •interest payments on outstanding debt; •dividend payments made to Treasury pursuant to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement; •net payments on derivative instruments; •the pledging of collateral under derivative instruments; •administrative expenses; and •losses incurred in connection with our Fannie Mae MBS guaranty obligations. Liquidity Risk Management Practices and Contingency Planning Our liquidity position could be adversely affected by many factors, both internal and external to our business, including: actions taken by our conservator, the Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury or other government agencies; legislation relating to us or our business; a U.S. government payment default on its debt obligations; a downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt or the U.S. government’s debt from the major ratings organizations; a systemic event leading to the withdrawal of liquidity from the market; an extreme market-wide widening of credit spreads; public statements by key policy makers; a significant decline in our net worth; potential investor concerns about the adequacy of funding available to us under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement; loss of demand for our debt, or certain types of our debt, from a major group of investors; a significant credit event involving one of our major institutional counterparties; a sudden catastrophic operational failure in the financial sector; or elimination of our GSE status. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of factors that could adversely affect our liquidity. We conduct liquidity contingency planning to prepare for an event in which our access to the unsecured debt markets becomes limited. We plan for alternative sources of liquidity that are designed to allow us to meet our cash obligations without relying upon the issuance of unsecured debt. As directed by FHFA, our liquidity management policies and practices require that we: •maintain a portfolio of highly liquid securities to cover a minimum of 30 calendar days of net cash needs, assuming no access to the short- and long-term unsecured debt markets and other assumptions required by FHFA; •maintain within our cash and other investment portfolio a daily balance of U.S. Treasury securities and/or cash with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that has a redemption amount of at least 50% of the average projected 30-day cash needs over the previous three months (as adjusted in agreement with FHFA); and •maintain a liquidity profile that meets or exceeds our projected 365-day net cash needs by supplementing liquidity holdings with unencumbered agency mortgage securities. As of December 31, 2013, we were in compliance with each of the liquidity risk management policies and practices set forth above. In addition to these FHFA requirements, we run routine operational testing of our ability to rely upon mortgage collateral to obtain financing. We enter into relatively small repurchase agreements in order to confirm that we have the operational and systems capability to do so. In addition, we have provided collateral in advance to a number of clearing banks in the event we seek to enter into repurchase agreements in the future. We do not, however, have committed repurchase agreements with specific counterparties, as historically we have not relied on this form of funding. As a result, our use of such facilities and our ability to enter into them in significant dollar amounts may be challenging in a stressed market environment. See “Risk Factors” for the risks associated with our ability to fund operations. See “Cash and Other Investments Portfolio” and “Unencumbered Mortgage Portfolio” for further discussions of our alternative sources of liquidity if our access to the debt markets were to become limited.102While our liquidity contingency planning attempts to address stressed market conditions and our status under conservatorship and Treasury arrangements, we believe that our liquidity contingency plans may be difficult or impossible to execute for a company of our size in our circumstances. See “Risk Factors” for a description of the risks associated with our liquidity contingency planning.Debt FundingWe separately present the debt from consolidations (“debt of consolidated trusts”) and the debt issued by us (“debt of Fannie Mae”) in our consolidated balance sheets and in the debt tables below. Our discussion regarding debt funding in this section focuses on the debt of Fannie Mae. We fund our business primarily through the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities in the domestic and international capital markets. Because debt issuance is our primary funding source, we are subject to “roll-over,” or refinancing, risk on our outstanding debt. We have a diversified funding base of domestic and international investors. Purchasers of our debt securities are geographically diversified and include fund managers, commercial banks, pension funds, insurance companies, foreign central banks, corporations, state and local governments, and other municipal authorities. Our debt funding needs may vary from quarter to quarter depending on market conditions and are influenced by anticipated liquidity needs, the size of our retained mortgage portfolio and our dividend payment obligations to Treasury. Under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, we were required to reduce our retained mortgage portfolio to $552.5 billion by December 31, 2013 and, by December 31 of each year thereafter, to 85% of the maximum allowable amount that we were permitted to own as of December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year, until the amount of our mortgage assets reaches $250 billion.Fannie Mae Debt Funding ActivityTable 29 displays the activity in debt of Fannie Mae for the periods indicated. This activity excludes the debt of consolidated trusts and intraday loans. The reported amounts of debt issued and paid off during the period represent the face amount of the debt at issuance and redemption, respectively. Activity for short-term debt of Fannie Mae relates to borrowings with an original contractual maturity of one year or less while activity for long-term debt of Fannie Mae relates to borrowings with an original contractual maturity of greater than one year.103Table 29: Activity in Debt of Fannie Mae For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions)Issued during the period: Short-term: Amount $216,475 $246,092 $424,503 Weighted-average interest rate 0.11% 0.12% 0.12% Long-term: Amount $138,404 $255,902 $256,670 Weighted-average interest rate 1.07% 1.26% 1.72% Total issued: Amount $354,879 $501,994 $681,173 Weighted-average interest rate 0.49% 0.70% 0.72% Paid off during the period: (1) Short-term: Amount $249,357 $287,624 $429,711 Weighted-average interest rate 0.12% 0.12% 0.19% Long-term: Amount $192,861 $334,564 $302,473 Weighted-average interest rate 1.72% 1.88% 2.52% Total paid off: Amount $442,218 $622,188 $732,184 Weighted-average interest rate 0.82% 1.06% 1.15% __________(1) Consists of all payments on debt, including regularly scheduled principal payments, payments at maturity, payments resulting from calls and payments for any other repurchases. Repurchases of debt and early retirements of zero-coupon debt are reported at original face value, which does not equal the amount of actual cash payment.Debt issuances decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to lower funding needs as our retained mortgage portfolio decreased. Redemptions of callable debt decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 due to increased interest rates. Our debt funding activity is influenced by the size of our retained mortgage portfolio, anticipated liquidity needs and our dividend payment obligations to Treasury.We believe that continued federal government support of our business and the financial markets, as well as our status as a GSE, are essential to maintaining our access to debt funding. Changes or perceived changes in federal government support of our business and the financial markets or our status as a GSE could materially and adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. For more information on GSE reform, see “Business—Housing Finance Reform” and “Risk Factors.”In addition, due to our reliance on the U.S. government’s support, our access to debt funding or the cost of our debt funding could be materially adversely affected by a change or perceived change in the creditworthiness of the U.S. government. A downgrade in our credit ratings could reduce demand for our debt securities and increase our borrowing costs. See “Risk Factors” and “Credit Ratings” for further discussion of the importance of our credit ratings.Future changes or disruptions in the financial markets could significantly change the amount, mix and cost of funds we obtain, which also could increase our liquidity and roll-over risk and have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks we face relating to (1) the uncertain future of our company; (2) our reliance on the issuance of debt securities to obtain funds for our operations and the relative cost to obtain these funds; and (3) our liquidity contingency plans.Outstanding DebtTotal outstanding debt of Fannie Mae includes short-term and long-term debt, excluding debt of consolidated trusts. 104Our outstanding short-term debt, based on its original contractual maturity, as a percentage of our total outstanding debt was 14% as of December 31, 2013 and 17% as of December 31, 2012. For information on our outstanding debt maturing within one year, including the current portion of our long-term debt, as a percentage of our total debt, see “Maturity Profile of Outstanding Debt of Fannie Mae.” In addition, the weighted-average interest rate on our long-term debt, based on its original contractual maturity, decreased to 2.14% as of December 31, 2013 from 2.25% as of December 31, 2012.Pursuant to the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, we are prohibited from issuing debt without the prior consent of Treasury if it would result in our aggregate indebtedness exceeding our outstanding debt limit, which is 120% of the amount of mortgage assets we were allowed to own on December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year. Our debt limit under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement was reduced to $780.0 billion in 2013. As of December 31, 2013, our aggregate indebtedness totaled $534.2 billion, which was $245.8 billion below our debt limit. The calculation of our indebtedness for purposes of complying with our debt limit reflects the unpaid principal balance and excludes debt basis adjustments and debt of consolidated trusts. Because of our debt limit, we may be restricted in the amount of debt we issue to fund our operations.Table 30 displays information as of the dates indicated on our outstanding short-term and long-term debt based on its original contractual terms.Table 30: Outstanding Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt(1) As of December 31, 2013 2012 Maturities Outstanding Weighted-AverageInterestRate Maturities Outstanding Weighted-AverageInterestRate (Dollars in millions)Short-term debt: Fixed-rate: Discount notes— $71,933 0.12% — $104,730 0.15%Foreign exchange discount notes— 362 1.07 — 503 1.61Total short-term debt of Fannie Mae (2) 72,295 0.13 105,233 0.16Debt of consolidated trusts— 2,154 0.09 — 3,483 0.15Total short-term debt $74,449 0.13% $108,716 0.16%Long-term debt: Senior fixed: Benchmark notes and bonds2014 - 2030 $212,234 2.45% 2013 - 2030 $251,768 2.59%Medium-term notes(3)2014 - 2023 161,445 1.28 2013 - 2022 172,288 1.35Foreign exchange notes and bonds2021 - 2028 682 5.41 2021 - 2028 694 5.44Other(4)(5)2014 - 2038 38,444 4.99 2013 - 2038 40,819 4.99Total senior fixed 412,805 2.24 465,569 2.35Senior floating: Medium-term notes(3)2014 - 2019 38,441 0.20 2013 - 2019 38,633 0.27Other(4)(5)2020 - 2037 955 5.18 2020 - 2037 365 8.22Total senior floating 39,396 0.32 38,998 0.33Subordinated fixed: Qualifying subordinated2014 1,169 5.27 2013 - 2014 2,522 5.00Subordinated debentures(6)2019 3,507 9.92 2019 3,197 9.92Total subordinated fixed 4,676 8.76 5,719 7.75Secured borrowings(7)2021 - 2022 262 1.86 2021 - 2022 345 1.87Total long-term debt of Fannie Mae(8) 457,139 2.14 510,631 2.25Debt of consolidated trusts(5)2014 - 2053 2,702,935 3.26 2013 - 2052 2,570,170 3.36Total long-term debt $3,160,074 3.10% $3,080,801 3.18%Outstanding callable debt of Fannie Mae(9) $168,397 1.59% $177,784 1.64%105__________(1) Outstanding debt amounts and weighted-average interest rates reported in this table include the effects of discounts, premiums and other cost basis adjustments. Reported amounts include fair value gains and losses associated with debt that we elected to carry at fair value. The unpaid principal balance of outstanding debt of Fannie Mae, which excludes unamortized discounts, premiums and other cost basis adjustments, and debt of consolidated trusts, totaled $534.3 billion and $621.8 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.(2) Short-term debt of Fannie Mae consists of borrowings with an original contractual maturity of one year or less and, therefore, does not include the current portion of long-term debt. Reported amounts include a net unamortized discount, fair value adjustments and other cost basis adjustments of $30 million and $33 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.(3) Includes long-term debt with an original contractual maturity of greater than 1 year and up to 10 years, excluding zero-coupon debt.(4) Includes long-term debt that is not included in other debt categories.(5) Includes a portion of structured debt instruments that is reported at fair value.(6) Consists of subordinated debt with an interest deferral feature. (7) Represents remaining liability for transfer of financial assets from our consolidated balance sheets that did not qualify as a sale.(8) Long-term debt of Fannie Mae consists of borrowings with an original contractual maturity of greater than one year. Reported amounts include the current portion of long-term debt that is due within one year, which totaled $89.8 billion and $103.2 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Reported amounts also include a net unamortized discount, fair value adjustments and other cost basis adjustments of $4.8 billion and $6.0 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The unpaid principal balance of long-term debt of Fannie Mae, which excludes unamortized discounts, premiums, fair value adjustments and other cost basis adjustments and amounts related to debt of consolidated trusts, totaled $462.0 billion and $516.5 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. (9) Consists of the unpaid principal balance of long-term callable debt of Fannie Mae that can be paid off in whole or in part at our option or the option of the investor at any time on or after a specified date.Table 31 below displays additional information for each category of our short-term borrowings.Table 31: Outstanding Short-Term Borrowings(1) 2013 As of December 31 Average During the Year Outstanding Weighted-AverageInterestRate Outstanding(2) Weighted-AverageInterestRate Maximum Outstanding(3) (Dollars in millions)Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase $— —% $15 —% $218 Fixed-rate short-term debt: Discount notes $71,933 0.12% $94,697 0.13% $127,916Foreign exchange discount notes 362 1.07 385 1.43 503Total short-term debt $72,295 0.13% 106 2012 As of December 31 Average During the Year Outstanding Weighted-AverageInterestRate Outstanding(2) Weighted-AverageInterestRate Maximum Outstanding(3) (Dollars in millions)Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase $— —% $18 —% $490 Fixed-rate short-term debt: Discount notes $104,730 0.15% $102,414 0.14% $151,906Foreign exchange discount notes 503 1.61 412 1.82 516Other(4) — — 33 0.04 80Total short-term debt $105,233 0.16% 2011 As of December 31 Average During the Year Outstanding Weighted-AverageInterestRate Outstanding(2) Weighted-AverageInterestRate Maximum Outstanding(3) (Dollars in millions)Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase $— —% $10 0.11% $829 Fixed-rate short-term debt: Discount notes $146,301 0.13% $160,358 0.18% $198,382Foreign exchange discount notes 371 1.88 327 2.25 401Other(4) 80 0.04 9 0.06 80Total short-term debt $146,752 0.13% __________(1) Includes the effects of discounts, premiums and other cost basis adjustments.(2) Average amount outstanding has been calculated using daily balances.(3) Maximum outstanding represents the highest daily outstanding balance during the year. (4) Consists of foreign exchange discount notes denominated in U.S. dollars.Qualifying Subordinated DebtWe had $1.2 billion in outstanding qualifying subordinated debt as of December 31, 2013, all of which matured in January 2014. The terms of these securities state that, if our core capital is below 125% of our critical capital requirement (which it was as of December 31, 2013), we will defer interest payments on these securities. FHFA has directed us, however, to continue paying principal and interest on our outstanding qualifying subordinated debt during the conservatorship and thereafter until directed otherwise, regardless of our existing capital levels.Under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, we are prohibited from issuing additional subordinated debt without the written consent of Treasury. We did not issue any subordinated debt in 2013.Maturity Profile of Outstanding Debt of Fannie MaeTable 32 displays the maturity profile, as of December 31, 2013, of our outstanding debt maturing within one year, including the current portion of our long-term debt and amounts we have announced for early redemption. Our outstanding debt maturing within one year, as a percentage of our total outstanding debt, excluding debt of consolidated trusts, was 31% as of December 31, 2013 and 34% as of December 31, 2012. The weighted-average maturity of our outstanding debt that is maturing within one year was 151 days as of December 31, 2013, compared with 130 days as of December 31, 2012. 107Table 32: Maturity Profile of Outstanding Debt of Fannie Mae Maturing Within One Year(1) ________(1) Includes unamortized discounts, premiums and other cost basis adjustments of $195 million as of December 31, 2013. Excludes debt of consolidated trusts maturing within one year of $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2013.Table 33 displays the maturity profile, as of December 31, 2013, of the portion of our long-term debt that matures in more than one year, on a quarterly basis for one year and on an annual basis thereafter, excluding amounts we have announced for early redemption within one year. The weighted-average maturity of our outstanding debt maturing in more than one year was approximately 59 months as of December 31, 2013 and approximately 61 months as of December 31, 2012. Table 33: Maturity Profile of Outstanding Debt of Fannie Mae Maturing in More Than One Year(1) __________(1) Includes unamortized discounts, premiums and other cost basis adjustments of $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2013. Excludes debt of consolidated trusts of $2.7 trillion as of December 31, 2013.108We intend to repay our short-term and long-term debt obligations as they become due primarily through proceeds from the issuance of additional debt securities. We also may use proceeds from our mortgage assets to pay our debt obligations.Contractual ObligationsTable 34 displays, by remaining maturity, our future cash obligations related to our long term debt, announced calls, operating leases, purchase obligations and other material noncancelable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013.Table 34: Contractual Obligations Payment Due by Period as of December 31, 2013 Total Less than 1 Year 1 to <3 Years 3 to 5 Years More than 5 Years (Dollars in millions)Long-term debt obligations(1) $457,139 $89,844 $150,911 $133,994 $82,390Contractual interest on long-term obligations(2) 54,239 7,896 12,499 7,745 26,099Operating lease obligations(3) 138 41 66 28 3Purchase obligations: Mortgage commitments(4) 29,753 29,753 — — —Other purchase obligations(5) 118 63 53 2 —Other liabilities reflected in the consolidated balance sheet(6) 2,062 1,947 47 53 15Total contractual obligations $543,449 $129,544 $163,576 $141,822 $108,507__________(1) Represents the carrying amount of our long-term debt assuming payments are made in full at maturity. Amounts exclude $2.7 trillion in long-term debt from consolidations. Amounts include a net unamortized discount, fair value adjustments and other cost basis adjustments of $4.8 billion.(2) Excludes contractual interest on long-term debt from consolidations. (3) Includes certain premises and equipment leases.(4) Includes on- and off-balance sheet commitments to purchase mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities.(5) Includes only unconditional purchase obligations that are subject to a cancellation penalty for certain telecom services, software and computer services, and other agreements. Excludes arrangements that may be canceled without penalty. Amounts also include off-balance sheet commitments for the unutilized portion of lending agreements entered into with multifamily borrowers.(6) Excludes risk management derivative transactions that may require cash settlement in future periods and our obligations to stand ready to perform under our guarantees relating to Fannie Mae MBS and other financial guarantees, because the amount and timing of payments under these arrangements are generally contingent upon the occurrence of future events. For a description of the amount of our on- and off-balance sheet Fannie Mae MBS and other financial guarantees as of December 31, 2013, see “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements.” Includes cash received as collateral, unrecognized tax benefits and future cash payments due under our contractual obligations to fund LIHTC and other partnerships that are unconditional and legally binding, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets under “Other liabilities.”Equity FundingAs a result of the covenants under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, Treasury’s ownership of the warrant to purchase up to 79.9% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding and the uncertainty regarding our future, we effectively no longer have access to equity funding except through draws under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement. For a description of the funding available and the covenants under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, see “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements—Treasury Agreements.”Cash and Other Investments PortfolioOur cash and other investments portfolio increased in 2013 compared with 2012. The balance of our cash and other investments portfolio fluctuates based on changes in our cash flows, overall liquidity in the fixed income markets and our liquidity risk management policies and practices. See “Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk Management—Issuers of Investments Held in our Cash and Other Investments Portfolio” for additional information on the risks associated with the assets in our cash and other investments portfolio.109Table 35 displays information on the composition of our cash and other investments portfolio as of the dates indicated. Table 35: Cash and Other Investments Portfolio As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions) Cash and cash equivalents $19,228 $21,117 $17,539 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell or similar arrangements 38,975 32,500 46,000 Non-mortgage-related securities: U.S. Treasury securities (1) 16,306 17,950 47,737 Asset-backed securities — — 2,111 Total non-mortgage-related securities 16,306 17,950 49,848 Total cash and other investments $74,509 $71,567 $113,387 __________(1) Excludes U.S. Treasury securities that had a maturity at the date of acquisition of three months or less and would therefore be included in cash and cash equivalents. Unencumbered Mortgage PortfolioAnother potential source of liquidity in the event our access to the unsecured debt market becomes impaired is the unencumbered mortgage assets in our retained mortgage portfolio, which could be sold or used as collateral for secured borrowing. We believe that the amount of mortgage-related assets that we could successfully sell or borrow against in the event of a liquidity crisis or significant market disruption is substantially lower than the amount of mortgage-related assets we hold. Our ability to sell whole loans from our retained mortgage portfolio is limited due to the credit-related issues of these loans, as well as operational constraints.Credit RatingsOur credit ratings from the major credit ratings organizations, as well as the credit ratings of the U.S. government, are primary factors that could affect our ability to access the capital markets and our cost of funds. In addition, our credit ratings are important when we seek to engage in certain long-term transactions, such as derivative transactions. S&P, Moody’s and Fitch have all indicated that, if they were to lower the sovereign credit ratings on the U.S., they would likely lower their ratings on the debt of Fannie Mae and certain other government-related entities. We cannot predict whether one or more of these ratings agencies will lower our debt ratings in the future. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks to our business relating to a decrease in our credit ratings, which could include an increase in our borrowing costs, limits on our ability to issue debt, and additional collateral requirements under our derivatives contracts.Table 36 displays the credit ratings issued by the three major credit rating agencies as of February 13, 2014.Table 36: Fannie Mae Credit Ratings As of February 13, 2014 S&P Moody’s FitchLong-term senior debtAA+ Aaa AAAShort-term senior debtA-1+ P-1 F1+Qualifying subordinated debtAA- Aa2 AA-Preferred stockD Ca C/RR6OutlookStable Stable Rating Watch Negative (for Long Term Senior Debt and Qualifying Subordinated Debt) (for Long Term Senior Debt and Preferred Stock) (for Long Term Senior Debt, Short Term Senior Debt and Qualifying Subordinated Debt)110In June 2013, S&P revised its outlook on the long-term rating on the U.S. from negative to stable. As a result, S&P also revised its outlook on our issue-level rating from negative to stable. In July 2013, Moody’s moved the outlook for both the U.S. government’s rating and our long-term senior debt rating back to stable, replacing the negative outlook that had been in place since August 2011. Moody’s also affirmed the “Aaa” rating of both the U.S. government and our long-term senior debt.In October 2013, Fitch placed our long-term senior debt, short-term senior debt and qualifying subordinated debt ratings on “Rating Watch Negative,” following a similar action on the debt ratings of the U.S. government. A rating being placed on Rating Watch is typically event-driven and indicates there is a heightened probability of a rating change. Fitch noted that it placed our long-term debt, short-term debt and qualifying subordinated debt on “Rating Watch Negative” due to our direct financial support from the U.S. government.In November 2013, S&P revised the preferred stock rating to “D” from “C” citing their expectation that Fannie Mae will not resume dividend payments to common and preferred stockholders in the near term. In December 2013, S&P raised the qualifying subordinated debt rating to “AA-” from “A” citing, among other factors, the U.S. government’s continued support for Fannie Mae debt instruments. S&P affirmed the long-term senior debt rating of “AA+” and short-term senior debt rating of “A-1+” due to the stable outlook on the U.S. sovereign rating.We have no covenants in our existing debt agreements that would be violated by a downgrade in our credit ratings. However, in connection with certain derivatives counterparties, we could be required to provide additional collateral to or terminate transactions with certain counterparties in the event that our senior unsecured debt ratings are downgraded. The amount of additional collateral required depends on the contract and is usually a fixed incremental amount, the market value of the exposure, or both. See “Note 9, Derivative Instruments” and “Risk Factors” for additional information on collateral we would be required to provide to our derivatives counterparties in the event of downgrades in our credit ratings. Cash FlowsYear ended December 31, 2013. Cash and cash equivalents decreased by $1.9 billion from $21.1 billion as of December 31, 2012 to $19.2 billion as of December 31, 2013. This decrease in the balance was primarily driven by cash used to (1) acquire mortgage loans and provide advances to lenders; (2) acquire delinquent loans out of MBS trusts; and (3) pay dividends to Treasury. In addition, as we continue to reduce our retained mortgage portfolio, we have lower funding needs which caused funding debt redemptions to outpace funding debt issuances.Partially offsetting these cash outflows were cash inflows from: (1) issuances of long-term debt of consolidated trusts from selling Fannie Mae MBS securities to third parties; (2) proceeds from the sale and liquidation of mortgage-related securities as we reduce our retained mortgage portfolio, including the sale of non-agency mortgage-related assets per FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard objective; and (3) the sale of our REO inventory. In addition, we received proceeds from resolution and settlement agreements in 2013 related to representation and warranty and PLS matters. Year Ended December 31, 2012. Cash and cash equivalents increased by $3.6 billion from $17.5 billion as of December 31, 2011 to $21.1 billion as of December 31, 2012. This increase in the balance was primarily driven by cash provided by (1) issuances of long-term debt of consolidated trusts, from selling Fannie Mae MBS securities to third parties; (2) proceeds from the sale and liquidation of mortgage-related and non-mortgage securities, as we reduced our retained mortgage portfolio and had lower liquidity needs; (3) the sale of our REO inventory and (4) proceeds from the maturities of trading securities. Partially offsetting these cash inflows were cash outflows from: (1) the acquisition of mortgage loans and advances to lenders, (2) funding debt redemptions outpacing debt issuances, due to lower funding needs, and (3) the acquisition of delinquent loans out of MBS trusts. Capital ManagementRegulatory CapitalFHFA has announced that during the conservatorship, our existing statutory and FHFA-directed regulatory capital requirements will not be binding and FHFA will not issue quarterly capital classifications. We submit capital reports to FHFA during the conservatorship and FHFA monitors our capital levels. We report our minimum capital requirement, core capital and GAAP net worth in our periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K, and FHFA also reports them on its website. FHFA is not reporting our critical, risk-based capital or subordinated debt levels during the conservatorship. For information on our minimum capital requirements see “Note 15, Regulatory Capital Requirements.”111Dodd-Frank Act—FHFA Rule Regarding Stress TestingSee “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—The Dodd-Frank Act—Stress Testing” for a description of FHFA’s final rule implementing the Dodd-Frank Act’s stress test requirements for Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks.Capital ActivityWe are effectively unable to raise equity capital from private sources at this time and, therefore, are reliant on the funding available under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement to address any net worth deficit.Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement As a result of the covenants under the stock purchase agreement, Treasury’s ownership of the warrant to purchase up to 79.9% of the total shares of our common stock outstanding and the significant uncertainty regarding our future, we effectively no longer have access to equity funding except through draws under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement.Under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, Treasury made a commitment to provide funding, under certain conditions, to eliminate deficiencies in our net worth. We have received a total of $116.1 billion from Treasury pursuant to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement as of December 31, 2013. The aggregate liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock, including the initial aggregate liquidation preference of $1.0 billion, remains at $117.1 billion. While we had a positive net worth as of December 31, 2013 and have not received funds from Treasury under the agreement since the first quarter of 2012, we would be required to obtain additional funding from Treasury pursuant to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement if we have a net worth deficit in future periods. As of the date of this filing, the amount of remaining available funding under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement is $117.6 billion. For additional information, see “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements—Treasury Agreements—Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement and Related Issuance of Senior Preferred Stock and Common Stock Warrant—Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement.” We are not permitted to redeem the senior preferred stock prior to the termination of Treasury’s funding commitment under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement. Moreover, we are not permitted to pay down the liquidation preference of the outstanding shares of senior preferred stock except in limited circumstances. The limited circumstances under which Treasury’s funding commitment will terminate and under which we can pay down the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock are described in “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements—Treasury Agreements.” DividendsOur fourth quarter 2013 dividend of $8.6 billion was declared by FHFA and subsequently paid by us on December 31, 2013, bringing our senior preferred stock dividends paid in 2013 to $82.5 billion. For each dividend period from January 1, 2013 through and including December 31, 2017, when, as and if declared, the dividend amount will be the amount, if any, by which our net worth as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter exceeds an applicable capital reserve amount. The capital reserve amount was $3.0 billion for dividend periods in 2013, decreased to $2.4 billion for dividend periods in 2014 and will continue to be reduced by $600 million each year until it reaches zero on January 1, 2018. For each dividend period beginning in 2018, the dividend amount will be the entire amount of our net worth, if any, as of the end of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter. Based on the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, we expect to pay Treasury a dividend for the first quarter of 2014 of $7.2 billion by March 31, 2014.See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks relating to our dividend obligations to Treasury on the senior preferred stock. See “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements—Treasury Agreements” for more information on the terms of the senior preferred stock and our senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury.OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTSWe enter into certain business arrangements to facilitate our statutory purpose of providing liquidity to the secondary mortgage market and to reduce our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Some of these arrangements are not recorded in our consolidated balance sheets or may be recorded in amounts different from the full contract or notional amount of the transaction, depending on the nature or structure of, and accounting required to be applied to, the arrangement. These arrangements are commonly referred to as “off-balance sheet arrangements” and expose us to potential losses in excess of the amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheets.112Our off-balance sheet arrangements result primarily from the following:•our guaranty of mortgage loan securitization and resecuritization transactions over which we do not have control;•other guaranty transactions;•liquidity support transactions; and•partnership interests.Our maximum potential exposure to credit losses relating to our outstanding and unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS and other financial guarantees is primarily represented by the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage loans underlying outstanding and unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS and other financial guarantees of $44.3 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $53.1 billion as of December 31, 2012.For more information on the mortgage loans underlying both our on- and off-balance sheet Fannie Mae MBS, as well as whole mortgage loans that we own, see “Risk Management—Credit Risk Management.”Partnership Investment Interests For partnership investments where we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary, we have consolidated these investments and recorded all of the partnership assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Our partnership investments primarily consist of investments in affordable rental and for-sale housing partnerships. The carrying value of our partnership investments, including those we have consolidated, totaled $809 million as of December 31, 2013, compared with $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2012.LIHTC Partnership Interests In most instances, we are not the primary beneficiary of our LIHTC partnership investments, and therefore our consolidated balance sheets reflect only our investment in the LIHTC partnership, rather than the full amount of the LIHTC partnership’s assets and liabilities. FHFA informed us that, after consultation with Treasury, generally we are not authorized to sell or transfer our LIHTC partnership interests. Some exceptions to this rule exist in very limited circumstances and, in most cases, only with FHFA consent. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we reduced the carrying value of our LIHTC partnership investments to zero, as we no longer had both the intent and ability to sell or otherwise transfer our LIHTC investments for value. However, we still have an obligation to fund our LIHTC partnership investments and have recorded such obligation as a liability in our financial statements. We did not make any LIHTC investments in 2013, other than pursuant to existing prior commitments.Treasury Housing Finance Agency InitiativeDuring the fourth quarter of 2009, we entered into a memorandum of understanding with Treasury, FHFA and Freddie Mac pursuant to which we agreed to provide assistance to state and local housing finance agencies (“HFAs”) through two primary programs, which together comprise what we refer to as the HFA initiative.In November 2011, we entered into an Omnibus Consent to HFA Initiative Program Modifications with Treasury, Freddie Mac and FHFA pursuant to which the parties agreed to specified modifications to the HFA initiative programs, including a three-year extension of the expiration date for the temporary credit and liquidity facilities (“TCLFs”) from December 2012 to December 2015. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Transactions with Related Persons—Transactions with Treasury—Treasury Housing Finance Agency Initiative” for a discussion of the HFA initiative.Pursuant to the TCLF program that we describe in “Related Parties” in “Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” Treasury has purchased participation interests in TCLFs provided by us and Freddie Mac to the HFAs. These facilities create a credit and liquidity backstop for the HFAs. Our outstanding commitments under the TCLF program totaled $821 million as of December 31, 2013 and $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2012.Multifamily Bond Credit Enhancement Liquidity CommitmentsOur total outstanding liquidity commitments to advance funds for securities backed by multifamily housing revenue bonds totaled $13.0 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $15.3 billion as of December 31, 2012. These commitments require us to advance funds to third parties that enable them to repurchase tendered bonds or securities that are unable to be remarketed. We hold cash and cash equivalents in our cash and other investments portfolio in excess of these commitments to advance funds.113RISK MANAGEMENTOur business activities expose us to the following three major categories of financial risk: credit risk, market risk (including interest rate and liquidity risk) and operational risk. We seek to actively monitor and manage these risks by using an established risk management framework. Our risk management framework is intended to provide the basis for the principles that govern our risk management activities. •Credit Risk. Credit risk is the potential for financial loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or institutional counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations, resulting in a potential loss of earnings or cash flows. In regards to financial securities or instruments, credit risk is the risk of not receiving principal, interest or any other financial obligation on a timely basis, for any reason. Credit risk exists primarily in our mortgage credit book of business and derivatives portfolio. •Market Risk. Market risk is the exposure generated by adverse changes in the value of financial instruments caused by a change in market prices or interest rates. Two significant market risks we face and actively manage are interest rate risk and liquidity risk. Interest rate risk is the risk of changes in our long-term earnings or in the value of our assets due to fluctuations in interest rates. Liquidity risk is our potential inability to meet our funding obligations in a timely manner. •Operational Risk. Operational risk is the loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events. In addition to our exposure to credit, market and operational risks, there is significant uncertainty regarding the future of our company, including how long we will continue to be in existence, which we discuss in more detail in “Business—Housing Finance Reform” and in “Risk Factors.” This uncertainty, along with limitations on our employee compensation arising from our conservatorship, could affect our ability to retain and hire qualified employees. We are also subject to a number of other risks that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, earnings and cash flow, including human capital, legal, regulatory and compliance, reputational, strategic and execution risks. These risks may arise due to a failure to comply with laws, regulations or ethical standards and codes of conduct applicable to our business activities and functions. These risks are typically brought to the attention of our Management Committee, our Board of Directors or one or more of the Board’s committees and, in some cases, FHFA for discussion. Another risk that can impact our financial condition, earnings and cash flow is model risk, which is defined as the potential for model errors to adversely affect the company. This occurs because of our use of modeled estimations of future economic environments, borrower behavior or valuation methodologies. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks associated with our reliance on models. Our risk management framework and governance structure are intended to provide comprehensive controls and ongoing management of the major risks inherent in our business activities. Our ability to identify, assess, mitigate and control, and report and monitor risk is crucial to our safety and soundness. •Risk Identification. Risk identification is the process of finding, recognizing and describing risk. The identification of risk facilitates effective risk management by achieving awareness of the sources, impact and magnitude of risk. •Risk Assessment. We assess risk using a variety of methodologies, such as calculation of potential losses from loans and stress tests relating to interest rate sensitivity. When we assess risk, we look at metrics such as frequency, severity, concentration, correlation, volatility and loss. Information obtained from these assessments is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that our risk assumptions are reasonable and reflect our current positions. •Risk Mitigation & Control. We proactively develop appropriate mitigation strategies to prevent excessive risk exposure, address risks that exceed established tolerances and address risks that create unanticipated business impact. Mitigation strategies and controls can be in the form of reduction, transference, acceptance or avoidance of the identified risk. We also manage risk through four control elements that are designed to work in conjunction with each other: (1) risk policies, (2) risk limits, (3) delegations of authority, and (4) risk committees. •Risk Reporting & Monitoring. Our business units actively monitor emerging and identified risks that are taken when executing our strategies. Risks and concerns are reported to the appropriate level of management to ensure that the necessary action is taken to mitigate the risk. We manage risk by using a “three lines of defense” structure. The first line of defense is the active management of risk by the business unit. Each business unit is charged with conforming to the risk guidelines, risk appetite, risk policies and limits 114approved by the Board of Directors, the Board’s Risk Policy & Capital Committee and the executive-level Management Committee. The second line of defense is the Enterprise Risk Management division, which is responsible for ensuring compliance with the risk framework and independently reporting on risk management issues and performance, and the Compliance division, which is responsible for developing policies and procedures to help ensure that Fannie Mae and its employees comply with the law, our code of conduct and all regulatory obligations. The third line of defense is the Internal Audit group, which is responsible for ensuring all parties are performing the actions for which they are accountable and for identifying any omissions or potential process improvements. Enterprise Risk Management reports independently to the Board’s Risk Policy & Capital Committee and Internal Audit reports independently to the Board’s Audit Committee.Enterprise Risk Governance Our enterprise risk management structure consists of the Board of Directors, executive leadership, including the Chief Risk Officer, Deputy Chief Risk Officer and Chief Credit Officer, and the Enterprise Risk Management division, designated officers responsible for managing our financial risks, business unit chief risk officers and risk management committees. This structure is designed to encourage a culture of accountability within the divisions and promote effective risk management throughout the company. Our organizational structure and risk management framework work in conjunction with each other to identify risk-related trends with respect to customers, products or portfolios and external events and to develop appropriate strategies to mitigate emerging and identified risks.Under our enterprise risk management framework, each business unit is responsible for managing its risks but is subject to a governance and oversight process that includes independent oversight functions, management-level risk committees and Board-level engagement. Board of Directors The Risk Policy & Capital Committee of the Board, pursuant to its Charter, assists the Board in overseeing our management of risk and recommends for Board approval enterprise risk governance policy and limits. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls that we rely upon to provide reasonable assurance of compliance with our enterprise risk management processes.The Board of Directors delegates day-to-day management responsibilities to the Chief Executive Officer who then further delegates this responsibility among the company’s business unit heads, including the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Compliance Officer. Risk management oversight authority, including responsibility for setting appropriate controls such as limits and policies, is delegated to the Chief Risk Officer, who then delegates certain levels of risk management oversight authority to our Chief Credit Officer and to the chief risk officers of each business unit or functional risk area (for example, model and operational risk). Management-level business risk committees serve in an advisory capacity to those officers to whom risk management authority has been delegated. In addition, certain activities require the approval of our conservator. See “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance—Corporate Governance—Conservatorship and Delegation of Authority to Board of Directors” for information about these activities.Enterprise Risk Management DivisionOur Enterprise Risk Management division reports directly to the Chief Risk Officer who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Risk Officer also reports independently to the Board’s Risk Policy & Capital Committee. Enterprise Risk Management is responsible for the identification of emerging risks, the monitoring and reporting of risk within the existing policies and limits, and independent oversight of risk management across the company.Risk CommitteesWe use our management-level risk committees as a forum for discussing emerging risks, risk mitigation strategies and communication across business lines. Risk committees enhance the risk management framework by reinforcing our risk management culture and providing accountability for the resolution of key risk issues and decisions. Each business risk committee is chaired by the head of the business unit. In addition, the business unit chief risk officer can be designated as the committee co-chair or as a member of the committee who is responsible for the oversight of the risks discussed. Committees are also populated with key business and risk leaders from the respective business units.The primary management-level business risk committees include the Asset Liability Committee, the Enterprise Risk Committee, the Model Oversight Committee and the Operational Risk Committee, as well as specific committees for each line of business. Executive-level risk discussions are held primarily by the Operating Committee, which consists of members of our executive management. On a periodic basis, the Chief Risk Officer prepares a detailed summary of current and 115emerging risks, compliance with risk limits and other risk reports, and reports on these matters to both the Operating Committee and the Risk Policy & Capital Committee of the Board. The Chief Risk Officer also reports periodically on other topics to the Risk Policy & Capital Committee of the Board, as appropriate.Internal Audit Our Internal Audit group, under the direction of the Chief Audit Executive, provides an objective assessment of the design and execution of our internal control system, including our management systems, risk governance and policies and procedures. The Chief Audit Executive reports directly and independently to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, and audit personnel are compensated based on objectives set for the group by the Audit Committee rather than corporate financial results or goals. The Chief Audit Executive reports administratively to the Chief Executive Officer and may be removed only upon approval by the Board’s Audit Committee. Internal audit activities are designed to provide reasonable assurance that resources are safeguarded; that significant financial, managerial and operating information is complete, accurate and reliable; and that employee actions comply with our policies and applicable laws and regulations. Compliance and Ethics The Compliance and Ethics division, under the direction of the Chief Compliance Officer, is dedicated to developing and maintaining policies and procedures to help ensure that Fannie Mae and its employees comply with the law, our Code of Conduct and all regulatory obligations. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer and independently to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, and Compliance and Ethics personnel are compensated on objectives set for the group by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors rather than corporate financial results or goals. The Chief Compliance Officer may be removed only upon Board approval. The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for overseeing our compliance activities; developing and promoting a code of ethical conduct; evaluating and investigating any allegations of misconduct; and overseeing and coordinating regulatory reporting and examinations.Credit Risk ManagementWe are generally subject to two types of credit risk: mortgage credit risk and institutional counterparty credit risk. Market conditions as a result of the housing crisis resulted in significant exposure to mortgage and institutional counterparty credit risk. The metrics used to measure credit risk are generated using internal models. Our internal models require numerous assumptions and there are inherent limitations in any methodology used to estimate macroeconomic factors such as home prices, unemployment and interest rates, and their impact on borrower behavior. When market conditions change rapidly and dramatically, the assumptions of our models may no longer accurately capture or reflect the changing conditions. Management periodically makes judgments about the appropriateness of the risk assessments indicated by the models. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks associated with our use of models.Mortgage Credit Risk ManagementWe are exposed to credit risk on our mortgage credit book of business because we either hold mortgage assets, have issued a guaranty in connection with the creation of Fannie Mae MBS backed by mortgage assets or provided other credit enhancements on mortgage assets. While our mortgage credit book of business includes all of our mortgage-related assets, both on- and off-balance sheet, our guaranty book of business excludes non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities held in our retained mortgage portfolio for which we do not provide a guaranty. See “Glossary of Terms Used in This Report” for more detail.Mortgage Credit Book of BusinessTable 37 displays the composition of our mortgage credit book of business as of the dates indicated. Our single-family mortgage credit book of business accounted for 93% of our mortgage credit book of business as of December 31, 2013 and 2012.116Table 37: Composition of Mortgage Credit Book of Business(1) As of December 31, 2013 As of December 31, 2012 Single-Family Multifamily Total Single-Family Multifamily Total (Dollars in millions) Mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS(2)$2,862,306 $183,891 $3,046,197 $2,797,909 $188,418 $2,986,327Unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS, held by third parties(3)12,430 1,314 13,744 15,391 1,524 16,915Other credit guarantees(4)15,183 15,414 30,597 19,977 16,238 36,215Guaranty book of business$2,889,919 $200,619 $3,090,538 $2,833,277 $206,180 $3,039,457Agency mortgage-related securities(5)8,992 32 9,024 12,294 32 12,326Other mortgage-related securities(6)27,563 9,640 37,203 37,524 27,535 65,059Mortgage credit book of business $2,926,474 $210,291 $3,136,765 $2,883,095 $233,747 $3,116,842Guaranty Book of Business Detail: Conventional Guaranty Book of Business(7)$2,827,169 $198,906 $3,026,075 $2,764,903 $204,112 $2,969,015Government Guaranty Book of Business(8)$62,750 $1,713 $64,463 $68,374 $2,068 $70,442__________(1) Based on unpaid principal balance. (2) Consists of mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS recognized in our consolidated balance sheets. The principal balance of resecuritized Fannie Mae MBS is included only once in the reported amount.(3) Reflects unpaid principal balance of unconsolidated Fannie Mae MBS, held by third-party investors. The principal balance of resecuritized Fannie Mae MBS is included only once in the reported amount.(4) Consists of single-family and multifamily credit enhancements that we have provided and that are not otherwise reflected in the table.(5) Consists of mortgage-related securities issued by Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.(6) Consists primarily of mortgage revenue bonds, Alt-A and subprime private-label securities and CMBS.(7) Refers to mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities that are not guaranteed or insured, in whole or in part, by the U.S. government or one of its agencies. (8) Refers to mortgage loans and mortgage-related securities guaranteed or insured, in whole or in part, by the U.S. government or one of its agencies. In the following sections, we discuss the mortgage credit risk of the single-family and multifamily loans in our guaranty book of business. The credit statistics reported below, unless otherwise noted, pertain generally to the portion of our guaranty book of business for which we have access to detailed loan-level information, which constituted approximately 99% of each of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business and our multifamily guaranty book of business, excluding defeased loans, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. We typically obtain this data from the sellers or servicers of the mortgage loans in our guaranty book of business and receive representations and warranties from them as to the accuracy of the information. While we perform various quality assurance checks by sampling loans to assess compliance with our underwriting and eligibility criteria, we do not independently verify all reported information and we rely on lender representations regarding the accuracy of the characteristics of loans in our guaranty book of business. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risk that we could experience mortgage fraud as a result of this reliance on lender representations.Single-Family Mortgage Credit Risk ManagementOur strategy in managing single-family mortgage credit risk consists of four primary components: (1) our acquisition and servicing policies along with our underwriting and servicing standards, including the use of credit enhancements; (2) portfolio diversification and monitoring; (3) management of problem loans; and (4) REO management. These approaches may increase our expenses and may not be effective in reducing our credit-related expense or credit losses. We provide information on our credit-related income (expense) and credit losses in “Consolidated Results of Operations—Credit-Related Income (Expense).”In evaluating our single-family mortgage credit risk, we closely monitor changes in housing and economic conditions and the impact of those changes on the credit risk profile and performance of our single-family mortgage credit book of business. We regularly review and provide updates to our underwriting standards and eligibility guidelines that take into consideration changing market conditions. The credit risk profile of our single-family mortgage credit book of business is influenced by, 117among other things, the credit profile of the borrower, features of the loan, such as the loan product type and the type of property securing the loan, the housing market and the general economy. We focus more on those loans that we believe pose a higher risk of default, which typically have been loans associated with higher mark-to-market LTV ratios, loans to borrowers with lower FICO credit scores and certain higher risk loan product categories, such as Alt-A loans. These and other factors affect both the amount of expected credit loss on a given loan and the sensitivity of that loss to changes in the economic environment.The single-family credit statistics we focus on and report in the sections below generally relate to our single-family conventional guaranty book of business, which represents the substantial majority of our total single-family guaranty book of business.We provide additional information on non-Fannie Mae mortgage-related securities held in our portfolio, including the impairment that we have recognized on these securities, in “Note 5, Investments in Securities.”Single-Family Acquisition and Servicing Policies and Underwriting and Servicing Standards Our Single-Family business, with the oversight of our Enterprise Risk Management division, is responsible for pricing and managing credit risk relating to the portion of our single-family mortgage credit book of business consisting of single-family mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS backed by single-family mortgage loans (whether held in our portfolio or held by third parties). Desktop Underwriter™, our proprietary automated underwriting system which measures credit risk by assessing the primary risk factors of a mortgage, is used to evaluate the majority of the loans we purchase or securitize. As part of our regular evaluation of Desktop Underwriter, we conduct periodic examinations of the underlying risk assessment models and recalibrate the models based on actual loan performance and market assumptions to improve Desktop Underwriter’s ability to effectively analyze risk. Subject to our prior approval, we also may purchase and securitize mortgage loans that have been underwritten using other automated underwriting systems, as well as manually underwritten mortgage loans that meet our stated underwriting requirements or meet agreed-upon standards that differ from our standard underwriting and eligibility criteria. We initiated underwriting and eligibility changes that became effective for deliveries in late 2008 and 2009 that focused on strengthening our underwriting and eligibility standards to promote sustainable homeownership. The result of many of these changes is reflected in the substantially improved risk profile of our single-family loan acquisitions since 2009. We periodically make updates to Desktop Underwriter for underwriting and eligibility changes and changes to our Selling Guide, which sets forth our policies and procedures related to selling single-family mortgages to us.Table 38 below displays information regarding the credit characteristics of the loans in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013 by acquisition period, which illustrates the improvement in the credit risk profile of loans we acquired beginning in 2009 compared with loans we acquired in 2005 through 2008.Table 38: Selected Credit Characteristics of Single-Family Conventional Loans Held, by Acquisition Period As of December 31, 2013 % of Single-Family Current Current Conventional Estimated Mark-to-Market Serious Guaranty Book Mark-to-Market LTV Ratio Delinquency of Business(1) LTV Ratio >100%(2) Rate(3)New Single-Family Book of Business77% 65% 4% 0.33%Legacy Book of Business: 2005-200815 86 27 9.32 2004 and prior8 50 3 3.52 Total Single-Family Book of Business100% 67% 7% 2.38%__________ (1)Calculated based on the aggregate unpaid principal balance of single-family loans for each category divided by the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013.(2)The majority of loans in our new single-family book of business as of December 31, 2013 with mark-to-market LTV ratios over 100% were loans acquired under the Administration’s Home Affordable Refinance Program. See “HARP and Refi Plus Loans” below for more information on our recent acquisitions of loans with high LTV ratios.(3)The serious delinquency rates for loans acquired in more recent years will be higher after the loans have aged, but we do not expect them to approach the levels of the December 31, 2013 serious delinquency rates of loans in our legacy book of business. The serious delinquency rate as of December 31, 2013 for loans we acquired in 2009, the oldest vintage in our new book of business, was 1.05%.118As part of our credit risk management process, we conduct reviews on random samples of performing loans soon after acquisition in order to identify loans that may not have met our underwriting or eligibility requirements. Performance for the random sample is measured using a significant findings rate, which represents the proportion of loans in the sample population with significant underwriting defects. The significant findings rate does not necessarily indicate how well the loans will ultimately perform. Instead, we use it to estimate the percentage of loans we acquired that potentially had a significant error in the underwriting process. Based on these reviews, we believe that, over the last three years, the percentage of loans we acquired that have significant underwriting defects has been reduced. Beginning with loans delivered in 2013, and in conjunction with our new representation and warranty framework that is discussed below, we have made changes in our quality control process that move the primary focus of our quality control reviews from the time a loan defaults to shortly after the time the loan is delivered to us. We have implemented new tools to help identify loans delivered to us that may not have met our underwriting or eligibility guidelines and use these tools to help select a discretionary sample of loans for quality control reviews shortly after delivery. Our quality control includes reviewing and recording underwriting defects noted in the file, and determining if the loan sold met our underwriting and eligibility guidelines. We also use these reviews to provide lenders with earlier feedback on underwriting defects. Because of these changes, the significant findings rate for 2013 deliveries, which we will begin to report later in 2014, will not be comparable to prior period reporting.Our representation and warranty framework for conventional loans acquired on or after January 1, 2013, which is part of FHFA’s seller-servicer contract harmonization initiative, seeks to provide lenders a higher degree of certainty and clarity regarding their repurchase exposure and liability on future deliveries, as well as consistency around repurchase timelines and remedies. Under the new framework, lenders will be relieved of certain repurchase obligations for loans that meet specific payment history requirements and other eligibility requirements. For example, a lender would not be required to repurchase a mortgage loan in breach of certain underwriting and eligibility representations and warranties if the borrower has made timely payments for 36 months following the acquisition date (or, for Refi Plus loans, for 12 months following the acquisition date), and the loan meets other specified eligibility requirements. Certain representations and warranties are “life of loan” representations and warranties, meaning that no relief from enforcement is available to lenders regardless of the number of payments made by a borrower. Examples of life of loan representations and warranties include, but are not limited to, a lender’s representation and warranty that it has originated a loan in compliance with all laws and that the loan conforms to our Charter requirements. As discussed in “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—Charter Act,” our charter generally requires credit enhancement on any single-family conventional mortgage loan that we purchase or securitize if it has an LTV ratio over 80% at the time of purchase. However, under HARP, we allow our borrowers who have mortgage loans with current LTV ratios above 80% to refinance their mortgages without obtaining new mortgage insurance in excess of what was already in place. See “Credit Profile Summary—HARP and Refi Plus Loans” below for more discussion on HARP and its impact on our single-family conventional business volume and guaranty book of business.Borrower-paid primary mortgage insurance is the most common type of credit enhancement in our single-family guaranty book of business. Primary mortgage insurance transfers varying portions of the credit risk associated with a mortgage loan to a third-party insurer. In order for us to receive a payment in settlement of a claim under a primary mortgage insurance policy, the insured loan must be in default and the borrower’s interest in the property that secured the loan must have been extinguished, generally in a foreclosure action. The claims process for primary mortgage insurance typically takes three to six months after title to the property has been transferred.Mortgage insurers may also provide pool mortgage insurance, which is insurance that applies to a defined group of loans. Pool mortgage insurance benefits typically are based on actual loss incurred and are subject to an aggregate loss limit. Under some of our pool mortgage insurance policies, we are required to meet specified loss deductibles before we can recover under the policy. We typically collect claims under pool mortgage insurance three to six months after disposition of the property that secured the loan. For a discussion of our aggregate mortgage insurance coverage as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, see “Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Institutional Counterparty Credit Risk Management—Mortgage Insurers.” Our mortgage servicers are the primary points of contact for borrowers and perform a vital role in our efforts to reduce defaults and pursue foreclosure alternatives. We discuss the actions we have taken to improve the servicing of our delinquent loans below in “Problem Loan Management.”FHFA’s 2013 conservatorship scorecard included an objective to demonstrate the viability of multiple types of risk transfer transactions involving single-family mortgages with at least $30 billion of unpaid principal balance. In October 2013, we issued our first credit risk sharing securities under our Connecticut Avenue Securities (“C-deal”) series. In contrast to our typical Fannie Mae MBS transaction, where we retain all of the credit risk associated with losses on the underlying mortgage 119loans, our credit risk sharing securities transfer some of this credit risk to the investors in these securities, in exchange for sharing a portion of the guaranty fee payments. We issued $675 million in credit risk sharing securities in 2013, transferring a portion of credit risk on mortgages with an unpaid principal balance of approximately $27 billion. This first C-deal resulted in $25 billion of credit protection and was one of two types of risk transfer transactions that we completed in 2013. We also announced in October 2013 that we entered into a pool insurance policy with National Mortgage Insurance Corporation, which transferred a portion of credit risk on a pool of securitized single-family mortgages with an initial unpaid principal balance of nearly $5.2 billion. In addition, we issued $750 million in credit risk sharing securities in January 2014, transferring a portion of credit risk on residential mortgages with an unpaid principal balance of approximately $29 billion. This second C-deal resulted in approximately $28 billion of credit protection. Single-Family Portfolio Diversification and MonitoringDiversification within our single-family mortgage credit book of business by product type, loan characteristics and geography is an important factor that influences credit quality and performance and may reduce our credit risk. We monitor various loan attributes, in conjunction with housing market and economic conditions, to determine if our pricing and our eligibility and underwriting criteria accurately reflect the risk associated with loans we acquire or guarantee. In some cases, we may decide to significantly reduce our participation in riskier loan product categories. We also review the payment performance of loans in order to help identify potential problem loans early in the delinquency cycle and to guide the development of our loss mitigation strategies.The profile of our guaranty book of business is comprised of the following key loan attributes:•LTV ratio. LTV ratio is a strong predictor of credit performance. The likelihood of default and the gross severity of a loss in the event of default are typically lower as the LTV ratio decreases. This also applies to the estimated mark-to-market LTV ratios, particularly those over 100%, as this indicates that the borrower’s mortgage balance exceeds the property value.•Product type. Certain loan product types have features that may result in increased risk. Generally, intermediate-term, fixed-rate mortgages exhibit the lowest default rates, followed by long-term, fixed-rate mortgages. Historically, adjustable-rate mortgages (“ARMs”), including negative-amortizing and interest-only loans, and balloon/reset mortgages have exhibited higher default rates than fixed-rate mortgages, partly because the borrower’s payments rose, within limits, as interest rates changed.•Number of units. Mortgages on one-unit properties tend to have lower credit risk than mortgages on two-, three- or four-unit properties.•Property type. Certain property types have a higher risk of default. For example, condominiums generally are considered to have higher credit risk than single-family detached properties.•Occupancy type. Mortgages on properties occupied by the borrower as a primary or secondary residence tend to have lower credit risk than mortgages on investment properties.•Credit score. Credit score is a measure often used by the financial services industry, including our company, to assess borrower credit quality and the likelihood that a borrower will repay future obligations as expected. A higher credit score typically indicates lower credit risk.•Loan purpose. Loan purpose refers to how the borrower intends to use the funds from a mortgage loan—either for a home purchase or refinancing of an existing mortgage. Cash-out refinancings have a higher risk of default than either mortgage loans used for the purchase of a property or other refinancings that restrict the amount of cash returned to the borrower.•Geographic concentration. Local economic conditions affect borrowers’ ability to repay loans and the value of collateral underlying loans. Geographic diversification reduces mortgage credit risk.•Loan age. We monitor year of origination and loan age, which is defined as the number of years since origination. Credit losses on mortgage loans typically do not peak until the third through six years following origination; however, this range can vary based on many factors, including changes in macroeconomic conditions and foreclosure timelines.Table 39 displays our single-family conventional business volumes and our single-family conventional guaranty book of business for the periods indicated, based on certain key risk characteristics that we use to evaluate the risk profile and credit quality of our single-family loans.120Table 39: Risk Characteristics of Single-Family Conventional Business Volume and Guaranty Book of Business(1) Percent of Single-FamilyConventional Business Volume(2)For the Year Ended December 31, Percent of Single-FamilyConventional Guaranty Book of Business(3)(4)As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Original LTV ratio:(5) <= 60%22%25%29%22%23%24%60.01% to 70%14 15 16 15 15 16 70.01% to 80%35 35 37 38 39 40 80.01% to 90%(6)10 9 9 10 10 10 90.01% to 100%(6)12 8 7 10 10 9 100.01% to 125%(6)4 5 2 3 2 1 Greater than 125%(6)3 3 — 2 1 — Total100%100%100%100%100%100%Weighted average76%75%69%74%73%71%Average loan amount$204,750 $213,515 $209,847 $160,357 $157,512 $156,194 Estimated mark-to-market LTV ratio:(7) <= 60% 38%28%26%60.01% to 70% 19 15 12 70.01% to 80% 19 22 18 80.01% to 90% 11 13 16 90.01% to 100% 6 9 10 100.01% to 125% 5 8 11 Greater than 125% 2 5 7 Total 100%100%100%Weighted average 67%75%79%Product type: Fixed-rate:(8) Long-term76%74%67%72%72%73%Intermediate-term22 23 26 18 17 15 Interest-only* * * 1 1 1 Total fixed-rate98 97 93 91 90 89 Adjustable-rate: Interest-only* * 1 2 3 3 Other ARMs2 3 6 7 7 8 Total adjustable-rate2 3 7 9 10 11 Total100%100%100%100%100%100%Number of property units: 1 unit97%98%97%97%97%97%2-4 units3 2 3 3 3 3 Total100%100%100%100%100%100%Property type: Single-family homes90%91%91%91%91%91%Condo/Co-op10 9 9 9 9 9 Total100%100%100%100%100%100%Occupancy type: Primary residence87%89%89%88%89%89%Second/vacation home4 4 5 4 4 5 Investor9 7 6 8 7 6 Total100%100%100%100%100%100%121 Percent of Single-FamilyConventional Business Volume(2)For the Year Ended December 31, Percent of Single-FamilyConventional Guaranty Book of Business(3)(4)As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 FICO credit score at origination: < 6201%1%*%3%3%3%620 to < 6604 2 2 5 6 7 660 to < 70010 7 7 12 12 13 700 to < 74018 16 16 19 20 20 >= 74067 74 75 61 59 57 Total100%100%100%100%100%100%Weighted average753 761 762 744 742 738 Loan purpose: Purchase30%21%24%28%28%31%Cash-out refinance14 14 17 21 24 27 Other refinance56 65 59 51 48 42 Total100%100%100%100%100%100%Geographic concentration:(9) Midwest14%16%15%15%15%15%Northeast17 17 19 19 19 19 Southeast20 19 19 22 23 24 Southwest17 16 16 16 16 15 West32 32 31 28 27 27 Total100%100%100%100%100%100%Origination year: < = 2004 9%13%18%2005 4 5 7 2006 3 5 7 2007 5 7 10 2008 3 5 7 2009 7 11 17 2010 10 13 18 2011 11 15 16 2012 26 26 — 2013 22 — — Total 100%100%100% __________ *Represents less than 0.5% of single-family conventional business volume or book of business.(1) Second lien mortgage loans held by third parties are not reflected in the original LTV or mark-to-market LTV ratios in this table. Second lien mortgage loans represented less than 0.5% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. (2) Calculated based on unpaid principal balance of single-family loans for each category at time of acquisition. Single-family business volume refers to both single-family mortgage loans we purchase for our retained mortgage portfolio and single-family mortgage loans we guarantee.(3) Calculated based on the aggregate unpaid principal balance of single-family loans for each category divided by the aggregate unpaid principal balance of loans in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business as of the end of each period.(4) Our single-family conventional guaranty book of business includes jumbo-conforming and high-balance loans that represented approximately 5% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. See “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—Charter Act—Loan Standards” and “Credit Profile Summary—Jumbo-Conforming and High-Balance Loans” for information on our loan limits.(5) The original LTV ratio generally is based on the original unpaid principal balance of the loan divided by the appraised property value reported to us at the time of acquisition of the loan. Excludes loans for which this information is not readily available.122(6) We purchase loans with original LTV ratios above 80% to fulfill our mission to serve the primary mortgage market and provide liquidity to the housing system. Except as permitted under HARP, our charter generally requires primary mortgage insurance or other credit enhancement for loans that we acquire that have an LTV ratio over 80%.(7) The aggregate estimated mark-to-market LTV ratio is based on the unpaid principal balance of the loan as of the end of each reported period divided by the estimated current value of the property, which we calculate using an internal valuation model that estimates periodic changes in home value. Excludes loans for which this information is not readily available.(8) Long-term fixed-rate consists of mortgage loans with maturities greater than 15 years, while intermediate-term fixed-rate loans have maturities equal to or less than 15 years. Loans with interest-only terms are included in the interest-only category regardless of their maturities.(9) Midwest consists of IL, IN, IA, MI, MN, NE, ND, OH, SD and WI. Northeast consists of CT, DE, ME, MA, NH, NJ, NY, PA, PR, RI, VT and VI. Southeast consists of AL, DC, FL, GA, KY, MD, MS, NC, SC, TN, VA and WV. Southwest consists of AZ, AR, CO, KS, LA, MO, NM, OK, TX and UT. West consists of AK, CA, GU, HI, ID, MT, NV, OR, WA and WY. Credit Profile SummaryAlthough there was a shift in the credit risk profile of our 2013 acquisitions to include a greater proportion of loans with higher LTV ratios and lower FICO credit scores than our 2012 acquisitions, the single-family loans we purchased or guaranteed in 2013 continued to have a strong credit profile with a weighted average original LTV ratio of 76%, a weighted average FICO credit score of 753, and a product mix with a significant percentage of fully amortizing fixed-rate mortgage loans. The average original LTV ratio of single-family loans we acquired in 2013, excluding HARP loans, was 70%, compared with 110% for HARP loans. The weighted-average FICO credit score of the single-family mortgage loans we acquired in 2013, excluding HARP loans, was 757, compared with 722 for HARP loans.The credit profile of our future acquisitions will depend on many factors, including our future pricing and eligibility standards and those of mortgage insurers and FHA, the percentage of loan originations representing refinancings, our future objectives, government policy, market and competitive conditions, and the volume and characteristics of loans we acquire under HARP. We expect the ultimate performance of all our loans will be affected by borrower behavior, public policy and macroeconomic trends, including unemployment, the economy and home prices. Our acquisition of loans with original LTV ratios over 80% increased to 29% in 2013 from 25% in 2012. This increase was primarily due to acquisitions of home mortgage purchase loans. In addition, our acquisitions of other refinance loan types decreased to 56% in 2013 from 65% in 2012, which was primarily due to the increase in mortgage rates in 2013. Our acquisition of loans with FICO credit scores at origination of less than 700 increased to 15% in 2013, compared with 10% in 2012, and the weighted average FICO credit score at origination decreased to 753 in 2013, compared with 761 in 2012.Home prices increased by 8.8% in 2013 and by 4.2% in 2012, resulting in a decrease in the estimated weighted average mark-to-market LTV ratio of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business. As of December 31, 2013, the estimated weighted average mark-to-market LTV ratio of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business was 67% compared with 75% as of December 31, 2012 and 79% as of December 31, 2011. The portion of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business with an estimated mark-to-market LTV ratio greater than 100% was 7% as of December 31, 2013, 13% as of December 31, 2012 and 18% as of December 31, 2011. If home prices were to decline, more loans would have mark-to-market LTV ratios greater than 100%, which increases the risk of delinquency and default. However, as described in “Business —Executive Summary—Outlook,” we expect home prices to continue to grow on a national basis in 2014, but at a lower rate than in 2013.HARP and Refi Plus LoansSince 2009, our acquisitions have included a significant number of loans that are refinancings of existing Fannie Mae loans under HARP, which was designed to expand refinancing opportunities for borrowers who may otherwise be unable to refinance their mortgage loans due to a decline in home values. We offer HARP under our Refi Plus initiative, which offers additional refinancing flexibility to eligible borrowers who are current on their loans and whose loans are owned or guaranteed by us and meet certain additional criteria. Under HARP, we allow our borrowers who have mortgage loans with current LTV ratios greater than 80% to refinance their mortgages without obtaining new mortgage insurance in excess of what is already in place. Accordingly, HARP loans have LTV ratios at origination in excess of 80%. HARP loans cannot (1) be an adjustable-rate mortgage loan, if the initial fixed period is less than five years; (2) have an interest only feature, which permits the payment of interest without a payment of principal; (3) be a balloon mortgage loan; or (4) have the potential for negative amortization.Under HARP we were previously authorized to acquire loans only if their current LTV ratios did not exceed 125% for fixed-rate loans or 105% for adjustable-rate mortgages. Changes to HARP implemented in the first half of 2012 extended refinancing flexibility to eligible borrowers with loans that have LTV ratios greater than 125% for fixed-rate loans, which 123made the benefits of HARP available to a greater number of borrowers. The loans we acquire under HARP have higher LTV ratios than we would otherwise permit, greater than 100% in some cases. In addition to the high LTV ratios that characterize HARP loans, some borrowers for HARP and Refi Plus loans also have lower FICO credit scores and/or may provide less documentation than we would otherwise require. In April 2013, FHFA announced the extension of the ending date for HARP to December 31, 2015. Loans we acquire under Refi Plus and HARP represent refinancings of loans that are already in our guaranty book of business. The credit risk associated with the acquired loans essentially replaces the credit risk that we already held prior to the refinancing. These loans have higher risk profiles and higher serious delinquency rates and may not perform as well as the other loans we have acquired since the beginning of 2009. However, we expect these loans will perform better than the loans they replace, because HARP and Refi Plus loans should either reduce the borrowers’ monthly payments or provide more stable terms than the borrowers’ old loans (for example, by refinancing into a mortgage with a fixed interest rate instead of an adjustable rate). Although mortgage rates remain low by historical standards, they have increased in recent months. As a result, the percentage of acquisitions that are refinanced loans, including loans acquired under our Refi Plus initiative, which includes HARP, has started to decline. HARP loans constituted approximately 14% of our total single-family acquisitions in 2013, compared with approximately 16% of total single-family acquisitions in 2012 and 10% in 2011. Due to the increase in the volume of HARP loans with higher LTV ratios, the weighted average LTV ratio at origination for our acquisitions in 2013 and 2012 was higher than for our acquisitions in 2011. We expect the volume of refinancings under HARP to continue to decline, due to the increase in interest rates and a decrease in the population of borrowers with loans that have high LTV ratios who are willing to refinance and would benefit from refinancing. Approximately 3% of our total single-family conventional business volume for 2013 consisted of refinanced loans with LTV ratios greater than 125% at the time of acquisition. In addition, approximately 2% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business consisted of loans with an estimated mark-to-market LTV ratio greater than 125% as of December 31, 2013.Table 40 displays the serious delinquency rates and current mark-to-market LTV ratios as of December 31, 2013 of single-family loans we acquired under HARP and Refi Plus compared with the other single-family loans we acquired since the beginning of 2009.Table 40: Selected Credit Characteristics of Single-Family Conventional Loans Acquired under HARP and Refi Plus As of December 31, 2013 Percentage of New Book CurrentMark-to-MarketLTV Ratio> 100% FICO Credit Score at Origination(1) Serious Delinquency RateHARP(2) 15%25% 734 0.84%Other Refi Plus(3) 10 * 749 0.31Total Refi Plus 25 14 741 0.58Non-Refi Plus(4) 75 * 761 0.23Total new book of business(5) 100%4% 756 0.33%__________ *Represents less than 0.5%.(1) In the case of refinancings, represents FICO credit score at the time of the refinancing.(2) HARP loans have LTV ratios at origination in excess of 80%. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we revised our presentation of the data to reflect all loans under our Refi Plus program with LTV ratios at origination in excess of 80% as HARP loans. Previously we did not reflect loans that were backed by second homes or investor properties as HARP loans.(3) Other Refi Plus includes all other Refi Plus loans that are not HARP loans.(4) Includes primarily other refinancings and home purchase mortgages.(5) Refers to single-family mortgage loans we have acquired since the beginning of 2009.Alt-A and Subprime LoansWe classify certain loans as subprime or Alt-A so that we can discuss our exposure to subprime and Alt-A loans in this Form 10-K and elsewhere. However, there is no universally accepted definition of subprime or Alt-A loans. Our single-family conventional guaranty book of business includes loans with some features that are similar to Alt-A loans or subprime loans that we have not classified as Alt-A or subprime because they do not meet our classification criteria.124We do not rely solely on our classifications of loans as Alt-A or subprime to evaluate the credit risk exposure relating to these loans in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business. For more information about the credit risk characteristics of loans in our single-family guaranty book of business, see “Note 3, Mortgage Loans” and “Note 6, Financial Guarantees.”Our exposure to Alt-A and subprime loans included in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business, based on the classification criteria described in this section, does not include (1) our investments in private-label mortgage-related securities backed by Alt-A and subprime loans or (2) resecuritizations, or wraps, of private-label mortgage-related securities backed by Alt-A mortgage loans that we have guaranteed. See “Note 5, Investments in Securities” for more information on our exposure to private-label mortgage-related securities backed by Alt-A and subprime loans. As a result of our decision to discontinue the purchase of newly originated Alt-A loans, except for those that represent the refinancing of a loan we acquired prior to 2009, we expect our acquisitions of Alt-A mortgage loans to continue to be minimal in future periods and the percentage of the book of business attributable to Alt-A to continue to decrease over time. We are also not currently acquiring newly originated subprime loans, although we are acquiring refinancings of existing Fannie Mae subprime loans in connection with our Refi Plus initiative. Unlike the loans they replace, these refinancings are not included in our reported subprime loans because they do not meet our classification criteria for subprime loans.We have classified a mortgage loan as Alt-A if and only if the lender that delivered the loan to us classified the loan as Alt-A, based on documentation or other features. We have classified a mortgage loan as subprime if and only if the loan was originated by a lender specializing in subprime business or by a subprime division of a large lender; however, we exclude loans originated by these lenders from the subprime classification if we acquired the loans in accordance with our standard underwriting criteria, which typically require compliance by the seller with our Selling Guide (including standard representations and warranties) and/or evaluation of the loans through our Desktop Underwriter system. The unpaid principal balance of Alt-A loans included in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business of $131.3 billion as of December 31, 2013, represented approximately 5.0% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business. The unpaid principal balance of subprime loans included in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business of $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2013, represented approximately 0.1% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business. Jumbo-Conforming and High-Balance LoansThe outstanding unpaid principal balance of our jumbo-conforming and high-balance loans was $142.3 billion, or 5.0% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business, as of December 31, 2013 and $129.0 billion, or 4.7% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business, as of December 31, 2012. The standard conforming loan limit for a one-unit property was $417,000 in 2013 and 2012. Our loan limits were higher in specified high-cost areas, reaching as high as $729,750 for one-unit properties; however, our loan limits for loans originated after September 30, 2011 decreased in specified high-cost areas to an amount not to exceed $625,500 for one-unit properties. Our current loan limits apply to all new acquisitions; therefore, we cannot refinance any of our existing loans that are above our current loan limits. See “Business—Our Charter and Regulation of Our Activities—Charter Act—Loan Standards” for additional information on our loan limits, including potential future reductions in our loan limits.Reverse MortgagesThe outstanding unpaid principal balance of reverse mortgage loans and Fannie Mae MBS backed by reverse mortgage loans in our guaranty book of business was $48.0 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $50.2 billion as of December 31, 2012. Since December 2010, we ceased acquisitions of newly originated reverse mortgages. The balance of our reverse mortgage loans could increase over time, as each month the scheduled and unscheduled payments, interest, mortgage insurance premium, servicing fee and default-related costs accrue to increase the unpaid principal balance. The majority of these loans are home equity conversion mortgages insured by the federal government through FHA. Because home equity conversion mortgages are insured by the federal government, we believe that we have limited exposure to losses on these loans. Adjustable-rate Mortgages (“ARMs”) and Fixed-rate Interest-only MortgagesARMs are mortgage loans with an interest rate that adjusts periodically over the life of the mortgage based on changes in a specified index. Interest-only loans allow the borrower to pay only the monthly interest due, and none of the principal, for a fixed term. The majority of our interest-only loans are ARMs. Our negative-amortizing loans are ARMs that allow the borrower to make monthly payments that are less than the interest actually accrued for the period. The unpaid interest is added to the principal balance of the loan, which increases the outstanding loan balance. ARMs represented approximately 9.0% of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business as of December 31, 2013.Table 41 displays information for ARMs and fixed-rate interest-only loans in our single-family guaranty book of business, aggregated by product type and categorized by the year of their next scheduled contractual reset date. The contractual reset is 125either an adjustment to the loan’s interest rate or a scheduled change to the loan’s monthly payment to begin to reflect the payment of principal. The timing of the actual reset dates may differ from those presented due to a number of factors, including refinancing or exercising of other provisions within the terms of the mortgage.Table 41: Single-Family Adjustable-Rate Mortgage Resets by Year(1) Reset Year 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thereafter Total (Dollars in millions)ARMs—Amortizing$42,492 $48,898 $24,882 $16,505 $16,255 $22,666 $171,698ARMs—Interest Only33,246 12,591 5,485 3,522 2,199 3,711 60,754ARMs—Negative Amortizing4,797 666 401 183 37 — 6,084Total$80,535 $62,155 $30,768 $20,210 $18,491 $26,377 $238,536Fixed-Rate Interest Only$74 $666 $3,716 $7,135 $1,512 $499 $13,602__________(1) Does not include loans we have modified, some of which are subject to higher interest rates and increased monthly payments in the future. Also excludes loans for which there is not an additional reset for the remaining life of the loan.We have not observed a materially different performance trend for interest-only loans or negative-amortizing loans that have recently reset as compared to those that are still in the initial period. We believe the current performance trend is the result of the current low interest rate environment and do not expect this trend to continue if interest rates rise significantly.Problem Loan ManagementOur problem loan management strategies are primarily focused on reducing defaults to avoid losses that would otherwise occur and pursuing foreclosure alternatives to attempt to minimize the severity of the losses we incur. If a borrower does not make required payments, or is in jeopardy of not making payments, we work with the servicers of our loans to offer workout solutions to minimize the likelihood of foreclosure as well as the severity of loss. Our loan workouts reflect our various types of home retention solutions, including loan modifications, repayment plans and forbearances, and foreclosure alternatives, including short sales and deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure. When appropriate, we seek to move to foreclosure expeditiously.We seek to improve the servicing of our delinquent loans through a variety of means, including improving our communications with and training of our servicers, directing servicers to contact borrowers at an earlier stage of delinquency and improve their telephone communications with borrowers, and holding our servicers accountable for following our requirements. In 2011, we issued new standards for mortgage servicers regarding the management of delinquent loans, default prevention and foreclosure time frames under FHFA’s directive to align GSE policies for servicing delinquent mortgages. The new standards, reinforced by new incentives and compensatory fees, require servicers to take a more consistent approach for homeowner communications, loan modifications and other workouts, and, when necessary, foreclosures.In addition to the new standards, we took other steps to improve the servicing of our delinquent loans, which included transferring servicing on loan populations that include loans with higher-risk characteristics to special servicers with which we have worked to develop high-touch protocols for servicing these loans. We believe retaining special servicers to service these loans using high-touch protocols will reduce our future credit losses on the transferred loan portfolio. We continue to work with some of our servicers to test and implement high-touch servicing protocols designed for managing higher-risk loans, which include lower ratios of loans per servicer employee, beginning borrower outreach strategies earlier in the delinquency cycle and establishing a single point of contact for distressed borrowers. The efforts of our mortgage servicers are critical in keeping people in their homes and preventing foreclosures. We continue to work with our servicers to implement our foreclosure prevention initiatives effectively and to find ways to enhance our workout protocols and their workflow processes. As of December 31, 2013, we were operating nine Mortgage Help Centers across the nation to accelerate the response time for struggling borrowers with loans owned by us. During 2013, the Mortgage Help Centers assisted borrowers in obtaining nearly 12,000 home retention plans leading to about 9,000 modification trial starts. We have also established partnerships with 14 local non-profit organizations, collectively known as our Mortgage Help Network, providing borrower assistance in 12 local markets and assistance by phone and Internet in all 50 states. The Mortgage Help Network represents a contractual relationship with select not-for-profit counseling agencies located in our top delinquent mortgage markets to provide borrowers foreclosure prevention counseling, documentation and assistance with pending loan workout solutions. We also use direct mail and phone calls to encourage homeowners to pursue 126home retention solutions and foreclosure alternatives, and have established partnerships with counseling agencies in all 50 states to provide similar services. We established the Short Sale Assistance Desk to assist real estate professionals in handling post-offer short sale issues that may relate to servicer responsiveness, the existence of a second lien or issues involving mortgage insurance. In the following section, we present statistics on our problem loans, describe specific efforts undertaken to manage these loans and prevent foreclosures, and provide metrics regarding the performance of our loan workout activities. Unless otherwise noted, single-family delinquency data is calculated based on number of loans. We include single-family conventional loans that we own and those that back Fannie Mae MBS in the calculation of the single-family delinquency rate. Seriously delinquent loans are loans that are 90 days or more past due or in the foreclosure process. Percentage of book outstanding calculations are based on the unpaid principal balance of loans for each category divided by the unpaid principal balance of our total single-family guaranty book of business for which we have detailed loan-level information.Problem Loan StatisticsThe following table displays the delinquency status of loans in our single-family conventional guaranty book of business (based on number of loans) as of the dates indicated.Table 42: Delinquency Status of Single-Family Conventional Loans As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011Delinquency status: 30 to 59 days delinquent1.64% 1.96% 2.17%60 to 89 days delinquent0.49 0.66 0.74Seriously delinquent2.38 3.29 3.91Percentage of seriously delinquent loans that have been delinquent for more than 180 days73% 72% 70%Our single-family serious delinquency rate has decreased each quarter since the first quarter of 2010. The decrease in our serious delinquency rate is primarily the result of home retention solutions, foreclosure alternatives and completed foreclosures, as well as our acquisition of loans with stronger credit profiles since the beginning of 2009. Our new single-family book of business represented 77% of our single-family guaranty book of business and had a serious delinquency rate of 0.33% as of December 31, 2013.Although our serious delinquency rate has decreased, this rate and the period of time that loans remain seriously delinquent continue to be negatively impacted by the length of time required to complete a foreclosure. High levels of foreclosures, changes in state foreclosure laws, new federal and state servicing requirements imposed by regulatory actions and legal settlements, and the need for servicers to adapt to these changes have lengthened the time it takes to foreclose on a mortgage loan in many states. Longer foreclosure timelines result in these loans remaining in our book of business for a longer time, which has caused our serious delinquency rate to decrease more slowly in the last few years than it would have if the pace of foreclosures had been faster. We believe the slow pace of foreclosures will continue to negatively affect our single-family serious delinquency rates, foreclosure timelines and credit-related income (expense). Other factors such as the pace of loan modifications, changes in home prices, unemployment levels and other macroeconomic conditions also influence serious delinquency rates. We expect the number of our single-family loans in our book of business that are seriously delinquent to remain above pre-2008 levels for years.Table 43 displays a comparison, by geographic region and by loans with and without credit enhancement, of the serious delinquency rates as of the dates indicated for single-family conventional loans in our single-family guaranty book of business. Serious delinquency rates vary by geographic region due to many factors including regional home prices, unemployment, economic conditions and state foreclosure timelines.127Table 43: Single-Family Serious Delinquency Rates As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Percentage of Book Outstanding Serious Delinquency Rate Percentage of Book Outstanding Serious Delinquency Rate Percentage of Book Outstanding Serious Delinquency RateSingle-family conventional delinquency rates by geographic region:(1) Midwest 15% 2.00% 15% 2.92% 15% 3.73% Northeast 19 3.88 19 4.40 19 4.43 Southeast 22 3.33 23 4.78 24 5.68 Southwest 16 1.23 16 1.76 15 2.30 West 28 1.40 27 2.28 27 2.87 Total single-family conventional loans 100% 2.38% 100% 3.29% 100% 3.91% Single-family conventional loans: Credit enhanced 15% 4.75% 14% 7.09% 14% 9.10% Non-credit enhanced 85 2.00 86 2.70 86 3.07 Total single-family conventional loans 100% 2.38% 100% 3.29% 100% 3.91% __________(1)See footnote 9 to “Table 39: Risk Characteristics of Single-Family Conventional Business Volume and Guaranty Book of Business” for states included in each geographic region.Certain higher-risk loan categories, such as Alt-A loans and loans with higher mark-to-market LTV ratios, and our 2005 through 2008 loan vintages continue to exhibit higher than average delinquency rates and/or account for a higher share of our credit losses. In addition, loans in certain states such as Florida, Illinois, New Jersey and New York have exhibited higher than average delinquency rates and/or account for a higher share of our credit losses.Table 44 displays the serious delinquency rates and other financial information for our single-family conventional loans with some of these higher-risk characteristics and in some of these higher risk states as of the dates indicated. We also include information for our loans in California, as this state accounts for a large share of our single-family conventional guaranty book of business. The reported categories are not mutually exclusive.128Table 44: Single-Family Conventional Serious Delinquent Loan Concentration Analysis As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Unpaid Principal Balance Percentage of Book Outstanding Serious Delinquency Rate Estimated Mark-to-Market LTVRatio (1) Unpaid Principal Balance Percentage of Book Outstanding Serious Delinquency Rate Estimated Mark-to-Market LTVRatio (1) Unpaid Principal Balance Percentage of Book Outstanding Serious Delinquency Rate Estimated Mark-to-Market LTVRatio (1) (Dollars in millions) States: California$551,376 20% 0.98% 58% $523,602 19% 1.69% 73% $516,608 19% 2.46% 81%Florida160,415 6 6.89 80 165,377 6 10.06 96 175,344 6 11.80 108Illinois116,318 4 3.12 76 117,111 4 4.70 86 118,682 4 5.77 87New Jersey113,088 4 6.25 69 110,409 4 6.92 74 110,432 4 6.65 74New York157,310 5 4.42 61 154,990 6 4.70 64 155,822 6 4.59 65All other states1,721,819 61 1.85 68 1,685,637 61 2.56 74 1,684,611 61 3.06 77Product type: Alt-A131,288 5 9.23 83 155,469 6 11.36 96 182,236 7 12.43 101Subprime4,197 * 16.93 95 5,035 * 20.60 107 5,791 * 23.18 111Vintages: 200599,580 4 7.26 78 139,204 5 7.79 90 190,521 7 7.27 95200698,672 3 11.26 92 138,040 5 12.15 105 186,835 7 11.81 1112007137,185 5 12.18 94 195,308 7 12.99 107 269,012 10 12.62 112200880,303 3 6.69 77 124,747 5 6.63 88 192,713 7 5.64 92All other vintages2,404,586 85 1.02 63 2,159,827 78 1.36 69 1,922,418 69 1.59 69Estimated mark-to-market LTV ratio: Greater than 100%(1)202,093 7 12.22 122 374,010 13 13.42 128 493,762 18 13.76 131Select combined risk characteristics: Original LTV ratio > 90% and FICO score < 62021,122 1 10.90 103 19,416 1 14.76 113 18,992 1 18.67 115__________*Percentage is less than 0.5%.(1) Second lien mortgage loans held by third parties are not included in the calculation of the estimated mark-to-market LTV ratios.Loan Workout MetricsWe continue to work with our servicers to implement our home retention and foreclosure prevention initiatives. Loan modifications involve changes to the original mortgage terms such as product type, interest rate, amortization term, maturity date and/or unpaid principal balance. For many of our modifications, we will ultimately collect less than the contractual amount due under the original loan. Other resolutions and modifications may result in our receiving the full amount due, or certain installments due, under the loan over a period of time that is longer than the period of time originally provided for under the terms of the loan. Additionally, we currently offer up to twelve months of forbearance for unemployed homeowners as an additional tool to help them avoid foreclosure. With our implementation of HAMP, a modification initiative under the Making Home Affordable Program that is intended to be uniform across servicers, our aim is to help borrowers whose loan is either currently delinquent or is at imminent risk of default. HAMP modifications can include reduced interest rates, term extensions, and/or principal forbearance to bring the monthly payment down to 31% of the borrower’s gross (pre-tax) income. After a servicer determines that the borrower’s hardship is not temporary in nature, we require that servicers first evaluate borrowers for eligibility under HAMP or other workout options before considering foreclosure. By design, not all borrowers facing foreclosure will be eligible for a HAMP modification. As a result, we work with servicers to ensure that borrowers who do not qualify for HAMP or who fail to successfully complete the HAMP required trial period are provided with alternative home retention options or a foreclosure prevention alternative. In addition, we continue to focus on foreclosure alternatives for borrowers who are unable to retain their homes. Foreclosure alternatives may be more appropriate if the borrower has experienced a significant adverse change in financial condition due to events such as unemployment or reduced income, divorce, or unexpected issues like medical bills and is therefore no longer able to make the required mortgage payments. Foreclosure alternatives include short sales, where our servicers work with a borrower to sell their home prior to foreclosure, and deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure, where the borrower voluntarily signs 129over the title to their property to the servicer. These alternatives are designed to reduce our credit losses while helping borrowers avoid foreclosure. We work to obtain the highest price possible for the properties sold in short sales and, in 2013, we received net sales proceeds from our short sale transactions equal to 67% of the loans’ unpaid principal balance, compared with 61% in 2012. The existence of a second lien may limit our ability to provide borrowers with loan workout options, particularly those that are part of our foreclosure prevention efforts; however, we are not required to contact a second lien holder to obtain their approval prior to providing a borrower with a loan modification.Table 45 displays statistics on our single-family loan workouts that were completed, by type, for the periods indicated. These statistics include loan modifications but do not include trial modifications, loans to certain borrowers who have received bankruptcy relief that are classified as TDRs, or repayment or forbearance plans that have been initiated but not completed.Table 45: Statistics on Single-Family Loan Workouts For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Unpaid Principal Balance Number of Loans Unpaid Principal Balance Number of Loans Unpaid Principal Balance Number of Loans (Dollars in millions) Home retention strategies: Modifications $28,801 160,007 $30,640 163,412 $42,793 213,340 Repayment plans and forbearances completed(1) 1,594 12,022 3,298 23,329 5,042 35,318 Total home retention strategies 30,395 172,029 33,938 186,741 47,835 248,658 Foreclosure alternatives: Short sales 9,786 46,570 15,916 73,528 15,412 70,275 Deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure 2,504 15,379 2,590 15,204 1,679 9,558 Total foreclosure alternatives 12,290 61,949 18,506 88,732 17,091 79,833 Total loan workouts $42,685 233,978 $52,444 275,473 $64,926 328,491 Loan workouts as a percentage of single-family guaranty book of business(2) 1.48% 1.33% 1.85% 1.57% 2.29% 1.85%__________(1) Repayment plans reflect only those plans associated with loans that were 60 days or more delinquent. Forbearances reflect loans that were 90 days or more delinquent. (2) Calculated based on loan workouts during the period as a percentage of our single-family guaranty book of business as of the end of the period. The volume of home retention solutions completed in 2013 decreased compared with 2012, primarily due to a decline in the number of delinquent loans in 2013, compared with 2012. During 2013, we initiated approximately 162,000 first time trial modifications, including HAMP and non-HAMP modifications, compared with approximately 184,000 first time trial modifications during 2012. We also initiated other types of workouts, such as repayment plans and forbearances.HAMP guidance directs servicers either to cancel or to convert trial modifications after three or four monthly payments, depending on the borrower’s circumstances. As of December 31, 2013, 58% of our HAMP trial modifications had been converted to permanent HAMP modifications since the inception of the program. The conversion rate for HAMP modifications since June 1, 2010, when servicers became required to perform a full verification of a borrower’s eligibility prior to offering a HAMP trial modification, was 88% as of December 31, 2013. The average length of a trial period for completed HAMP modifications initiated after June 1, 2010 was four months.We continue to work with our servicers to implement our home retention and foreclosure prevention initiatives. Our approach to workouts continues to focus on the large number of borrowers facing financial hardships. Accordingly, the vast majority of loan modifications we have completed since 2009 have been concentrated on deferring or lowering the borrowers’ monthly mortgage payments to allow borrowers to work through their hardships. In March 2013, FHFA announced that we and Freddie Mac would offer a new simplified loan modification solution. Under this streamlined modification initiative, beginning July 1, 2013, our servicers are required to offer loan modifications to eligible borrowers who are at least 90 days delinquent on their mortgages without requiring financial or hardship documentation. Eligible borrowers must demonstrate a 130willingness and ability to pay by making three on-time trial payments, after which the mortgage will be permanently modified.In May 2013, FHFA announced the extension of HAMP to December 31, 2015; our role as program administrator for HAMP has been extended accordingly. FHFA’s announcement was aligned with the extension of the Making Home Affordable Program announced by Treasury and HUD. Previously, the deadline to apply for HAMP eligibility was scheduled for December 31, 2013.The majority of our home retention strategies, including trial modifications and loans to certain borrowers who received bankruptcy relief, are classified as TDRs upon initiation.Table 46 displays activity related to our single-family TDRs for the periods indicated. For more information on the impact of TDRs, see “Note 3, Mortgage Loans.”Table 46: Single-Family Troubled Debt Restructuring Activity(1)(2) For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 (Dollars in millions)Beginning balance, January 1$207,405 $177,484 $155,564New TDRs26,320 54,032 42,088Foreclosures(2)(13,192) (13,752) (14,143)Payoffs(3)(16,054) (6,992) (2,801)Other(4)(3,972) (3,367) (3,224)Ending balance, December 31$200,507 $207,405 $177,484__________(1) Represents the unpaid principal balance of the loans post-modification.(2) Consists of foreclosures, deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure, short sales and third-party sales.(3) Consists of full borrower payoffs and repurchases of loans that were successfully resolved through payment by mortgage sellers and servicers.(4) Primarily includes monthly principal payments.Table 47 displays the percentage of our single-family loan modifications completed during 2012 and 2011 that were current or paid off one year after modification, as well as the percentage of our single-family loan modifications completed during 2011 that were current or paid off two years after modification.Table 47: Percentage of Single-Family Loan Modifications That Were Current or Paid Off at One and Two Years Post-Modification(1) 2012 2011 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1One Year Post-Modification HAMP modifications82% 82% 81% 79% 78% 78% 78% 77%Non-HAMP modifications74 74 72 70 66 68 69 69Total76 76 75 73 71 72 75 74 Two Years Post-Modification HAMP modifications 77% 76% 75% 74%Non-HAMP modifications 67 67 67 67Total 71 71 73 71__________(1) Excludes loans that were classified as subprime ARMs that were modified into fixed-rate mortgages. Modifications do not reflect loans currently in trial modifications. We began changing the structure of our non-HAMP modifications in 2010 to lower borrowers’ monthly mortgage payments to a greater extent, which improved the performance of our non-HAMP modifications overall. In addition, because post-modification performance was greater for our HAMP modifications than for our non-HAMP modifications, we began in September 2010 to include trial periods for our non-HAMP modifications.There is significant uncertainty regarding the ultimate long term success of our current modification efforts. We believe the performance of our workouts will be highly dependent on economic factors, such as unemployment rates, household wealth and income and home prices. Modifications, even those with reduced monthly payments, may also not be sufficient to help borrowers with second liens and other significant non-mortgage debt obligations. FHFA, other agencies of the U.S. government or Congress may ask us to undertake new initiatives to support the housing and mortgage markets should our current modification efforts ultimately not perform in a manner that results in the stabilization of these markets. See “Risk Factors” for a discussion of efforts we may be required or asked to undertake and their potential effect on us.REO ManagementForeclosure and REO activity affect the amount of credit losses we realize in a given period. Table 48 displays our foreclosure activity, by region, for the periods indicated. Regional REO acquisition and charge-off trends generally follow a pattern that is similar to, but lags, that of regional delinquency trends.Table 48: Single-Family Foreclosed Properties For the Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Single-family foreclosed properties (number of properties): Beginning of period inventory of single-family foreclosed properties (REO)(1)105,666 118,528 162,489 Acquisitions by geographic area:(2) Midwest39,113 50,583 45,167 Northeast13,235 12,008 9,858 Southeast57,090 58,411 51,153 Southwest18,923 28,541 44,675 West16,023 24,936 48,843 Total properties acquired through foreclosure(1)144,384 174,479 199,696 Dispositions of REO(146,821) (187,341) (243,657) End of period inventory of single-family foreclosed properties (REO)(1)103,229 105,666 118,528 Carrying value of single-family foreclosed properties (dollars in millions)(3)$10,334 $9,505 $9,692 Single-family foreclosure rate(4)0.82%0.99%1.13%__________(1) Includes acquisitions through deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure. Also includes held for use properties, which are reported in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of “Other assets.”(2) See footnote 9 to “Table 39: Risk Characteristics of Single-Family Conventional Business Volume and Guaranty Book of Business” for states included in each geographic region.(3) Excludes foreclosed property claims receivables, which are reported in our consolidated balance sheets as a component of “Acquired property, net.”(4) Estimated based on the total number of properties acquired through foreclosure or deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure as a percentage of the total number of loans in our single-family guaranty book of business as of the end of each respective period.The continued decrease in the number of our seriously delinquent single-family loans, as well as the slower pace of completed foreclosures we are experiencing due to lengthy foreclosure timelines in a number of states, have resulted in a reduction in the number of REO acquisitions in 2013 compared with 2012 and 2011.Neighborhood stabilization is a core principle in our approach to managing our REO inventory. As a result, we seek to keep properties in good condition and, where appropriate, repair them to make them more marketable. Our goal is to obtain the highest price possible for the properties we sell. We repaired approximately 66,000 properties from our single-family REO inventory at an average cost of approximately $6,700 per property during 2013 and repaired approximately 84,000 properties at an average cost of approximately $6,100 per property during 2012 compared with repairs of approximately 90,000 properties at an average cost of approximately $6,200 per property during 2011.Repairing REO properties increases sales to owner occupants and increases financing options for REO buyers. In addition, we encourage homeownership through our First Look™ marketing period. During this First Look period, owner occupants, 131some nonprofit organizations and public entities may submit offers and purchase properties without competition from investors. Approximately 81,000 of the 147,000 single-family properties we sold in 2013 were purchased by owner occupants, nonprofit organizations or public entities. We currently lease properties to tenants who occupied the properties before we acquired them into our REO inventory and to eligible borrowers who executed a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, which can minimize disruption by providing additional time to find alternate housing, help stabilize local communities, provide us with rental income, and support our compliance with federal and state laws protecting tenants in foreclosed properties. As of December 31, 2013, over 2,000 tenants leased our REO properties.We continue to manage our REO inventory to minimize costs and maximize sales proceeds. However, we are unable to market and sell a large portion of our inventory, primarily due to occupancy and state or local redemption or confirmation periods, which extends the amount of time it takes to bring our properties to a marketable state and eventually dispose of them. This results in higher foreclosed property expenses, which include costs related to maintaining the property and ensuring that the property is vacant.Table 49 displays the current status of our single-family foreclosed property inventory, including the percentage of our inventory that we are unable to market, as of the dates indicated.Table 49: Single-Family Foreclosed Property Status Percent of Single-Family Foreclosed Properties As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Available-for-sale 33% 28% 28%Offer accepted(1) 14 17 17 Appraisal stage(2) 17 10 8 Unable to market: Occupied status(3) 10 14 15 Redemption status(4) 9 11 1