Item 1a. Risk Factors Downturns in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry have adversely affected the operating results and the value of our business. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical, and the value of our business has declined during the “down” portion of these cycles. During recent years, we as well as many others in our industry, experienced significant declines in the pricing of, as well as demand for, products. The market for semiconductors has experienced severe and prolonged downturns. In the future, these downturns may prove to be as, or possibly more, severe. The markets for our products depend on continued demand in the mobile connectivity, automotive, telecommunications, computers/peripherals, defense and aerospace, space/satellite, industrial/commercial and medical markets, and these end-markets have experienced changes in demand that have adversely affected our operating results and financial condition. Concentration of the factories in the semiconductor industry. Relevant portions of the semiconductor industry, and those that serve or supply this industry, tend somewhat to be concentrated in certain areas of the world, and therefore, the semiconductor industry has from time to time been, and may from time to time be adversely affected by natural disasters in various locales, epidemics and health advisories such as those related to Sudden Acute Respiratory Syndrome or Avian Influenza. 10 Table of Contents The semiconductor business is highly competitive and increased competition could reduce our value. The semiconductor industry, including the areas in which we do business, is highly competitive. We expect intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. Pricing pressures may emerge. For instance, competitors may attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. The market for commercial products is characterized by declining selling prices. We anticipate that our average selling prices will decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted with any certainty. The pricing pressure in the semiconductor industry in recent years has been due primarily to the Asian currency crisis, industry-wide excess manufacturing capacity, weak economic growth, the slowdown in capital spending that followed the “dot-com” collapse, the reduction in capital spending by telecom companies and satellite companies, and certain effects of the tragic events of terrorism on September 11, 2001. We compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater resources than we have, and thus may be better able to penetrate new markets or pursue acquisition candidates and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. We have numerous competitors. Some of our current major competitors are Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation, Texas Instruments, Inc., Philips Electronics, ON Semiconductor, L.L.C., Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, Micrel Incorporated, International Rectifier Corporation, Semtech Corporation, Linear Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Skyworks Solutions, Inc., Diodes, Inc., Vishay Intertechnology, Inc. and its subsidiary Siliconix Incorporated. Some of our competitors in developing markets are Triquint Semiconductor, Inc., RF Micro Devices, Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc., Anadigics, Inc. and Skyworks Solutions, Inc. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future or competitive pressures may harm our financial condition, operating results or cash flows. New technologies could result in the development of competing products and a decrease in demand for our products. Our financial performance depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our failure to develop new technologies or to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in product obsolescence, decreased revenues and/or a loss of our market share to competitors. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize much of the semiconductor industry. A fundamental shift in technologies in our product markets could have material adverse effects on our competitive position within the industry. For instance, presently we are challenged to develop new products for use with various alternative wireless LAN standards, such as 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g and 802.11n and combinations thereof. Although this development has already resulted in design wins related to 802.11a, 802.11g, and 802.11n, solutions related to the other standards and the combination of all of the standards are still in development and are in constant change. The success of products using various standards is subject to rapid changes in market preferences and advancements in competing technologies. Failure to protect our proprietary technologies or maintain the right to use certain technologies may negatively affect our ability to compete. We rely heavily on our proprietary technologies. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain protection of certain proprietary technologies used in our principal products. We do not have significant patent protection on many aspects of our technology. Our reliance upon protection of some of our technology as “trade secrets” will not necessarily protect us from the use by other persons of our technology, or their use of technology that is similar or superior to that which is embodied in our trade secrets. Others may be able to independently duplicate or exceed our technology in whole or in part. We may not be successful in maintaining the confidentiality of our technology, dissemination of which could have material adverse effects on our business. In addition, litigation may be necessary to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights. 11 Table of Contents In the instances in which we hold patents or patent licenses, such as with respect to some circuit components for notebook computers and LCD TVs, any patents held by us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under any patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Patents often provide only narrow protection and require public disclosure of information that may otherwise be subject to trade secret protection. Also patents expire and are not renewable. Obtaining or protecting our proprietary rights may require us to defend claims of intellectual property infringement by our competitors. We could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed or are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others with or without our prior awareness of the existence of those third-party rights, if any. If any infringements, real or imagined, happen to exist, arise or are claimed in the future, we may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent owners, discontinue or change our processes or products or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. We may not be successful in such efforts or such licenses may not be available under reasonable terms. Our failure to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or the occurrence of related litigation itself could have material adverse effects on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We are also involved in certain patent litigation to protect our patents and patent rights, which could cause legal costs to increase above normal levels over the next several years. It is not possible to estimate the exact amounts of these costs, but it is possible that these costs could have a negative effect on our future results. Refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. Compound semiconductor products may not successfully compete with silicon-based products. Our choices of technologies for development and future implementation may not reflect future market demand. The production of gallium arsenide (GaAs), indium gallium phosphide (InGaP), silicon germanium (SiGe), indium gallium arsenide phosphide (InGaAsP) or silicon carbide (SiC) integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits, and we believe it will continue to be more costly in the future. The costs differ because of higher costs of raw materials, lower production yields and higher unit costs associated with lower production volumes. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used in process technologies for integrated circuits, and these technologies continue to improve in performance. As a result, we must offer compound semiconductor products that provide vastly superior performance to that of silicon for specific applications in order for them to be competitive with silicon products. If we do not offer compound semiconductor products that provide sufficiently superior performance to offset the cost differential and otherwise successfully compete with silicon-based products, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, other alternatives exist and are being developed, and may have superior performance or lower cost. Production delays related to new compound semiconductors could adversely affect our future results. We utilize process technology to manufacture compound semiconductors such as GaAs, InGaP, SiGe, and InGaAsP primarily to manufacture semiconductor components. We are pursuing this development effort internally as well as with third party foundries. Our efforts sometimes may not result in commercially successful products. Certain of our competitors offer this capability and our customers may purchase our competitors’ products. The third party foundries that we use may delay or fail to deliver technology and products to us. Our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by delay or by our failure to produce these products. We may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand. We may be unsuccessful in our efforts to identify new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner. Products or technologies developed by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue to 12 Table of Contents reduce package sizes, improve manufacturing yields and expand sales. We may not be able to accomplish these goals. Designs that we have introduced recently include primarily integrated circuits and subsystems such as class D audio subsystems for newly-introduced home theatre DVD players supporting surround sound, PDA backlighting subsystems, backlight control and power management solutions for the automotive notebook computer, monitors and the LCD TV market, LED driver solutions and power amplifiers for certain wireless LAN components. Their success will be subject to various risks and uncertainties. We must commit resources to research and development, design, and production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. We sell products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Many of these purchase orders may be revised or cancelled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the research, design and production of products without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Any inability to sell a product after we devote significant resources to it could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins and profits. Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular product’s design and our experience in manufacturing that type of product. We have in the past experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely affected our gross margins and profits. The fabrication of semiconductor products is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous circuits on each wafer to be non-functional, thereby reducing yields. These difficulties include: • Defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto our wafers; • Impurities in the materials used; • Contamination of the manufacturing environment; and • Equipment failure. Because a large portion of our costs of manufacturing is relatively fixed, and average selling prices for our products tend to decline over time, it is critical for us to improve the number of shippable circuits per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and have done so in the past. Moreover, our process technologies have primarily utilized standard silicon semiconductor manufacturing equipment, and production yields of compound integrated circuits have been relatively low compared with silicon circuit devices. We may be unable to continue to improve yields in the future, and we may suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. International operations and sales expose us to material risks. Revenues from foreign markets represent a significant portion of total revenues. We maintain facilities or contracts with entities in Korea, Japan, China, Ireland, Thailand, the Philippines, and Taiwan. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • Legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products; • Trade restrictions; 13 Table of Contents • Transportation delays; • Communication interruptions; • Work stoppages; • Economic and political instability; • Terrorist activities; • Changes in import/export regulations, tariffs and freight rates; • Difficulties in collecting receivables and enforcing contracts generally; and • Currency exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products, assets or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Therefore, the risk of piracy of our technology and products may be greater in those foreign countries. We may experience material adverse effects to our financial condition, operating results and cash flows in the future. Delays in beginning production, implementing production techniques, resolving problems associated with technical equipment malfunctions, or issues related to government or customer qualification of facilities could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and our ability to realize cost savings. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continually being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. We have from time to time experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities or in effecting transitions to new facilities or new manufacturing processes. As a consequence, we have at times experienced delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Although thus far our Capacity Optimization Enhancement Program has proceeded on schedule, our operating results also could be adversely affected by increased costs and expenses related to relocation of production between our facilities if we encounter difficulties or delays or a technical or regulatory nature, including any issues related to government or customer qualification of our other facilities and production lines for the production of high-reliability products. Interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting our materials, parts, equipment or subcontractors may impair our competitive position. Our manufacturing operations, and the outside manufacturing operations, which we use increasingly, depend upon obtaining, in some instances, a governmental qualification of the manufacturing process, and in all instances, adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment, including silicon, mold compounds and lead frames, on a timely basis from third parties. Some of the outside manufacturing operations we use are based in foreign countries. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we generally use materials, parts and equipment available from multiple suppliers, we have a limited number of suppliers for some materials, parts and equipment. While we believe that alternate suppliers for these materials, parts and equipment are available, an interruption could adversely affect our operations. Some of our products are manufactured, assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. Some of these contractors are based in foreign countries. We generally do not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, we may not have direct control over product delivery schedules or product quality. 14 Table of Contents Outside manufacturers generally will have longer lead times for delivery of products as compared with our internal manufacturing, and therefore, when ordering from these suppliers, we will be required to make longer-term estimates of our customers’ current demand for products, and these estimates are difficult to make. Also, due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternate third parties to assemble or test our products. Any product delivery delays in the future could have material adverse effects on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors were disrupted or terminated. We depend on third party subcontractors in Asia for assembly and packaging of a portion of our products. The packaging of our products is performed by a limited group of subcontractors and some of the raw materials included in our products are obtained from a limited group of suppliers. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on sole or limited source suppliers, disruption or termination of any of these sources could occur and such disruptions or terminations could harm our business and operating results. In the event that any of our subcontractors were to experience financial, operational, production or quality assurance difficulties resulting in a reduction or interruption in supply to us, our operating results could suffer at least until alternate qualified subcontractors, if any, were to become available and active. We anticipate that many of our next-generation products may be manufactured by third party subcontractors in Asia, and to the extent that such potential manufacturing relationships develop, they may be with a limited group of subcontractors. Therefore, any disruptions or terminations of manufacturing could harm our business and operating results. Also these subcontractors must be qualified by the U.S. Government or customer for high-reliability processes. Historically DCSC has rarely qualified any foreign manufacturing or assembly lines for reasons of national security; therefore, our ability to move certain manufacturing offshore may be limited or delayed. Fixed costs may reduce operating results if our sales fall below expectations. Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations for future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect our operating results. This challenge could be made even more difficult if lead times between orders and shipments are shortening. Reliance on government contracts for a portion of our sales could have material adverse effects on results of operations. Some of our sales are derived from customers whose principal sales are to the United States Government. If we experience significant reductions or delays in procurements of our products by the United States Government or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Generally, the United States Government and its contractors and subcontractors may terminate their contracts with us for cause or for convenience. We have in the past experienced one termination of a contract due to the termination of the underlying government contracts. All government contracts are also subject to price renegotiation in accordance with U.S. Government Renegotiation Act. By reference to such contracts, all of the purchase orders we receive that are related to government contracts are subject to these possible events. There is no guarantee that we will not experience contract terminations or price renegotiations of government contracts in the future. A significant portion of our sales are to defense and aerospace markets, which are subject to the uncertainties of governmental appropriations and national defense policies and priorities. These sales are derived from direct and indirect business with the U.S. Department of Defense, or DOD, and other U.S. government agencies. From time to time, we have experienced declining defense-related sales, primarily as a result of contract award delays and reduced defense program funding. Defense-related business is anticipated to continue to increase for us; however, the actual timing and amount of an increase is uncertain. In the past, expected 15 Table of Contents increases in defense related spending has occurred at a rate that has been slower than expected. The effects of defense spending increases are difficult to estimate and subject to many sources of delay. Our prospects for additional defense-related sales may be adversely affected in a material manner by numerous events or actions outside our control. There may be unanticipated costs associated with adding to or supplementing our manufacturing capacity. We anticipate that future growth of our business could require increased manufacturing capacity on our part and on the part of certain outside foundries, assembly shops, or testing for some of our integrated circuit products or other products. Expansion activities are subject to a number of risks, including: • Unavailability or late delivery of the advanced, and often customized, equipment used in the production of our specialized products; • Delays in bringing new production equipment on-line; • Delays in supplying satisfactory designs or products to our existing customers; and • Unforeseen environmental, engineering or manufacturing qualification problems relating to existing or new facilities. These and other risks may affect the ultimate cost and timing of any expansion of our capacity. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to attract and retain the services of our executive officers or other key management personnel. We could potentially lose the services of any of our senior management personnel at any time due to possible reasons that could include death, incapacity, calamity, military service, retirement, resignation or competing employers. Our execution of current plans could be adversely affected by such a loss. We may fail to attract and retain qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel required to continue to operate our business successfully. Personnel with the necessary expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with proper skills is intense. Also, attrition in personnel can result from, among other things, changes related to acquisitions, as well as retirement or disability. We may not be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees or be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, particularly at such times in the future as we may need to do so to fill a key position. If we are unable to continue to retain existing executive officers or other key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to manage consolidation of operations effectively could adversely affect our margins and earnings. Our ability to successfully offer and sell our products requires effective planning and management processes. Our Capacity Optimization Enhancement Program, with consolidations and realignments of operations, and expected future growth, may place a significant strain on our management systems and resources, including our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems, procedures and information technology. In addition, we will need to continue to train and manage our workforce worldwide. Any unmet challenges in that regard could negatively affect our results of operations. We have acquired, have current plans to acquire and may acquire other companies and may be unable successfully to integrate such companies with existing operations. We have in the past acquired a number of businesses or companies, and additional product lines and assets. We presently intend to acquire Advanced Power Technology, Inc. We may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies or product lines 16 Table of Contents with existing operations, or if integration is more difficult or more costly than anticipated, we may experience disruptions that could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if the effect of the merger on the Microsemi consolidated group’s financial results is dilutive or is below the market’s expectations. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate or realize any anticipated benefits from the acquired companies, businesses or assets include those associated with: • Unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company; • Conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • Coordinating new product and process development; • Hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • Increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • Difficulties in consolidating facilities and transferring processes and know-how; • Other difficulties in the assimilation of acquired operations, technologies or products; • Diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and • Adverse effects on existing business relationships with customers. Completion of our anticipated merger of Advanced Power Technology, Inc. (“APT” herein) and a subsidiary of Microsemi is subject to the prior satisfaction of several conditions. The merger of APT and our subsidiary is subject to prior approval by the APT stockholders and the satisfaction of several other conditions in the Agreement and Plan of Merger. A material adverse change in circumstances of either Microsemi or APT, or any other failure to satisfy a condition precedent, could result in either party seeking to terminate the transaction. Also, Microsemi and APT have not yet obtained all regulatory clearances, consents and approvals required to complete the merger. Any difficulties satisfying any conditions may potentially delay the merger, make the merger more costly to the parties or preclude the parties from completing the merger. Accounting charges resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect Microsemi’s financial results following the merger of APT with Microsemi’s subsidiary. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, Microsemi will account for the merger of APT and Microsemi’s subsidiary using the purchase method of accounting. Microsemi will allocate the total purchase price to APT’s net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets, and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the merger, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Later, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, Microsemi may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Also, the book value of APT’s inventory at the close of the merger will be adjusted to fair value. As a result, when this product is sold the gross margin on these sales may be significantly lower than historical margins. The additional accounting charges could adversely affect Microsemi’s financial results, including earnings (loss) per common share, which could cause the market price of Microsemi’s common stock to decline. We plan to engage in an acquisition and may engage in future acquisitions that dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders and cause us to incur debt or to assume contingent liabilities. As a part of our business strategy, we expect to review acquisition prospects that would complement our current product offerings, enhance our design capability or offer other growth opportunities. We may acquire businesses, products or technologies in the future. In the event of future acquisitions, we could: • Use a significant portion of our available cash; 17 Table of Contents • Issue equity securities, which would dilute current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • Incur substantial debt; • Incur or assume contingent liabilities, known or unknown; • Incur impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangibles; and • Incur large, immediate accounting write-offs. Such actions by us could impact our operating results and/or the price of our common stock potentially. Other than our anticipated merger with APT and a subsidiary of Microsemi, we have no current binding agreements or definite plans to make any particular material acquisitions. We have closed, combined, sold or disposed of certain subsidiaries or divisions, which in the past has reduced our sales volume and resulted in restructuring costs. In October 2003, we announced the consolidation of the manufacturing operations of Microsemi Corp. – Santa Ana, of Santa Ana, California (“Santa Ana”) into some of our other facilities. Santa Ana, whose manufacturing represented approximately 20% and 13% of our annual revenues in fiscal years 2003 and 2004, respectively, had approximately 380 employees and occupied 123,000 square feet. The consolidation of Santa Ana has had minimal adverse impact on revenues. In April 2005, we announced the consolidation of the high-reliability products operations of Microsemi Corp. – Colorado of Bloomfield, Colorado into some of our other facilities and the closure of the manufacturing operations of Microsemi Corp. – Ireland of Ennis, Ireland. Colorado represents approximately 9% of our annual revenues, has approximately 165 employees and occupies a 130,000 square foot owned facility. Ireland represents approximately 2% of our annual revenues, has approximately 70 manufacturing employees and occupies a 62,500 square foot owned facility. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, we recorded estimated severance payments of $1.1 million and $1.4 million for Colorado and Ireland, respectively. We may make further specific determinations to consolidate, close or sell additional facilities, which could be announced at any time. Possible adverse consequences resulting from or related to such announcement may include various accounting charges such as for idle capacity, an inventory buildup in preparation for the transition of manufacturing, disposition costs, severance costs, impairments of goodwill and possibly an immediate loss of revenues, and other items in addition to normal or attendant risks and uncertainties. We may be unsuccessful in any of our current or future efforts to consolidate our business into a fewer number of facilities. Our plans to minimize or eliminate any loss of revenues during consolidation may not be achieved. We have major technical challenges in regard to transferring component manufacturing between locations. Before a transfer of manufacturing, we must be finished qualifying the new facility appropriately with the U.S. governmental agencies or the customers concerned. While we plan generally to retain all of our revenues and income of those operations by transferring the manufacturing elsewhere within Microsemi’s subsidiaries, our plans may change at any time based on reassessment of the alternatives and consequences. While we hope to benefit overall from increased gross margins and increased capacity utilization rates at remaining operations, the remaining operations will need to bear the corporate administrative and overhead costs, which are charges to income that had been allocated to the discontinued business units. Moreover, delays in effecting our consolidations could result in greater than anticipated costs incurred to achieve the hoped for longer-range savings. Our products may be found to be defective or hazardous and we may not have sufficient liability insurance. One or more of our products may be found to be defective or to contain, without the customer’s knowledge, certain prohibited hazardous chemicals after we have already shipped the products in volume, requiring a product 18 Table of Contents replacement or recall. We may be subject to product returns that could impose substantial costs and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our aerospace (including aircraft), defense, medical and satellite businesses in particular expose us to potential liability risks that are inherent in the manufacturing and marketing of high reliability electronic components for critical applications. Production of many of these products is sensitive to minute impurities, which can be introduced inadvertently in manufacture. Any production mistakes can result in large and unanticipated product returns, product liability and warranty liability. New environmental regulations have imposed on us a new burden of determining the chemical contents of supplies we buy and use and to inform in turn our customers about our each of our finished goods’ chemical contents. Mistakes in this information gathering process could have material adverse effects on us, and the management and execution of this process is very challenging. We may be subject to product liability claims with respect to our products. Our product liability insurance coverage may be insufficient to pay all such claims. Product liability insurance may become too costly for us or may become unavailable to us in the future. We may not have sufficient resources to satisfy any product liability claims not covered by insurance which would materially and adversely affect our financial position. Environmental liabilities could adversely impact our financial position. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor manufacturing processes or in our finished goods. Under new environmental regulations, we will be responsible to determine whether certain toxic metals or certain other toxic chemicals are present in any given components we purchase and in each given product we sell. These environmental regulations have required us to expend a portion of our resources and capital on relevant compliance programs. In addition, under other laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our current or former properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Also, we may be subject to additional common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations, old or new could subject us to significant liabilities and could have material adverse effects on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under federal, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from or within or through property. These risks may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us under environmental laws and regulations. In Broomfield, Colorado, the owner of a property located adjacent to a manufacturing facility owned by a subsidiary of ours had notified the subsidiary and other parties, of a claim that contaminants migrated to his property, thereby diminishing its value. In August 1995, the subsidiary, together with Coors Porcelain Company, FMC Corporation and Siemens Microelectronics, Inc. (former owners of the manufacturing facility), agreed to settle the claim and to indemnify the owner of the adjacent property for remediation costs. Although TCE and other contaminants previously used by former owners at the facility are present in soil and groundwater on the subsidiary’s property, we vigorously contest any assertion that the subsidiary caused the contamination. In November 1998, we signed an agreement with the three former owners of this facility whereby they have 1) reimbursed us for $530,000 of past costs, 2) assumed responsibility for 90% of all future clean-up costs, and 3) promised to indemnify and protect us against any and all third-party claims relating to the contamination of the 19 Table of Contents facility. An Integrated Corrective Action Plan was submitted to the State of Colorado. Sampling and management plans were prepared for the Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment. State and local agencies in Colorado are reviewing current data and considering study and cleanup options. The most recent forecast estimated that the total project cost, up to the year 2020, would be approximately $5,300,000; accordingly, we recorded a one-time charge of $530,000 for this project in fiscal year 2003. There has not been any significant development since September 28, 2003. Litigation could adversely impact our financial position. We are involved in various pending litigation matters, arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of our business, including from time to time litigation relating to commercial transactions, contracts, and environmental matters. In the opinion of management, the final outcome of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Some of our facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines. Our headquarters, our major operating facilities, and certain other critical business operations are located near known earthquake fault lines. We presently do not have earthquake insurance. We could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of Microsemi that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their shares. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make the acquisition more difficult by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. These provisions include: • The Shareholder Rights Plan, which provides that an acquisition of 20% or more of the outstanding shares without our Board’s approval or ratification results in the exercisability of the Right accompanying each share of Common Stock, thereby entitling the holder to purchase 1/4,000th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for $100, resulting in dilution to the acquiror because each Right under some circumstances entitles the holder upon exercise to receive securities or assets valued at $200 and under other circumstances entitles the holder to ten (10) times the amount of any dividends or distributions on the common stock; • Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a merger with a 15%-or-greater stockholder, such as a party that has completed a successful tender offer, without board approval until three years after that party became a 15%-or-greater stockholder; and • The authorization in the certificate of incorporation of undesignated preferred stock, which could be issued without stockholder approval in a manner designed to prevent or discourage a takeover or in a way that may dilute an investment in the Common Stock. In connection with our Shareholder Rights Plan, each share of Common Stock, par value $0.20, also entitles the holder to one redeemable and cancellable Right (not presently exercisable), as adjusted from time to time, to a given fraction of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, at a given exercise price, as adjusted from time to time under the terms and conditions as set forth in a Shareholder Rights Agreement. The existence of the Rights may make more difficult or impracticable for hostile change of control of us, which therefore may affect the anticipated return on an investor’s investment in the Common Stock. 20 Table of Contents We may have increasing difficulty to attract and to continue retaining qualified outside Board members. The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them in connection with their positions with publicly-held companies. Outside directors are becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors’ and officers’ liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending shareholder claims. Directors and officers liability insurance has recently become much more expensive and difficult to obtain than it had been. Concurrently, the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market have imposed higher independence standards and certain special requirements on directors of public companies. Accordingly, it has become increasingly difficult to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on our Board. The volatility of our stock price could affect the value of an investment in our stock and our future financial position. The market price of our stock has fluctuated widely. Between September 26, 2004 and October 2, 2005, the closing sale price of our common stock ranged between a low of $13.56 and a high of $25.54, experiencing greater volatility over that time than most of the market did. The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. We may not be able to sustain or increase the value of our common stock. Declines in the market price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to retain personnel with stock incentives, to acquire businesses or assets in exchange for stock and/or to conduct future financing activities with or involving our common stock. We may not make the sales that are suggested by our order rates, backlog or book-to-bill ratio, and our book-to-bill ratio may be affected by product mix. Prospective investors should not place undue reliance on our book-to-bill ratios or changes in book-to-bill ratios. We determine bookings based on orders that are scheduled for delivery within 12 months. However, lead times for the release of purchase orders depend upon the scheduling practices of individual customers, and delivery times of new or non-standard products can be affected by scheduling factors and other manufacturing considerations. The rate of booking new orders can vary significantly from month to month. Customers frequently change their delivery schedules or cancel orders. For these reasons, our book-to-bill ratio may not be an indication of future sales. The percentage of our business represented by space/satellite and defense products may decline. If and when this occurs, we anticipate that our book-to-bill ratio will decline. On the other hand, the percentage of our business represented by space/satellite and defense products may increase. If and when this occurs, we anticipate that our book-to-bill ratio will increase disproportionately to our total expected revenues. Our space/satellite business is characterized by long lead times; however, our other end markets tend to place orders with short lead times. There may be some potential effects of system outages. Risks are presented by electrical or telecommunications outages, computer hacking or other general system failure. We rely heavily on our internal information and communications systems and on systems or support services from third parties to manage our operations efficiently and effectively. Any of these are subject to failure. System-wide or local failures that affect our information processing could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, insurance coverage does not generally protect from normal wear and tear, which can affect system performance. Any applicable insurance coverage for an occurrence could prove to be inadequate. Coverage may be or become unavailable or inapplicable to any risks then prevalent. We are upgrading and integrating, and have plans to upgrade and integrate further our enterprise information systems, and these efforts may cause additional strains on personnel 21 Table of Contents and system resources or may result in potential system outages. The integration efforts generally concern our goal of strengthening or documenting our internal controls for the purposes contemplated in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our accounting policies and estimates have a material effect on the financial results we report. Significant accounting policies and estimates have material effects on our calculations and estimations of amounts in our financial statements. Our operating results and balance sheets may be adversely affected either to the extent that actual results prove to be adversely different from previous accounting estimates or to the extent that accounting estimates are revised adversely. We base our critical accounting policies, including our policies regarding revenue recognition, reserves for returns, rebates, and bad debt and inventory valuation, on various estimates and subjective judgments that we may make from time to time. The judgments made can significantly affect net income and our balance sheets. We are required to make significant judgments concerning inventory, and whether it becomes obsolete or excess, and concerning impairments of long-lived assets and also of goodwill. Our judgments, estimates and assumptions are subject to change at any time. In addition, our accounting policies may change at any time as a result of changes in GAAP as it applies to us or changes in other circumstances affecting us. Changes in accounting policy have affected and could further affect, in each case materially and adversely, our results of operations or financial position. Item 1b. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 