Item 1A. Risk Factors Anheuser-Busch makes forward-looking statements in its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other oral or written communications. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to be materially different from those indicated (both favorably and unfavorably). These risks and uncertainties include (but are not limited to) the risks described below. Anheuser-Busch undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Increased competitive pressures may reduce revenues or increase costs. Anheuser-Busch faces competition in each business from alternative providers of the products we offer. For example: The U.S. beer business competes with other domestic and international brewers as well as with producers of other types of alcohol beverages; The international beer business competes with a mix of national, regional, local and international brewers, depending on the country; 10 The packaging business competes with other producers of beverage cans and beverage lids as well as producers of other types of beverage containers; The family entertainment business competes with the operators of other theme and amusement parks, public zoos, public parks and other family events and attractions. Competition may divert consumers and customers from the Anheuser-Busch products. In order to respond to or anticipate competition, Anheuser-Busch may need to change the prices of products or incur additional costs to introduce new packages or products. Innovation faces inherent risks, and the new products we introduce may not be successful. Changes in consumer tastes and preferences could reduce demand for the Anheuser-Busch products. The success of Anheuser-Busch depends on satisfying consumer tastes and preferences with our beverage products, our container products and our theme park offerings. Consumer preferences can change in unpredictable ways, and consumers may begin to prefer the products of competitors or may generally reduce their demand for products in the category. Failure by Anheuser-Busch to anticipate changes in consumer preferences might affect financial results and loss in market share. In order to respond to or anticipate changes in consumer preferences, Anheuser-Busch may need to increase and enhance the marketing of existing products, change the pricing of existing products or introduce new products and services. Each response might affect financial results. Increases in raw material and commodity prices could increase operating costs. The Anheuser-Busch malt beverage products require various agricultural products. Anheuser-Busch also uses aluminum cansheet to manufacture beverage cans and lids, glass bottles as containers for malt beverages and natural gas, fuel oil and coal as primary fuel materials. Raw materials and commodities are subject to price volatility caused by market fluctuations, including the quality and availability of supply, weather, currency fluctuations, trade agreements among producing and consuming nations, consumer demand and changes in governmental programs. To some extent, derivative financial instruments and supply agreements can protect against increases in materials and commodities costs, but they do not provide complete protection over the longer term. Anheuser-Busch might be able to raise prices to offset increases in costs, but price increases can reduce sales volumes. If Anheuser-Busch is not able to increase prices to offset co st increases or if price increases reduce sales volumes, financial results would be adversely affected. An inability to reduce costs could affect profitability. Anheuser-Busch’s future success and earnings growth depend in part on its ability to be efficient in producing, advertising and selling of our products and services. Anheuser-Busch has a number of initiatives to improve operational efficiency. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through these initiatives could adversely affect profitability and the ability of Anheuser-Busch to achieve its financial goals. Anheuser-Busch is subject to risks associated with international operations. Anheuser-Busch has significant international operations and the profitable expansion of the international business is a long term goal. Anheuser-Busch has equity investments in brewers in China and Mexico, owns breweries in China and the United Kingdom and sells malt beverages globally. Although Anheuser-Busch does not significantly compete in the Mexican beer market, a significant change in Modelo’s business could have a material effect on the Company’s reported net income and earnings per share. The international operations are subject to the inherent risks of international business, such as: Political and economic changes; Changes in the relations between the United States and foreign countries; Actions of foreign or United States governmental authority affecting trade and foreign investment; 11 Regulations on repatriation of funds; Foreign currency exchange restrictions; Interpretation and application of local laws and regulations; Enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights; Local labor conditions and regulations. An increase in beer excise taxes or other taxes could adversely affect financial results. Anheuser-Busch is affected by federal, foreign, state and local income and other taxes, particularly beer excise taxes which are levied both by the federal, foreign and state governments. Proposals are made from time to time to increase beer excise taxes in a variety of states. In addition, Anheuser-Busch is subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service and other foreign, state and local taxing authorities. An increase in taxes or an adverse determination by a taxing authority could adversely affect financial results. The consolidation of retailers may adversely affect Anheuser-Busch. The retail industry in the United States and in other countries in which Anheuser-Busch operates continues to consolidate. Large retailers may seek to improve profitability and sales by reducing the prices or increasing the promotional activities for Anheuser-Busch products. Although retailers purchase products not from Anheuser-Busch, but from its wholesalers (including in a limited number of markets, the Anheuser-Busch wholesaler operations), the efforts of retailers could result in reduced profitability for the beer industry as a whole and indirectly adversely affect our financial results. Governmental regulation could affect our operations or increase costs. All of the Anheuser-Busch businesses are subject to governmental regulation. The Anheuser-Busch U.S. beer business and its wholesalers are especially subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Permits, licenses and approvals necessary to the U.S. beer business are required from the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau of the United States Treasury Department, state alcohol beverage regulatory agencies in the states in which we sell or produce products and local authorities in some jurisdictions in which we sell products. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly. Anheuser-Busch may be subject to claims that we have not complied with existing laws and regulations, which could result in fines and penalties. Anheuser-Busch is routinely subject to new or modified laws and regulations with which we must comply in order to avoid fines and other penalties and which may affect operations. From time to time, new laws and regulations are proposed that would affect operations, affect the distribution of the Anheuser-Busch products by its wholesalers, or increase expenses. Anheuser-Busch is subject to litigation. Recently, the advertising practices of Anheuser-Busch and many other brewers and distilled spirits manufacturers have been subject to litigation which has now ended. Anheuser-Busch is now, and may in the future be, a party to other legal proceedings and claims, and significant damages may be asserted against us. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, it is possible that Anheuser-Busch might incur liabilities as a consequence of the proceedings and claims brought against it. Anheuser-Busch may make acquisitions, investments and joint venture and similar arrangements, which are risky. Anheuser-Busch has in the past and may in the future desire to make acquisitions of, investments in, and joint venture and similar arrangements with other companies to increase shareholder value. These transactions cannot occur unless we can identify suitable candidates and agree on terms with them. After completion of a transaction, we may be required to integrate acquired businesses or operations into our existing operations. An 12inability to successfully complete transactions or successfully integrate acquired operations may affect our profitability. The loss of an important supplier could adversely affect operations and financial results. For certain packaging supplies, raw materials and commodities, we rely on a small number of important suppliers. If these suppliers became unable to continue to meet our requirements, and we could not develop alternative sources of supply, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Anheuser-Busch relies on its wholesalers. In the United States, Anheuser-Busch sells substantially all of its beer to independent wholesalers for distribution to retailers and ultimately consumers. In 2007, Anheuser-Busch was appointed as the United States importer for a number of the premium European brands of InBev. Many of the wholesalers of these brands have not traditionally been wholesalers for Anheuser-Busch. As independent companies, wholesalers make their own business decisions that may not always align themselves with our interests. If the Anheuser-Busch wholesalers do not effectively distribute our products, our financial results could be adversely affected. If Anheuser-Busch is unable to maintain the image and reputation of its products and services, operations and financial results may suffer. Anheuser-Busch’s success depends on our ability to maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products and to develop a favorable image and reputation for new products. The image and reputation of our products may be reduced in the future; concerns about product quality, even when unfounded, could tarnish the image and reputation of our products. Restoring the image and reputation of our products may be costly and may not be possible. The Anheuser-Busch businesses are subject to a number of other miscellaneous risks that may adversely affect financial results. Other miscellaneous risks include: Changes in global and domestic economies, including slow growth rate, rise in interest rates, changes in currency exchange rates, rise in cost of commodities, inflation, unemployment and weakening consumer confidence which could reduce demand for the Anheuser-Busch products, affect the businesses of the international brewers in which we have made investments or increase costs, including borrowing costs; Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, which may result in shortages of raw materials and commodities and reduction in tourism and attendance at the Anheuser-Busch theme parks; Unusual weather conditions which could affect domestic beer consumption, attendance at the Anheuser-Busch theme parks, raw material availability, or natural gas prices; Continued threat of terrorist acts and war, which may result in heightened security and higher costs for imports and exports, reduced tourism and attendance at the Anheuser-Busch theme parks and contraction of the United States and worldwide economies; Changes in the Anheuser-Busch share price which could affect the share repurchase program. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 