Risk Factors This section identifies specific risks that should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. The risks described in “Risks Relating to Our Business” are specific to us and our business, while those described in “Risks Relating to Our Industry” relate to the industry in which we operate. Refer to “MD&A—Risk Management” for a more detailed description of the primary risks to our business and how we seek to manage those risks. Any of these factors could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth, and could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results or the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. However, these are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. 48 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS The future of our company following termination of the conservatorship and the timing of the conservatorship’s end are uncertain. We do not know when or how the conservatorship will be terminated or what changes to our business structure will be made during or following the termination of the conservatorship. We do not know whether we will continue to exist in the same or a similar form after conservatorship is terminated or whether the conservatorship will end in receivership or in some other manner. The Obama Administration’s June 2009 white paper on financial regulatory reform stated that Treasury and HUD, in consultation with other government agencies, would engage in a wide-ranging initiative to develop recommendations on the future of the GSEs. On December 24, 2009, in announcing amendments to its senior preferred stock purchase agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Treasury announced that it expected to provide a preliminary report about longer term reform of the federal government’s role in the housing market around the time President Obama released his fiscal 2011 budget. Treasury observed, “Recent announcements on the tightening of underwriting standards by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and FHA, demonstrate a commitment to prudent housing finance policy that enables a transition to an environment where the private market is able to provide a larger source of mortgage finance.” In February 2010, the Administration stated that it continues to monitor the situation of the GSEs, and indicated that it would release a statement on the GSEs “in the very near future.” Since June 2009, Congressional committees and subcommittees have held hearings to discuss the present condition and future status of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and at least one legislative proposal addressing the future status of the GSEs has been offered. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. See “Business—GSE Reform and Pending Legislation” for more information about the white paper’s mention of options for reform of the GSEs and Congressional hearings about our present condition and future status. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of Fannie Mae, including whether we will continue to exist in our current form after conservatorship is terminated. The options for reform of the GSEs include options that would result in a substantial change to our business structure or in Fannie Mae’s liquidation or dissolution. We expect FHFA to request additional funds from Treasury on our behalf to ensure we maintain a positive net worth and avoid mandatory receivership. The dividends and commitment fees we must pay or that accrue on Treasury’s investments are substantial and are expected to increase, and we likely will not be able to fund them through net income. FHFA must place us into receivership if the Director of FHFA makes a written determination that our assets are less than our obligations (which we refer to as a net worth deficit) or if we have not been paying our debts, in either case, for a period of 60 days. We have had a net worth deficit as of the end of each of the last five fiscal quarters, including as of December 31, 2009. Treasury provided us with funds under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement to cure the net worth deficits in prior periods before the end of the 60-day period, and we expect Treasury to do the same with respect to the December 31, 2009 deficit. When Treasury provides the additional $15.3 billion FHFA has already requested on our behalf, the aggregate liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock will be $76.2 billion, and will require an annualized dividend of $7.6 billion. The prospective $7.6 billion annual dividend obligation exceeds our reported annual net income for all but one of the last eight years. Our ability to maintain a positive net worth has been and continues to be adversely affected by market conditions. To the extent we have a negative net worth as of the end of future fiscal quarters, we expect that FHFA will request additional funds from Treasury under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement. Further funds from Treasury under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement will substantially increase the liquidation preference of and the dividends we owe on the senior preferred stock and, therefore, we may need additional funds from Treasury in order to meet our dividend obligation. In addition, beginning in 2011, the senior preferred stock purchase agreement requires that we pay a quarterly commitment fee to Treasury, unless Treasury waives this fee. The quarterly commitment fee amounts have not yet been determined. The aggregate liquidation preference and dividend obligations will also increase by the 49 Table of Contents amount of any required dividend we fail to pay in cash and by any required quarterly commitment fee that we fail to pay. The substantial dividend obligations and potentially substantial quarterly commitment fees, coupled with our effective inability to pay down draws under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, will continue to strain our financial resources and have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth, both in the short and long term. Our regulator is authorized or required to place us into receivership under specified conditions, which would result in the liquidation of our assets. Amounts recovered from the liquidation may be insufficient to cover our obligations or liquidation preferences on our preferred stock, or provide any proceeds to common shareholders. FHFA must place us into receivership if the Director of FHFA makes a written determination that our assets are less than our obligations or if we have not been paying our debts, in either case, for a period of 60 days. Because of the weak economy and conditions in the housing market, we will continue to need funding from Treasury to avoid a trigger of mandatory receivership. In addition, we could be put into receivership at the discretion of the Director of FHFA at any time for other reasons, including conditions that FHFA has already asserted existed at the time the Director of FHFA placed us into conservatorship. These conditions include: a substantial dissipation of assets or earnings due to unsafe or unsound practices; the existence of an unsafe or unsound condition to transact business; an inability to meet our obligations in the ordinary course of business; a weakening of our condition due to unsafe or unsound practices or conditions; critical undercapitalization; the likelihood of losses that will deplete substantially all of our capital; or by consent. A receivership would terminate the conservatorship. In addition to the powers FHFA has as conservator, the appointment of FHFA as our receiver would terminate all rights and claims that our shareholders and creditors may have against our assets or under our charter arising as a result of their status as shareholders or creditors, except for their right to payment, resolution or other satisfaction of their claims as permitted under the GSE Act. Unlike a conservatorship, the purpose of which is to conserve our assets and return us to a sound and solvent condition, the purpose of a receivership is to liquidate our assets and resolve claims against us. In the event of a liquidation of our assets, only after paying the secured and unsecured claims against the company (including repaying all outstanding debt obligations), the administrative expenses of the receiver and the liquidation preference of the senior preferred stock, would any liquidation proceeds be available to repay the liquidation preference on any other series of preferred stock. Finally, only after the liquidation preference on all series of preferred stock is repaid would any liquidation proceeds be available for distribution to the holders of our common stock. It is highly uncertain that there would be sufficient proceeds to repay the liquidation preference of any series of our preferred stock or to make any distribution to the holders of our common stock. To the extent we are placed into receivership and do not or cannot fulfill our guaranty to the holders of our Fannie Mae MBS, the MBS holders could become unsecured creditors of ours with respect to claims made under our guaranty. We have experienced substantial deterioration in the credit performance of mortgage loans that we own or that back our guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS, which we expect to continue and result in additional credit-related expenses. We are exposed to mortgage credit risk relating to the mortgage loans that we hold in our investment portfolio and the mortgage loans that back our guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS. When borrowers fail to make required payments of principal and interest on their mortgage loans, we are exposed to the risk of credit losses and credit-related expenses. Conditions in the housing and financial markets worsened dramatically during 2008 and remained stressed in 2009 and early 2010, contributing to a deterioration in the credit performance of our book of business, including higher serious delinquency rates, default rates and average loan loss severity on the mortgage loans we hold or that back our guaranteed Fannie Mae MBS, as well as a substantial increase in our inventory of foreclosed properties. Increases in delinquencies, default rates and loss severity cause us to experience higher credit-related expenses. The credit performance of our book of business has also been negatively affected by the extent and duration of the decline in home prices and high unemployment. These deteriorating credit performance trends have been notable in certain of our higher risk loan categories, states and vintages. In 50 Table of Contents addition, home price declines, adverse market conditions, and continuing high levels of unemployment have also increasingly affected the credit performance of our broader book of business. Further, as social acceptability of defaulting on a mortgage increases, more borrowers may default on their mortgages because they owe more than their houses are worth. We present detailed information about the risk characteristics of our conventional single-family guaranty book of business in “MD&A—Risk Management—Credit Risk Management—Mortgage Credit Risk Management,” and we present detailed information on our 2009 credit-related expenses, credit losses and results of operations in “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations.” Adverse credit performance trends may continue, particularly if we experience further national and regional declines in home prices, weak economic conditions and high unemployment. The credit losses we experience in future periods are likely to be larger, and perhaps substantially larger, than our current combined loss reserves. As a result, we likely will experience credit losses for which we have not yet provisioned. In accordance with GAAP, our combined loss reserves, as reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, do not reflect our estimate of the future credit losses inherent in our existing guaranty book of business. Rather, they reflect only the probable losses that we believe we have already incurred as of the balance sheet date. Accordingly, although we believe that our credit losses will increase in the future due to the weak housing and mortgage markets, and possibly also, in the near term, due to the costs of our activities under various programs designed to keep borrowers in their homes, high unemployment and other negative trends, we are not permitted under GAAP to reflect these future trends in our loss reserve calculations. Because of these negative trends, there is significant uncertainty regarding the full extent of our future credit losses but they likely will exceed, perhaps substantially, our current combined loss reserves. The credit losses we experience in future periods will adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We expect to experience further losses and write-downs relating to our investment securities. We experienced significant fair value losses and other-than-temporary impairment write-downs relating to our investment securities in 2008 and recorded significant other-than-temporary impairment write-downs of some of our available-for-sale securities in 2009. A substantial portion of these fair value losses and write-downs related to our investments in private-label mortgage-related securities backed by Alt-A and subprime mortgage loans and, in the case of fair value losses, our investments in commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) due to the decline in home prices and the weak economy. We continue to expect to experience additional other-than-temporary impairment write-downs of our investments in private-label mortgage-related securities, including those that continue to be AAA-rated. See “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheet Analysis—Mortgage-Related Securities—Investments in Private-Label Mortgage-Related Securities” for detailed information on our investments in private-label mortgage-related securities backed by Alt-A and subprime mortgage loans. We also have incurred significant losses relating to the non-mortgage investment securities in our cash and other investments portfolio, primarily as a result of a substantial decline in the market value of these assets due to the financial market crisis. The fair value of the investment securities we hold may be further adversely affected by deterioration in the housing market and economy, including continued high unemployment, additional ratings downgrades or other events. To the extent that the market for our securities remains illiquid, we are required to use a greater amount of management judgment to value the securities we own in our investment portfolio. Further, if we were to sell any of these securities, the price we ultimately would realize could be materially lower than the estimated fair value at which we carry these securities on our balance sheet. Any of the above factors could require us to record additional write-downs in the value of our investment portfolio, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. 51 Table of Contents Our business activities are significantly restricted by the conservatorship and the senior preferred stock purchase agreement. We are currently under the control of our conservator, FHFA, and we do not know when or how the conservatorship will be terminated. Under the GSE Act, FHFA can direct us to enter into contracts or enter into contracts on our behalf. Further, FHFA, as conservator, generally has the power to transfer or sell any of our assets or liabilities and may do so without the approval, assignment or consent of any party. In addition, our directors do not have any duties to any person or entity except to the conservator. Accordingly, our directors are not obligated to consider the interests of the company, the holders of our equity or debt securities or the holders of Fannie Mae MBS in making or approving a decision unless specifically directed to do so by the conservator. The conservator said in February 2010 that while we are in conservatorship, we will be limited to continuing our existing core business activities and taking actions necessary to advance the goals of the conservatorship. The senior preferred stock purchase agreement with Treasury includes a number of covenants that significantly restrict our business activities. We cannot, without the prior written consent of Treasury: pay dividends (except on the senior preferred stock); sell, issue, purchase or redeem Fannie Mae equity securities; sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of assets in specified situations; engage in transactions with affiliates other than on arm’s-length terms or in the ordinary course of business; issue subordinated debt; or incur indebtedness that would result in our aggregate indebtedness exceeding 120% of the amount of mortgage assets we are allowed to own. In deciding whether or not to consent to any request for approval it receives from us under the agreement, Treasury has the right to withhold its consent for any reason and is not required by the agreement to consider any particular factors, including whether or not management believes that the transaction would benefit the company. Pursuant to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, the maximum allowable amount of mortgage assets we may own on December 31, 2010 is $810 billion. On December 31, 2011, and each December 31 thereafter, our mortgage assets may not exceed 90% of the maximum allowable amount that we were permitted to own as of December 31 of the immediately preceding calendar year. The maximum allowable amount is reduced annually until it reaches $250 billion. This limit on the amount of mortgage assets we are permitted to hold could constrain the amount of delinquent loans we purchase from single-family MBS trusts. Please see “Business—Mortgage Securitizations—Purchases of Loans from our MBS Trusts” for more information about these planned purchases. We discuss the powers of the conservator, the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, and their impact on us and shareholders in “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements.” These factors may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. The conservatorship and investment by Treasury have had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our common and preferred shareholders. No voting rights during conservatorship. The rights and powers of our shareholders are suspended during the conservatorship. The conservatorship has no specified termination date. During the conservatorship, our common shareholders do not have the ability to elect directors or to vote on other matters unless the conservator delegates this authority to them. Dividends to common and preferred shareholders, other than to Treasury, have been eliminated. Under the terms of the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, dividends may not be paid to common or preferred shareholders (other than the senior preferred stock) without the consent of Treasury, regardless of whether we are in conservatorship. Liquidation preference of senior preferred stock will increase, likely substantially. The senior preferred stock ranks prior to our common stock and all other series of our preferred stock, as well as any capital stock we issue in the future, as to both dividends and distributions upon liquidation. Accordingly, if we are liquidated, the senior preferred stock is entitled to its then-current liquidation preference, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends, before any distribution is made to the holders of our common stock or other preferred stock. As of December 31, 2009, the liquidation preference on the senior preferred stock was $60.9 billion; however, it will increase to $76.2 billion when Treasury provides the additional $15.3 billion FHFA has already requested on 52 Table of Contents our behalf. The liquidation preference could increase substantially as we draw on Treasury’s funding commitment, if we do not pay dividends owed on the senior preferred stock or if we do not pay the quarterly commitment fee under the senior preferred stock purchase agreement. If we are liquidated, it is highly uncertain that there would be sufficient funds remaining after payment of amounts to our creditors and to Treasury as holder of the senior preferred stock to make any distribution to holders of our common stock and other preferred stock. Exercise of the Treasury warrant would substantially dilute investment of current shareholders. If Treasury exercises its warrant to purchase shares of our common stock equal to 79.9% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on a fully diluted basis, the ownership interest in the company of our then existing common shareholders will be substantially diluted, and we would thereafter have a controlling shareholder. No longer managed for the benefit of shareholders. Because we are in conservatorship, we are no longer managed with a strategy to maximize shareholder returns. We do not know when or how the conservatorship will be terminated, and if or when the rights and powers of our shareholders, including the voting powers of our common shareholders, will be restored. Moreover, even if the conservatorship is terminated, by their terms, we remain subject to the senior preferred stock purchase agreement, senior preferred stock and warrant, which can only be cancelled or modified by mutual consent of Treasury and the conservator. For a description of additional restrictions on and risks to our shareholders, see “Business—Conservatorship and Treasury Agreements.” Efforts we are required or asked to take by FHFA, other government agencies or Congress in pursuit of providing liquidity, stability and affordability to the mortgage market and providing assistance to struggling homeowners, or in pursuit of other goals, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Prior to the conservatorship, our business was managed with a strategy to maximize shareholder returns, while fulfilling our mission. In this time of economic uncertainty, our conservator has directed us to focus primarily on fulfilling our mission of providing liquidity, stability and affordability to the mortgage market and minimizing our credit losses from delinquent mortgages, and providing assistance to struggling homeowners to help them remain in their homes. As a result, we may continue to take a variety of actions designed to address this focus that could adversely affect our economic returns, possibly significantly, such as: reducing our guaranty fees and modifying loans to extend the maturity, lower the interest rate or defer or forgive principal owed by the borrower. These activities may have short- and long-term adverse effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Other agencies of the U.S. government or Congress also may ask us to undertake significant efforts to support the housing and mortgage markets, as well as struggling homeowners. For example, under the Administration’s Making Home Affordable Program, we are offering HAMP. We have incurred substantial costs in connection with the program, as we discuss in “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations—Financial Impact of the Making Home Affordable Program on Fannie Mae.” During 2009, we were subject to housing goals that required that a specified portion of our mortgage purchases relate to the purchase or securitization of mortgage loans that finance housing for low- and moderate-income households, housing in underserved areas and qualified housing under the definition of special affordable housing. Market conditions during 2009 resulted in the origination of fewer goals-qualifying mortgages, which negatively affected our ability to meet our goals. These conditions include: tighter underwriting and eligibility standards; the sharply increased standards of private mortgage insurers; high unemployment; the increased role of FHA in acquiring goals-qualifying mortgage loans; the collapse of the private-label mortgage-related securities market; multifamily market volatility; and the prospect of high levels of refinancings. These conditions are likely to continue in 2010. On February 17, 2010, the FHFA announced a proposed rule implementing the new housing goals structure for 2010 and 2011 as required by the 2008 Reform Act. The new housing goals structure establishes goals for the purchase of purchase money mortgages backed by single-family, owner-occupied properties affordable to low-income families, very low-income families, and families in low-income areas. The proposed rule also establishes goals for the purchase of 53 Table of Contents mortgages financing multifamily housing affordable to low-income families and very low-income families. We cannot predict the impact that market conditions during 2010 will have on our ability to meet the new goals. Based on preliminary calculations, we believe we met all of our 2009 housing goals except for our “underserved areas” goal and our increased “multifamily special affordable housing” subgoal. We have requested that FHFA find, based on economic and market conditions and our financial condition, that the “underserved areas” goal and the increased “multifamily special affordable housing” subgoal were infeasible for 2009. If FHFA makes this finding, there will be no enforcement action against us for failing to meet these goals. If FHFA finds that the goals were feasible, we may become subject to a housing plan that could require us to take additional steps that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The potential penalties for failure to comply with housing plan requirements are a cease-and-desist order and civil money penalties. In addition, to the extent that we purchase higher risk loans in order to meet our housing goals, these purchases could contribute to further increases in our credit losses and credit-related expenses. Limitations on our ability to access the debt capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations and generate net interest income. Our ability to fund our business depends primarily on our ongoing access to the debt capital markets. Our level of net interest income depends on how much lower our cost of funds is compared to what we earn on our mortgage assets. Market concerns about matters such as the extent of government support for our business and the future of our business (including future profitability, future structure, regulatory actions and GSE status) could have a severe negative effect on our access to the unsecured debt markets, particularly for long-term debt. We believe that our ability in 2009 to issue debt of varying maturities at attractive pricing resulted from federal government support of us and the financial markets, including the prior availability of the Treasury credit facility and the Federal Reserve’s purchases of our debt and MBS. As a result, we believe that our status as a GSE and continued federal government support of our business and the financial markets are essential to maintaining our access to debt funding. Changes or perceived changes in the government’s support of us or the markets could lead to an increase in our roll-over risk in future periods and have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations. Although demand for our debt securities has continued to be strong as of the date of this filing, demand for our debt securities could decline, perhaps significantly, as the Federal Reserve concludes its agency debt and MBS purchase programs by March 31, 2010. On February 1, 2010, the Obama Administration stated in its fiscal year 2011 budget proposal that it was continuing to monitor the situation of the GSEs and would continue to provide updates on considerations for longer-term reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as appropriate. Please see “MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Management—Liquidity Management—Debt Funding—Debt Funding Activity” for a more complete discussion of actions taken by the federal government to support us and the financial markets. There can be no assurance that the government will continue to support us or that our current level of access to debt funding will continue. In addition, future changes or disruptions in the financial markets could significantly change the amount, mix and cost of funds we obtain, as well as our liquidity position. If we are unable to issue both short- and long-term debt securities at attractive rates and in amounts sufficient to operate our business and meet our obligations, it likely would interfere with the operation of our business and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and net worth. Our liquidity contingency planning may not provide sufficient liquidity to operate our business and meet our obligations if we cannot access the unsecured debt markets. We plan for alternative sources of liquidity that are designed to allow us to meet our cash obligations for 90 days without relying on the issuance of unsecured debt. We believe, however, that market conditions over the last two years have had an adverse impact on our ability to effectively plan for a liquidity crisis. During periods of adverse market conditions, our ability to repay maturing indebtedness and fund our operations could be significantly impaired. Our liquidity contingency planning during 2009 relied significantly on the Treasury credit facility, as well as our ability to pledge mortgage assets as collateral for secured borrowings and sell other assets. The Treasury credit facility expired on December 31, 2009, leaving secured borrowings and assets sales as our principal sources of alternative liquidity. Our ability to pledge or sell mortgage assets may 54 Table of Contents be impaired, or the assets may be reduced in value if other market participants are seeking to pledge or sell similar assets at the same time. We may be unable to find sufficient alternative sources of liquidity in the event our access to the unsecured debt markets is impaired. See “MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Management—Liquidity Management—Liquidity Contingency Planning” for a discussion of our contingency plans if we become unable to issue unsecured debt. A decrease in our credit ratings would likely have an adverse effect on our ability to issue debt on reasonable terms and trigger additional collateral requirements. Our borrowing costs and our access to the debt capital markets depend in large part on the high credit ratings on our senior unsecured debt. Our ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies. Factors such as the amount of our net losses, deterioration in our financial condition, actions by governmental entities or others, and sustained declines in our long-term profitability could adversely affect our credit ratings. The reduction in our credit ratings would likely increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets and trigger additional collateral requirements under our derivatives contracts and other borrowing arrangements. It may also reduce our earnings and materially adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to conduct our normal business operations, our financial condition and results of operations. Our credit ratings and ratings outlook are included in “MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Management—Liquidity Management—Credit Ratings.” Deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, one or more of our institutional counterparties could result in financial losses, business disruption and decreased ability to manage risk. We face the risk that one or more of our institutional counterparties may fail to fulfill their contractual obligations to us. The challenging mortgage and credit market conditions have adversely affected, and will likely continue to adversely affect, the liquidity and financial condition of our institutional counterparties. Our primary exposures to institutional counterparty risk are with: mortgage servicers that service the loans we hold in our mortgage portfolio or that back our Fannie Mae MBS; third-party providers of credit enhancement on the mortgage assets that we hold in our mortgage portfolio or that back our Fannie Mae MBS, including mortgage insurers, lenders with risk sharing arrangements, and financial guarantors; issuers of securities held in our cash and other investments portfolio; and derivatives counterparties. We may have multiple exposures to one counterparty as many of our counterparties provide several types of services to us. For example, our lender customers or their affiliates also act as derivatives counterparties, mortgage servicers, custodial depository institutions or document custodians. Accordingly, if one of these counterparties were to become insolvent or otherwise default on its obligations to us, it could harm our business and financial results in a variety of ways. An institutional counterparty may default in its obligations to us for a number of reasons, such as changes in financial condition that affect its credit rating, a reduction in liquidity, operational failures or insolvency. A number of our institutional counterparties are currently experiencing financial difficulties that may negatively affect the ability of these counterparties to meet their obligations to us and the amount or quality of the products or services they provide to us. Counterparty defaults or limitations on their ability to do business with us could result in significant financial losses or hamper our ability to do business, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. We routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk relating to the possibility of a default by our counterparties. In addition, to the extent these transactions are secured, our credit risk may be exacerbated to the extent that the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. We have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, derivatives transactions and equity investments. As a result, we could incur losses relating to defaults under these instruments or relating to impairments to the carrying value of our assets represented by these instruments. These losses could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. 55 Table of Contents We depend on our ability to enter into derivatives transactions in order to manage the duration and prepayment risk of our mortgage portfolio. If we lose access to our derivatives counterparties, it could adversely affect our ability to manage these risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, one or more of our mortgage insurer counterparties could result in nonpayment of claims under mortgage insurance policies, business disruption and increased concentration risk. We rely heavily on mortgage insurers to provide insurance against borrower defaults on conventional single-family mortgage loans with LTV ratios over 80% at the time of acquisition. The current weakened financial condition of our mortgage insurer counterparties creates a risk that these counterparties will fail to fulfill their obligations to reimburse us for claims under insurance policies. Since January 1, 2009, the insurer financial strength ratings of all of our major mortgage insurer counterparties have been downgraded to reflect their weakened financial condition, in some cases more than once. One of our mortgage insurer counterparties ceased issuing commitments for new mortgage insurance in 2008, and, under an order received from its regulator, is now paying all valid claims 60% in cash and 40% by the creation of a deferred payment obligation, which may be paid in the future. A number of our mortgage insurers publicly disclosed that they might exceed the state-imposed risk-to-capital limits under which they operate and they might not have access to sufficient capital to continue to write new business in accordance with state regulatory requirements. Regulators in some states have been granted statutory relief to temporarily waive or raise risk-to-capital limits. However, we can not be certain that a regulator will grant such relief for a regulated entity. Some mortgage insurers have been exploring corporate restructurings, intended to provide relief from risk-to-capital limits in certain states. A restructuring plan that would involve contributing capital to a subsidiary would result in less liquidity available to its parent company to pay claims on its existing book of business, and an increased risk that its parent company will not pay its claims in full in the future. In addition, many mortgage insurers have pursued and continue to explore capital raising options. If mortgage insurers are not able to raise capital and exceed their risk-to-capital limits, they will likely be forced into run-off or receivership unless they can secure a waiver from their state regulator. This would increase the risk that they will fail to pay our claims under insurance policies, and could also cause the quality and speed of their claims processing to deteriorate. If our assessment of one or more of our mortgage insurer counterparty’s ability to fulfill its obligations to us worsens and our internal credit rating for the insurer is further downgraded, it could result in a significant increase in our loss reserves and a significant increase in the fair value of our guaranty obligations. Many mortgage insurers have stopped insuring new mortgages with higher loan-to-value ratios or with lower borrower credit scores or on select property types, which has contributed to the reduction in our business volumes for high loan-to-value ratio loans. As our charter generally requires us to obtain credit enhancement on conventional single-family mortgage loans with loan-to-value ratios over 80% at the time of purchase, an inability to find suitable credit enhancement may inhibit our ability to pursue new business opportunities, meet our housing goals and otherwise support the housing and mortgage markets. For example, where mortgage insurance or other credit enhancement is not available, we may be hindered in our ability to refinance borrowers whose loans we do not own or guarantee into more affordable loans. In addition, access to fewer mortgage insurer counterparties will increase our concentration risk with the remaining mortgage insurers in the industry. The loss of business volume from any one of our key lender customers could adversely affect our business and result in a decrease in our revenues. Our ability to generate revenue from the purchase and securitization of mortgage loans depends on our ability to acquire a steady flow of mortgage loans from the originators of those loans. We acquire most of our mortgage loans through mortgage purchase volume commitments that are negotiated annually or semiannually with lender customers and that establish a minimum level of mortgage volume that these customers will 56 Table of Contents deliver to us. We acquire a significant portion of our mortgage loans from several large mortgage lenders. During 2009, two of our customers each accounted for greater than 20% of our single-family business volume. Accordingly, maintaining our current business relationships and business volumes with our top lender customers is critical to our business. The mortgage industry has been consolidating and a decreasing number of large lenders originate most single-family mortgages. The loss of business from any one of our major lender customers could adversely affect our revenues and the liquidity of Fannie Mae MBS, which in turn could have an adverse effect on their market value. In addition, as we become more reliant on a smaller number of lender customers, our negotiating leverage with these customers decreases, which could diminish our ability to price our products optimally. In addition, many of our lender customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future, financial and liquidity problems that may affect the volume of business they are able to generate. Many of our lender customers also have tightened their lending criteria, which has reduced their loan volume. If any of our key lender customers significantly reduces the volume or quality of mortgage loans that the lender delivers to us or that we are willing to buy from them, we could lose significant business volume that we might be unable to replace, which could adversely affect our business and result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, a significant reduction in the volume of mortgage loans that we securitize could reduce the liquidity of Fannie Mae MBS, which in turn could have an adverse effect on their market value. Our reliance on third parties to service our mortgage loans may impede our efforts to keep people in their homes, as well as the re-performance rate of loans we modify. Mortgage servicers, or their agents and contractors, typically are the primary point of contact for borrowers as we delegate servicing responsibilities to them. We rely on these mortgage servicers to identify and contact troubled borrowers as early as possible, to assess the situation and offer appropriate options for resolving the problem and to successfully implement a solution. The demands placed on experienced mortgage loan servicers to service delinquent loans have increased significantly across the industry, straining servicer capacity. The Making Home Affordable Program is also impacting servicer resources. To the extent that mortgage servicers are hampered by limited resources or other factors, they may not be successful in conducting their servicing activities in a manner that fully accomplishes our objectives within the timeframe we desire. Further, our servicers have advised us that they have not been able to reach many of the borrowers who may need help with their mortgage loans even when repeated efforts have been made to contact the borrower. For these reasons, our ability to actively manage the troubled loans that we own or guarantee, and to implement our homeownership assistance and foreclosure prevention efforts quickly and effectively, may be limited by our reliance on our mortgage servicers. Our adoption of new accounting standards relating to the elimination of QSPEs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to issue financial reports in a timely manner. Effective January 1, 2010, we adopted new accounting standards for transfers of financial assets and consolidation, which will result in our recording on our consolidated balance sheet substantially all of the loans held in our MBS trusts. Implementation of these standards required us to make major operational and system changes. These changes, which involved the efforts of hundreds of our employees and contractors, have had a substantial impact on our overall internal control environment. The adoption of these accounting standards requires that we consolidate onto our balance sheet the assets and liabilities of the substantial majority of our MBS trusts, which will significantly increase the amount of our assets and liabilities. We initially recorded the assets and liabilities of the substantial majority of our existing outstanding MBS trusts that we were required to consolidate effective January 1, 2010 based on the unpaid principal balance as of that date. The unpaid principal balance amounts we consolidated related to MBS trusts increased both our total assets and total liabilities by approximately $2.4 trillion effective January 1, 2010. In addition, the number of loans on our balance sheet increased as a result of this consolidation to approximately 18 million as of January 1, 2010, from approximately two million as of December 31, 2009. Because of the magnitude and complexity of the operational and system changes that we have made, there is a risk that unexpected 57 Table of Contents developments could preclude us from implementing all of the necessary system changes and internal control processes by the time we file our results for the first quarter of 2010. Failure to make these changes could have a material adverse impact on us, including on our ability to produce financial reports on a timely basis. In addition, making the necessary operational and system changes in a compressed time frame has diverted resources from our other business requirements and corporate initiatives, which could have a material adverse impact on our operations. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our reported results or disclosures that are not complete or accurate. Management has determined that, as of the date of this filing, we have ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, has expressed an adverse opinion on our internal control over financial reporting because of the material weaknesses. Our ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and material weaknesses could result in errors in our reported results or disclosures that are not complete or accurate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. One of the material weaknesses relates specifically to the impact of the conservatorship on our disclosure controls and procedures. Because we are under the control of FHFA, some of the information that we may need to meet our disclosure obligations may be solely within the knowledge of FHFA. As our conservator, FHFA has the power to take actions without our knowledge that could be material to our shareholders and other stakeholders, and could significantly affect our financial performance or our continued existence as an ongoing business. Because FHFA currently functions as both our regulator and our conservator, there are inherent structural limitations on our ability to design, implement, test or operate effective disclosure controls and procedures relating to information within FHFA’s knowledge. As a result, we have not been able to update our disclosure controls and procedures in a manner that adequately ensures the accumulation and communication to management of information known to FHFA that is needed to meet our disclosure obligations under the federal securities laws, including disclosures affecting our financial statements. Given the structural nature of this material weakness, it is likely that we will not remediate this weakness while we are under conservatorship. See “Controls and Procedures” for further discussion of management’s conclusions on our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Operational control weaknesses could materially adversely affect our business, cause financial losses and harm our reputation. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could have a material adverse effect on our risk management, liquidity, financial statement reliability, financial condition and results of operations; disrupt our business; and result in legislative or regulatory intervention, liability to customers, and financial losses or damage to our reputation, including as a result of our inadvertent dissemination of confidential or inaccurate information. For example, our business is dependent on our ability to manage and process, on a daily basis, an extremely large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets and in an environment in which we must make frequent changes to our core processes in response to changing external conditions. These transactions are subject to various legal and regulatory standards. We rely upon business processes that are highly dependent on people, technology and the use of numerous complex systems and models to manage our business and produce books and records upon which our financial statements are prepared. We experienced a number of operational incidents in 2009 related to inadequately designed or failed execution of internal processes or systems. For example, in July and August 2009, we publicly identified errors in certain information reported about our MBS trusts and published corrected data relating to these errors. We are implementing our operational risk management framework to support the identification, assessment, mitigation and control, and reporting and monitoring of operational risk. We have made a number of changes in our structure, business focus and operations during the past year, as well as changes to our risk management processes, to keep pace with changing external conditions. These changes, in turn, have necessitated modifications to or development of new business models, processes, systems, policies, standards and controls. The steps we have taken and are taking to enhance our technology and operational controls and organizational 58 Table of Contents structure may not be effective to manage these risks and may create additional operational risk as we execute these enhancements. In addition, we have experienced substantial changes in management, employees and our business structure and practices since the conservatorship began. These changes could increase our operational risk and result in business interruptions and financial losses. In addition, due to events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, employees or third parties could engage in improper or unauthorized actions, or these systems could fail to operate properly, which could lead to financial losses, business disruptions, legal and regulatory sanctions, and reputational damage. Management turnover may impair our ability to manage our business effectively. Since August 2008, we have had a total of three Chief Executive Officers, three Chief Financial Officers, three Chief Risk Officers, two General Counsels and an interim General Counsel, two Executive Vice Presidents leading our Single Family business, two Executive Vice Presidents leading our Capital Markets group, and two Chief Technology Officers, as well as significant departures by various other members of senior management. Our Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel and Chief Technology Officer were new to Fannie Mae in 2009. Integration of new management and further turnover in key management positions could harm our ability to manage our business effectively and ultimately adversely affect our financial performance. Limitations and restrictions on employee compensation have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our ability to recruit and retain well-qualified employees. Changes in public policy or opinion also may affect our ability to hire and retain qualified employees. If we lose a significant number of employees and are not able to quickly recruit and train new employees, it could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill, and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and our results of operations. In addition, the success of our business strategy depends on the continuing service of our employees. In many cases, our accounting policies and methods, which are fundamental to how we report our financial condition and results of operations, require management to make judgments and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management also may rely on the use of models in making estimates about these matters. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in applying many of these accounting policies and methods so that these policies and methods comply with GAAP and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the appropriate accounting policy or method from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances but might affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses that we report. See “Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for a description of our significant accounting policies. We have identified three accounting policies as critical to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. These accounting policies are described in “MD&A—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We believe these policies are critical because they require management to make particularly subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because of the likelihood that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Due to the complexity of these critical accounting policies, our accounting methods relating to these policies involve substantial use of models. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on assumptions, including assumptions about future events. Our models may not include assumptions that reflect very positive or very negative market conditions and, accordingly, our actual results could differ significantly from those generated by our models. As a result of the above factors, the estimates that we use to prepare our financial statements, as well as our estimates of our future results of operations, may be inaccurate, potentially significantly. Failure of our models to produce reliable results may adversely affect our ability to manage risk and make effective business decisions. 59 Table of Contents We make significant use of business and financial models to measure and monitor our risk exposures and to manage our business. For example, we use models to measure and monitor our exposures to interest rate, credit and market risks, and to forecast credit losses. The information provided by these models is used in making business decisions relating to strategies, initiatives, transactions, pricing and products. Models are inherently imperfect predictors of actual results because they are based on historical data available to us and our assumptions about factors such as future loan demand, prepayment speeds, default rates, severity rates, home price trends and other factors that may overstate or understate future experience. Our models could produce unreliable results for a number of reasons, including limitations on historical data to predict results due to unprecedented events or circumstances, invalid or incorrect assumptions underlying the models, the need for manual adjustments in response to rapid changes in economic conditions, incorrect coding of the models, incorrect data being used by the models or inappropriate application of a model to products or events outside of the model’s intended use. In particular, models are less dependable when the economic environment is outside of historical experience, as has been the case recently. In addition, we continually receive new economic and mortgage market data, such as housing starts and sales and home price changes. Our critical accounting estimates, such as our loss reserves and other-than-temporary impairment, are subject to change, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of changes in market conditions. However, there is generally a lag between the availability of this market information and the preparation of our financial statements. When market conditions change quickly and in unforeseen ways, there is an increased risk that the assumptions and inputs reflected in our models are not representative of current market conditions. The dramatic changes in the housing, credit and capital markets have required frequent adjustments to our models and the application of greater management judgment in the interpretation and adjustment of the results produced by our models. Actions we may take to assist the mortgage market may also require adjustments to our models and the application of greater management judgment. This application of greater management judgment reflects the need to take into account updated information while continuing to maintain controlled processes for model updates, including model development, testing, independent validation and implementation. As a result of the time and resources, including technical and staffing resources, that are required to perform these processes effectively, it may not be possible to replace existing models quickly enough to ensure that they will always properly account for the impacts of recent information and actions. The application of management judgment to interpret or adjust modeled results, particularly in the current environment in which many events are unprecedented and therefore there is no relevant historical data, also may produce unreliable information. If our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management decisions, including decisions affecting loan purchases, management of credit losses and risk, guaranty fee pricing, asset and liability management and the management of our net worth, and any of those decisions could adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, net worth and financial condition. Furthermore, any strategies we employ to attempt to manage the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective. Changes in option-adjusted spreads or interest rates, or our inability to manage interest rate risk successfully, could adversely affect our net interest income and increase interest rate risk. We fund our operations primarily through the issuance of debt and invest our funds primarily in mortgage-related assets that permit the mortgage borrowers to prepay the mortgages at any time. These business activities expose us to market risk, which is the risk of adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments resulting from changes in market conditions. Our most significant market risks are interest rate risk and option-adjusted spread risk. We describe these risks in more detail in “MD&A—Risk Management—Market Risk Management, Including Interest Rate Risk Management.” Changes in interest rates affect both the value of our mortgage assets and prepayment rates on our mortgage loans. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. Our ability to manage interest rate risk depends on our ability to issue debt 60 Table of Contents instruments with a range of maturities and other features, including call features, at attractive rates and to engage in derivatives transactions. We must exercise judgment in selecting the amount, type and mix of debt and derivatives instruments that will most effectively manage our interest rate risk. The amount, type and mix of financial instruments that are available to us may not offset possible future changes in the spread between our borrowing costs and the interest we earn on our mortgage assets. Our business is subject to laws and regulations that restrict our activities and operations, which may prohibit us from undertaking activities that management believes would benefit our business and limits our ability to diversify our business. As a federally chartered corporation, we are subject to the limitations imposed by the Charter Act, extensive regulation, supervision and examination by FHFA, and regulation by other federal agencies, including Treasury, HUD and the SEC. As a company under conservatorship, our primary regulator has management authority over us in its role as our conservator. We are also subject to many laws and regulations that affect our business, including those regarding taxation and privacy. In addition, the policy, approach or regulatory philosophy of these agencies can materially affect our business. For example, the GSE Act requires that, with some exceptions, we must obtain FHFA’s approval before initially offering a product. In a February 2, 2010 letter to Congress, the Acting Director of FHFA announced that FHFA was instructing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac not to submit requests for approval of new products under FHFA’s rule implementing the GSE Act provision, stating that “permitting [Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac] to engage in new products is inconsistent with the goals of conservatorship,” and concluding that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac “will be limited to continuing their existing core business activities and taking actions necessary to advance the goals of the conservatorship.” The Charter Act defines our permissible business activities. For example, we may not purchase single-family loans in excess of the conforming loan limits. In addition, under the Charter Act, our business is limited to the U.S. housing finance sector. As a result of these limitations on our ability to diversify our operations, our financial condition and earnings depend almost entirely on conditions in a single sector of the U.S. economy, specifically, the U.S. housing market. The deteriorating conditions in the U.S. housing market over the past approximately two years has therefore had a significant adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and net worth, which is likely to continue. We could be required to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties as a result of pending government investigations and civil litigation. We are subject to investigations by the Department of Justice and the SEC, and are a party to a number of lawsuits. We are unable at this time to estimate our potential liability in these matters, but may be required to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties and incur significant expenses in connection with these investigations and lawsuits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. In addition, responding to requests for information in these investigations and lawsuits may divert significant internal resources away from managing our business. More information regarding these investigations and lawsuits is included in “Legal Proceedings” and “Note 20, Commitments and Contingencies.” If our common stock trades below one dollar per share, or our conservator determines that our securities should not continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, our common and preferred stock could be delisted from the NYSE, which likely would result in a significant decline in trading volume and liquidity, and possibly a decline in price, of our securities. The average closing price of our common stock for the 30 consecutive trading days ended February 24, 2010 was $1.03 per share. Under NYSE rules, we would not meet the NYSE’s standards for continued listing of our common stock if the average closing price of our common stock were less than one dollar per share during a consecutive 30 trading-day period. If we receive notice from the NYSE that we have failed to satisfy this requirement, and the average price of our common stock does not subsequently rise above one dollar for a period of 30 consecutive trading days within a specified period, the NYSE rules provide that the NYSE will initiate suspension and delisting procedures unless we present a plan to the NYSE to cure this deficiency. 61 Table of Contents If we were to receive notice from the NYSE that we failed to satisfy the average minimum closing price requirement for our common stock, our conservator would be involved in any decision made on whether or not we submit a plan to the NYSE to cure this deficiency. Our conservator could decline to permit any such submission, which would result in the NYSE initiating suspension and delisting procedures. Our conservator would be involved in any decision regarding the continued listing of our common and preferred stock on the NYSE. For example, our conservator could direct us to voluntarily delist our common and preferred stock from the NYSE. If our common and preferred stock were to be delisted from the NYSE, it likely would result in a significant decline in the trading volume and liquidity of both our common stock and the classes of our preferred stock listed on the NYSE. As a result, it could become more difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at prices comparable to those in effect prior to delisting, or at all. Mortgage fraud could result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation. We use a process of delegated underwriting in which lenders make specific representations and warranties about the characteristics of the single-family mortgage loans we purchase and securitize. As a result, we do not independently verify most borrower information that is provided to us. This exposes us to the risk that one or more of the parties involved in a transaction (the borrower, seller, broker, appraiser, title agent, lender or servicer) will engage in fraud by misrepresenting facts about a mortgage loan. We have experienced financial losses resulting from mortgage fraud, including institutional fraud perpetrated by counterparties. In the future, we may experience additional financial losses and reputational damage as a result of mortgage fraud. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INDUSTRY A continuing, or broader, decline in U.S. home prices or activity in the U.S. housing market would likely cause higher credit losses and credit-related expenses, and lower business volumes. We expect weakness in the real estate financial markets to continue into 2010. The continued deterioration in the performance of outstanding mortgages will result in the foreclosure of some troubled loans, which is likely to add to excess inventory. We also expect heightened default and severity rates to continue during this period, and home prices, particularly in some geographic areas, may decline further. Any resulting increase in delinquencies or defaults, or in severity, will result in a higher level of credit losses and credit-related expenses, which in turn will reduce our earnings and adversely affect our net worth and financial condition. Our business volume is affected by the rate of growth in total U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the U.S. residential mortgage market. The rate of growth in total U.S. residential mortgage debt outstanding has declined substantially in response to the reduced activity in the housing market and declines in home prices, and we expect single-family mortgage debt outstanding to decrease by 1.7% in 2010. A decline in the rate of growth in mortgage debt outstanding reduces the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans available for us to purchase or securitize, which in turn could reduce our net interest income and guaranty fee income. Even if we are able to increase our share of the secondary mortgage market, it may not be sufficient to make up for the decline in the rate of growth in mortgage originations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Structural and regulatory changes in the financial services industry may negatively impact our business. The financial services industry is undergoing significant structural changes. In light of current conditions in the financial markets and economy, regulators and legislatures have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Obama Administration issued a white paper in June 2009 that proposes significantly altering the current regulatory framework applicable to the financial services industry, with enhanced and more comprehensive regulation of financial firms and markets. That announcement was followed by proposed legislation submitted to Congress by the Department of the Treasury. The proposed legislation included proposals relating to the promotion of robust supervision and regulation of financial firms, stronger consumer protection regulations, the enhanced regulation of securitization markets, changes to existing capital and liquidity requirements for financial firms, additional regulation of the over-the-counter 62 Table of Contents derivatives market, regulations on compensation practices and changes in accounting standards. The House Financial Services Committee and the Agriculture Committee conducted hearings during 2009, and the House passed the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in December 2009. While not identical to the Treasury proposal, the House bill was broadly similar to that proposal. In November 2009, Senator Christopher Dodd introduced the Restoring American Financial Stability Act of 2009, which covered many of the same areas as the House bill but contained many significant differences. If one of these bills is implemented, it may directly and indirectly affect many aspects of our business. Additionally, implementation of such a bill will result in increased supervision and more comprehensive regulation of our counterparties in this industry, which may have a significant impact on our counterparty credit risk. On February 1, 2010, the Obama Administration stated in its fiscal year 2011 budget proposal that it was continuing to monitor the situation of the GSEs and would continue to provide updates on considerations for longer-term reform of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as appropriate. We are unable to predict whether these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations (and their interpretation or implementation) will occur in the future. Actions by regulators of the financial services industry, including actions related to limits on executive compensation, impact the retention and recruitment of management. In addition, the actions of Treasury, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact financial institutions’ cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities, which could increase our borrowing costs or make borrowing more difficult for us. Changes in monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to anticipate. The financial market crisis has also resulted in mergers of some of our most significant institutional counterparties. Consolidation of the financial services industry has increased and may continue to increase our concentration risk to counterparties in this industry, and we are and may become more reliant on a smaller number of institutional counterparties, which both increases our risk exposure to any individual counterparty and decreases our negotiating leverage with these counterparties. The structural changes in the financial services industry and any legislative or regulatory changes could affect us in substantial and unforeseeable ways and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. In particular, these changes could affect our ability to issue debt and may reduce our customer base. The occurrence of a major natural or other disaster in the United States could increase our delinquency rates and credit losses or disrupt our business operation. The occurrence of a major natural disaster, terrorist attack or health epidemic in the United States could increase our delinquency rates and credit losses in the affected region or regions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net worth. The contingency plans and facilities that we have in place may be insufficient to prevent an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business, which could lead to financial losses. Substantially all of our senior management and investment personnel work out of our offices in the Washington, DC metropolitan area. If a disruption occurs and our senior management or other employees are unable to occupy our offices, communicate with other personnel or travel to other locations, our ability to interact with each other and with our customers may suffer, and we may not be successful in implementing contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 