Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements of Earnings Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Summary of Quarterly Data (Unaudited) Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules - 4 - PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Stryker Corporation (the Company or Stryker) is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose & throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. Stryker's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, are accessible free of charge at www.stryker.com within the "Investors-SEC Filings & Ownership Reports" link. In 2007 the Company completed the sale of its outpatient physical therapy business, Physiotherapy Associates, to Water Street Healthcare Partners, for $150 million in cash less certain indebtedness. Physiotherapy Associates' operating results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In 2006 the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of Sightline Technologies Ltd. (Sightline), a private, development-stage company. The acquisition of Sightline, a developer of flexible endoscopes, is expected to enhance the Company's presence in the gastrointestinal and other markets within its MedSurg Equipment segment. In 2005 the Company completed the repatriation of $722 million of foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act (the Act). The Act provided a temporary incentive for United States companies to repatriate accumulated income earned in foreign jurisdictions at a reduced income tax cost. The repatriated funds were invested pursuant to an approved Domestic Reinvestment Plan that conformed to the Act. In 2005 the Company acquired, by merger, all of the outstanding stock of PlasmaSol Corp. (PlasmaSol). PlasmaSol has developed a technology that should allow Stryker to provide sterilization equipment for use with certain of its MedSurg Equipment products. In 2005 the Company acquired eTrauma.com Corp. (eTrauma). The acquisition expanded the Company's endoscopic and digital imaging equipment product offerings within its MedSurg Equipment segment by adding eTrauma's proprietary Picture Archival and Communications Systems (PACS) image management and viewing software. - 5 - PRODUCT SALES The Company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment. The Orthopaedic Implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial implant systems; bone cement; and the bone growth factor OP-1. The MedSurg Equipment segment sells surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. The Other category includes corporate administration, interest expense and interest and marketable securities income. The following amounts (in millions) and percentages represent domestic/international and business segment net sales during each of the three years ended December 31: 2007 2006 2005 $ % $ % $ % Domestic/international sales: Domestic $3,850.3 64% $3,298.4 64% $2,903.0 63% International 2,150.2 36 1,848.8 36 1,705.9 37 Total net sales $6,000.5 100% $5,147.2 100% $4,608.9 100% Business segment sales: Orthopaedic Implants $3,570.7 60% $3,110.1 60% $2,849.5 62% MedSurg Equipment 2,429.8 40 2,037.1 40 1,759.4 38 Total net sales $6,000.5 100% $5,147.2 100% $4,608.9 100% Additional financial information regarding the Company's operating segments and geographic areas can be found under the captions "Results of Operations" on pages 29 through 37 and "Note 12 - Segment and Geographic Data" on pages 64 through 66 of this report. Approximately 70% of the Company's sales in 2007, 71% in 2006 and 72% in 2005 consisted of products with short lives, such as reconstructive, trauma, spinal and craniomaxillofacial implant systems (while implants have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital); disposables and expendable tools; and parts and service revenues, including service and repair charges. The balance of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year. The Company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of its business. Orthopaedic Implants Orthopaedic Implants are designed and manufactured by Stryker Orthopaedics, Stryker Osteosynthesis, Stryker Spine and Stryker Biotech and consist of such products as implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; bone cement; and the bone growth factor OP-1. Artificial joints are made of cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis, osteoporosis, other diseases or injury. The Company's OP-1 bone growth factor, which induces the formation of new bone when implanted into bone, is composed of recombinant human OP-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. Minimally Invasive Surgery Many of Stryker's technologically advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive surgery (MIS) procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function. The Company supports surgeons with technology, procedural development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new MIS techniques. - 6 - In order to facilitate emerging procedural approaches, the Company has also developed instrumentation for MIS total joint procedures. The Company's surgical navigation systems are frequently used in MIS procedures to improve the accuracy of measurements and to position the implant. Stryker Osteosynthesis has a market leadership position in the Intramedullary (IM) Hip Screw market due to the minimally invasive nature of the Gamma Nail, which can be implanted through a smaller incision than other competing products. In addition, surgeons are testing the use of the Company's surgical navigation systems for this procedure as well as in surgery for pelvic fractures. The Company's Triathlon Total Knee Minimally Invasive Instrumentation is designed to complement the unique, minimally invasive total knee procedure pioneered by a leading orthopaedic surgeon. The EIUS Unicondylar Knee and the Avon Patellofemoral Joint are resurfacing, bone-conserving designs that are used to treat disease isolated to one compartment of the knee. These pre-total knee treatment options can also be implanted using minimally invasive techniques. Orthobiologics Stryker strives to be an innovator and leader in the fast-growing field of orthobiologics with products that combine both natural and synthetic technologies. The Company's innovative product portfolio includes such products as OP-1, a proprietary, recombinant version of a signaling protein with multiple tissue regeneration properties; TissueMend, a single-layer acellular collagen matrix that is easy to handle and delivers both unrivaled strength and documented remodeling capability; Hydroset, the next generation in bone substitute technology, which is injectible, sculptable and fast setting; BoneSource BVF, an effective osteoconductive bone substitute with excellent biocompatibility and mechanical stability; and BoneSave, a granules-based alternative to conventional bone grafting. Hip Implant Systems Through Stryker Orthopaedics, the Company offers a variety of hip implant systems for the global reconstructive market. The ABG Hip System, Partnership Hip System, Secur-Fit Hip System, Omnifit Hip System, Accolade Hip System and Restoration Hip System are all comprehensive systems of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide physicians and patients with reliable results and to reduce operating time for primary and revision procedures. The Exeter Total Hip System is based on a collarless, highly polished, double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases compression at the cement/bone interface. During 2004, the Company began transitioning to its new Restoration Modular Revision Hip System in the United States, Europe, Australia and Canada. This system offers surgeons performing revision surgeries flexibility in treating complex hip stem revisions and restoring patient biomechanics. The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System also takes advantage of Stryker's long clinical history with hydroxylapatite (HA), a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to bone, by incorporating PureFix HA coating on many components. The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System complements the Company's existing Restoration HA and Restoration plasma spray (PS) monolithic revision systems. In 2007 the Company began selling the Cormet Hip Resurfacing System in the United States pursuant to an exclusive 10-year marketing and distribution agreement with Corin Group PLC. In 2006 the Company began the initial launch of another hip resurfacing product in certain international markets. These products represent a less invasive option for younger patients with the potential for enhanced stability and range of motion. In hip resurfacing procedures, very little bone is removed from the femoral head, the femoral neck is preserved and the femoral canal is spared. Following the clinical success of its Crossfire technology, a highly crosslinked polyethylene designed to reduce wear, Stryker launched X3 polyethylene in 2005. X3 polyethylene is the Company's next-generation highly crosslinked polyethylene, which features a higher level of strength and wear reduction in both hip and knee replacements. - 7 - In 2006 the Company received clearance from the FDA for its advanced bearing system, Low Friction Ion Treatment (LFIT) Anatomic Femoral Heads with X3 polyethylene liners. This represents a significant advancement in hip-bearing technology through the combination of Stryker's LFIT technology and X3 advanced bearing technology. The femoral heads are anatomically sized for more natural hip performance. In 2007 the Company further expanded its anatomic femoral head offerings with the introduction of the Delta Ceramic Anatomic head for even greater options to reduce wear and potentially increase implant longevity. Stryker was the first company to receive clearance from the FDA to commercially release for sale in the United States a hip implant with HA surface treatment. The Company's global clinical experience with HA-coated hip stems now extends over 20 years, and reported clinical performance continues to equal or exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature. The Company's CentPillar Hip System provide lines of products that offer an increased range of motion and a minimally invasive technique preferred by Japanese surgeons for their patients. In 2007 the Company introduced CentPillar TMZF to the Japanese market. This is the first product introduced in Japan that utilizes Stryker's patented TMZF material along with the Company's PureFix HA. The TMZF material allows for implant stiffness more closely matched to a patient's own bone to enhance fixation. The Company received premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA in 2003 for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement system, the Trident Ceramic Acetabular Insert, for patients in the United States. Stryker Orthopaedics has successfully launched the Trident ceramic insert in the United States, Europe, Australia and Canada. The Trident insert is wear resistant, and it is protected and strengthened by a patented titanium sleeve. In 2006 the Company launched the Trident Tritanium Acetabular Shell which contains a highly porous surface that closely resembles the structure of trabecular bone. This shell is designed for revision surgery and contains multiple screw holes to achieve bone fixation and initial stability. The Company entered 2008 with more than 30 years of clinical history with the Exeter Hip System, more than 20 years of clinical history with the Omnifit cemented stem and more than 20 years of clinical history with the Omnifit HA stem. Long-term clinical results are an important factor in the Company's ability to market hip implants. Knee Implant Systems The Company offers five major knee implant systems under the Stryker brand name: the Duracon, EIUS, Global Modular Replacement System (GMRS), Scorpio and Triathlon systems. During 2007 the Triathlon system surpassed 200,000 implantations worldwide and was complemented with the introduction of the Triathlon TS System. The DuraconTS and ScorpioTS Revision systems and Modular Rotating Hinge complete the product line offerings with implants for complex revision procedures. The Triathlon Knee System represents the Company's evolutionary design that has been developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and is designed to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion. The state-of-the-art Triathlon Knee instrumentation is designed to improve operating room efficiency through a streamlined, integrated system providing options and flexibility to meet surgeons' varying preferences and multiple surgical techniques. In 2007 Stryker introduced the condylar stabilizing (CS) ultra-congruent insert for the Triathlon Knee System. The Triathlon CS insert is a high-performance insert designed to provide patients with more natural motion and the potential for greater implant longevity. In 2006 the Company introduced X3 advanced bearing technology as well as anterior referencing instruments for use with the Triathlon Knee System. In 2005 the Company launched a posteriorly stabilized (PS) version of the Triathlon knee following the launch of the cruciate-retaining (CR) version in 2004. In 2005 the Company continued its launch of the Triathlon Knee System on a worldwide basis throughout the United States and Europe and into Canada and the Pacific region. - 8 - The GMRS is a global product that offers a comprehensive solution for severe bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision surgery patients. GMRS has tibial and femoral components, including a total femur, and a modular rotating hinge knee. The system employs both titanium and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with the superior flexibility of the hinge. The MRS, the predecessor to the GMRS, was the first modular segmental replacement system when it was introduced in 1988. These system components have maintained a leadership position in this market segment since their introduction. The Scorpio knee implant design is based on the epicondylar axis of the knee. This patented approach addresses significant clinical issues, such as improved patient rehabilitation and midflexion stability, through an increase in the patella-femoral moment arm and a single anterior-posterior radius. In 2006, the Scorpio HA CR and Scorpio HA PS versions were launched. The Scorpio HA CR product is designed to minimize polyethylene wear and the Scorpio HA PS product features a minimally invasive open box design and maximized stability. The Scorpio Plus Mobile Bearing tibial component was launched in markets outside the United States in 2001, and a clinical trial is in progress in the United States. This addition to the Scorpio line provides a competitive entry into the growing, mobile-bearing market segment. The Scorpio NRG, originally launched in Japan, was introduced in Europe and the Pacific region in 2005 and in the United States in 2006. Scorpio NRG provides additional kinematic benefits over ScorpioFlex, including increased rotational allowance, an articulating design for deeper flexion and greater extension allowance without impingement. In 2007 the Scorpio NRG with X3 advanced bearing technology was launched. This new version of the Scorpio NRG is designed to lower wear rates compared with standard inserts. The ScorpioFlex, which is available for both posterior cruciate-retaining and cruciate-substituting indications, is specifically designed for patients who have the ability and motivation to return to high-flexion activities such as gardening and golfing. The Scorpio System is supported by the Passport instrumentation system, which was designed to provide intraoperative flexibility and precision as well as a simple, cost-effective approach to total knee replacement surgery. The EIUS Unicondylar Knee replacement system is designed for the minimally invasive knee surgery market segment. This system marries bone-sparing femoral and tibial implants with sophisticated instrumentation and a surgical technique aimed at reducing rehabilitation time for patients. Other Joint Replacement Products The Company markets other joint replacement products, principally shoulder and elbow implants and related instruments, under the Stryker brand name. The Solar Total Shoulder System provides a unique design for the humeral head that allows surgeons to adjust tension of the supporting tissues while maximizing range of motion. The shoulder instruments offer surgeons increased visibility and access to this tightly confined joint space. The Solar BiPolar Shoulder provides surgeons with additional options for addressing rotator cuff arthropathy arthritis of the shoulder and incorporates the patented bipolar locking mechanism that is also used in the Company's hip implants. The Solar Shoulder product line gives surgeons increased intraoperative flexibility to restore the patient's shoulder kinematics. In 2007 the Company introduced the ReUnion Shoulder fracture system of implants and instrumentation. The ReUnion System utilizes an innovative trial system to simplify the reconstruction of the shoulder during fracture surgery. The Solar Total Elbow complements products offered for upper extremity procedures. The semiconstrained design and modular components address varying types of patient anatomy. Bone Cement Simplex bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first approved for orthopaedic use in the United States in 1971 and is the most widely used bone cement in the world. The Company manufactures and provides several variations of Simplex bone cement to meet specific patient needs. Simplex has nearly 50 years of clinical history, the longest of any bone cement, with more than 400 published clinical papers. - 9 - Trauma Implant Systems Through Stryker Osteosynthesis, the Company develops, manufactures and markets its trauma extremities and deformities systems. These systems, including nailing, plating, hip fracture, external fixation systems and bone substitutes, are used primarily in deformity corrections and in the fixation of fractures resulting from sudden injury. These products consist of internal fixation devices marketed under such names as Gamma, Omega, Asnis, AxSOS, Variax, Hydroset, BixCut T2 and S2, along with external fixation devices marketed under the Apex, Hoffmann II, TenXor and Monotube Triax names. The Company's internal fixation product portfolio includes a full array of IM nails, hip fracture devices and plates and screws in both titanium and stainless steel. These products complement the total hip and knee replacement offerings mentioned above by offering a restorative option in addition to total joint replacement. To address the hip trauma and fracture segment, the Company markets several products, including the IM nail portfolio, led by the T2 Nailing System; the Gamma Nail, a unique IM nail for trochanteric fractures; the Omega hip screw system; the Asnis Cannulated Screw System; and the Hansson pin system, providing a complete offering of surgical solutions for the hip trauma patient. These hip fracture systems offer orthopaedic surgeons multiple options depending on their preferences and patient needs. The T2 Nailing System includes femoral and tibial components with a common instrument platform for accuracy and ease of use. The Company has also recently introduced the T2 Ankle Arthrodesis Nail to provide the option for tibiotalocalcaneal fusion with a retrograde IM nail to repair limited soft tissue damage in the ankle area, early weight bearing and compression of the subtalar and tibiotalar joints. Building on the success of the T2 titanium nail system, the Company introduced the stainless steel S2 tibial and femoral nails. The Gamma3 is based on 20 years of Gamma Nail experience and is the third generation of IM short and long Gamma fixation nails. The Gamma3 System is designed to facilitate minimally invasive surgery (MIS) and reduce surgery time through the use of newly designed implants and instrumentation. The Asnis Cannulated Screw System can help simplify the operative procedure through features that allow surgeons to place, insert and remove locking screws easily. This system was recently expanded to include smaller diameters of 2.0mm and 3.0mm for foot surgery to complement the Variax foot and ankle plating system. In 2007 the Company introduced the Omega 3 Compression Hip Screw System, a unique and innovative product that reflects Stryker's extensive experience in the treatment of hip fractures of the proximal femur. The Omega 3 system offers the surgeon a wide choice of low-profile hip plates plus the option to lock screws with diverging fixation. The Omega 3 allows the surgeon to decide preoperatively or even intraoperatively to add axial stable screws to lock the hip plate to the femoral shaft. Axial stability with 5.0mm locking inserts and corresponding locking screws allows for increased stability. This may be advantageous for early mobilization and when the bone density or bone quality is limited. To address the knee trauma segment, Stryker offers the Hoffman II Modular Fixation System, the T2 SCN Nailing System and the SPS and AxSOS plating solutions. The Hoffman II knee-bridging frame is used to stabilize injuries to the knee until definitive treatment with a plate or nail occurs or reconstruction takes place. In addition, Stryker offers the T2 SCN Nail, which can be used for definitive treatment of supracondylar femur fractures just above the knee joint. This nail can also be used for periprosthetic fracture fixation for traumatic fractures in patients who have already had a joint replacement. Stryker has several product lines for upper extremity trauma. The Universal Distal Radius System complements the stainless steel Numelock II with a titanium option in distal radius plates and screws. The Universal Distal Radius System offers a wide array of precontoured, variable-sized plates for volar, distal and column approaches and both open reduction and internal fixation techniques. In 2006 the Company launched, on a limited basis, the second-generation VariAx Universal Distal Radius System, which is thinner than the original and features polyaxial locking. The AxSOS Locking Plate System, also introduced in 2006, is designed to treat metaphyseal and diaphyseal fractures with low-profile anatomically contoured plates, a unique screw design and a simple instrument platform. - 10 - The Company's external fixation products also include the Hoffmann II Compact and MicroFix, the Monotube Triax monolateral system, the TenXor circular fixation system for complex fractures and a complete range of pins and wires for attaching the devices to fractured bones. The Hoffmann II Compact for upper extremity fractures includes a patented snap-fit mechanism that makes it easy for surgeons to construct the fixation device to fit the patient and align the fractured bones. It also has a full selection of lightweight radiolucent connection bars that allow for quick intraoperative fracture repair. The Monotube Triax System is available in three sizes and includes an adjustable feature that enables surgeons not only to stabilize fractures but also to lengthen the bone in cases where bone has been removed due to damage. The TenXor hybrid frame enables surgeons to treat complex fractures around the joints with both pins and long transfixing wires. This attribute is especially useful for patients with multipart fractures near the ankle and knee. The system features advanced composite materials and is compatible with the Hoffman II snap-fit connection devices. Spinal Implant Systems Through Stryker Spine, the Company develops, manufactures and markets spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spine injury, deformity and degenerative therapies. Spinal implant products include plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers and cages, along with proprietary implant instrumentation. In 2007 the Company introduced the Mantis minimally invasive access system for posterior instrumented spinal fusion and the Reflex Zero Profile anterior cervical plating system. In 2006 the Company introduced the VLIFT vertebral body replacement system consisting of a preassembled, cylindrically shaped titanium cage with a distractible or retractable center. The hollow core of the cage allows for packing bone graft. Also in 2006, Stryker launched the AVS AS and AL Spacers which are used as vertebral body support devices in anterior procedures. Other product lines include the Xia System, a top-loading pedicle screw system that addresses both simple and complex spinal conditions, as well as the OASYS fixation system that serves the posterior cervical fusion market. Stryker also offers the Reflex Hybrid anterior cervical plate and the AVS PL and TL vertebral spacer systems. The Reflex Hybrid features the ability to utilize both fixed and variable-angle screws. Craniomaxillofacial Implant Systems Through Stryker Osteosynthesis, the Company develops, manufactures and markets plating systems and related implants and products for craniomaxillofacial surgery. In 2006 Stryker introduced HydroSet, a self-setting calcium phosphate bone substitute that is indicated to fill certain bone voids or gaps of the skeletal system. Also in 2006, the Company launched DuraMatrix, a second-generation dura substitute technology, which is a conformable and resorbable membrane matrix engineered from highly purified type I collagen. In 2005 the Company extended its Universal Fixation System for craniomaxillofacial surgery with the addition of a facial trauma module. OP-1 Implant/BMP-7 More than two decades ago, Stryker saw the potential that orthobiologic products held for orthopaedics in an aging world and began a long-term investment in OP-1, initially focused on the bone growth properties of OP-1. OP-1 was originally discovered by Creative BioMolecules, Inc. (a company that subsequently merged into Curis, Inc.), with which Stryker funded a long-term development collaboration with a vision to develop the first molecules to stimulate tissue regeneration. Stryker's first therapeutic product, OP-1 Implant, is composed of recombinant human OP-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. OP-1 is a natural protein that the human body makes to induce bone formation. In preclinical studies, OP-1 induced the formation of new bone when implanted into bony defect sites. Stryker was the first company to enter clinical studies with a bone morphogenic protein, BMP-7 (or OP-1). Studies have been performed in two challenging clinical indications: first, in nonunion fractures of long bones, and second, in posterolateral spine fusions. - 11 - Based on clinical data from a large, controlled human study, Stryker received approval for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) from the FDA in 2001 for the use of OP-1 Implant as an alternative to autograft in recalcitrant long-bone nonunions where use of autograft is not feasible and alternative treatments have failed. An HDE, as defined by the FDA, is for a product intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the United States. As of December 31, 2007, Stryker had more than 600 hospital Institutional Review Board (IRB) approvals for OP-1 Implant in patients in the United States under this HDE. The Company has received market approvals from regulators in Europe and in Australia during 2001 as well as in Canada during 2002 for the indication of nonunion fractures of the tibia that failed prior autograft treatment or when autograft treatment is not feasible; for the treatment of long-bone nonunions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone formation; or for the clinical indication of long-bone nonunions, respectively. In the United States, Stryker received a further HDE in 2004 for revision posterolateral spine fusion following the completion of a pilot clinical study that indicated possible benefit of a new formulation of OP-1 known as OP-1 Putty. As of December 31, 2007, Stryker had approximately 700 hospital IRB approvals for OP-1 Putty in the United States under this HDE. Stryker is committed to the further development of OP-1 as an alternative to iliac crest bone graft for patients requiring spinal fusion using a variety of surgical techniques. Spinal fusion is used to stabilize the spine and improve patient outcomes postoperatively. The Company conducted a multicenter pivotal trial in the United States and Canada using OP-1 Putty in posterolateral lumbar spine fusion in the setting of degenerative spondylolisthesis. In 2003 the Company completed enrollment in this trial, and the final 2-year follow-up evaluation of the 297 enrolled patients was completed at the end of 2005. The results were analyzed and submitted to the FDA in 2006 as part of a PMA application for the use of OP-1 Putty in posterolateral lumbar spine fusion surgeries. The PMA is currently under review by the FDA. The Company continues to believe in the eventual approval of OP-1 for spinal fusion in the United States, though nearer-term timing cannot be predicted. Stryker also filed a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) for the posterolateral lumbar spine fusion indication in 2006. This application is currently under consideration. In 2006 Stryker filed an investigational device exemption (IDE) application with the FDA to start a clinical study in transforaminal lumbar interbody fusions using OP-1 Putty. The IDE was approved and patient recruitment was nearly completed in 2007. The Company has also begun planning a pivotal study for open tibial fractures. Stryker is also interested in exploring the cartilage regeneration properties of OP-1 and has successfully completed preclinical studies showing that OP-1 can stimulate new cartilage formation and increase disc height in animal models of degenerative disc disease. In 2005 Stryker filed its first Investigational New Drug (IND) application with the FDA to treat degenerative disc disease with a new injectable form of OP-1 in a dose-ranging study in humans. During 2007 and 2006, Stryker recruited patients into the dose-ranging clinical safety study for the first time use of BMP-7 to regenerate cartilage tissue. In 2006 Stryker filed an IND application with the FDA to treat osteoarthritis in the knee with the injectable form of OP-1. Following FDA concurrence in 2007, the Company proceeded with patient enrollment in the clinical study. - 12 - MedSurg Equipment MedSurg Equipment products include surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. These products are designed and manufactured by Stryker Instruments, Stryker Endoscopy and Stryker Medical. The Stryker Instruments and Stryker Endoscopy product portfolios include micro powered tools and instruments that are used in orthopaedics, functional endoscopic sinus surgery, neurosurgery, spinal surgery and plastic surgery. The Total Performance System (TPS) is a universal surgical system that can be utilized in several medical specialties. The TPS U2 Drill and TPS Burs are designed for use by spine surgeons and neurosurgeons, while the TPS MicroDriver and TPS Sagittal Saw are designed for use by sports physicians and plastic surgeons. The Elite attachment line with a proprietary extendable bur system and Saber Drill for ENT surgery further extend the TPS System into spine, neurosurgery and ENT applications. The TPS System also powers Stryker Endoscopy Shaver Systems. Surgical Equipment Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers a broad line of surgical, neurologic, ENT and interventional spine equipment that is used in surgical specialties for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone in small-bone orthopaedics, neurosurgical, spine and ENT procedures; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial implants. Stryker Instruments also manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories for use by orthopaedic, neurologic and small-bone specialists. In 2007 Stryker introduced the CORE Sumex drill, designed for use in ENT procedures, to further leverage the Company's Consolidated Operating Room Equipment (CORE) platform. The Sumex drill utilizes electronic torque feedback to increase RPM's when the drill is engaged in more demanding tasks. In addition, the Sumex drill incorporates a tapered front end to allow for better surgeon line of sight. In 2006 the Company introduced the Stryker Precision Oscillating Tip Saw. In contrast to standard surgical saws with oscillating blades, this innovative saw has a stationary blade shaft with an oscillating tip. This feature gives surgeons the opportunity for greater accuracy while simplifying cuts and reducing the potential for soft tissue damage. This saw represents an advance in procedural simplification, offering customers the potential for time and cost savings by reducing the number of steps in the surgical process. In 2006 the System 6 heavy duty, large-bone power system was released. This next-generation system, which includes several new attachments, is more powerful and has a longer battery life than its predecessor. The System 6 Rotary Handpieces provide more options to surgeons by allowing both high-speed drilling and high-torque reaming in one handpiece. System 6 Heavy Duty Saws provide increased torque for a faster and more efficient cut. In 2006 the Company launched the Silverglide Non-Stick bipolar forceps. These forceps rapidly diffuse heat, which eliminates localized sticking of tissue to the instrument and thus reduces bleeding in neurosurgery procedures. The introduction of the Maestro drill in 2005 expanded Stryker's line of micro powered instruments for spine, neurology and ENT applications. Employing the pneumatic technology that is the preference of many surgeons in these specialties, the Maestro drill leverages the Company's TPS and CORE platforms by using the same cutting attachments. The CORE platform console is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility offered by the TPS console platform and offers integrated irrigation, multihandpiece functionality and a standardized user interface. Stryker Instruments also produces products that are utilized in conjunction with joint replacement surgery. These products include the Revolution Cement Mixing System, designed to provide one solution for mixing all surgical cements, in addition to offering mixing efficacy, safety and ease of use; the Interpulse, a disposable, self- - - 13 - contained pulsed lavage system used by physicians to cleanse the surgical site during total joint arthroplasty; and the ConstaVac CBC II Blood Conservation System, a postoperative wound drainage and blood reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own blood rather than donor blood. In 2005 the Company advanced its postsurgical technology with the introduction of the Block Aid PainPump System. This one product provides site-specific pain management and also features a reprogrammable pump that is ideal for continuous nerve blocks. The Company also markets the PainPump2, a disposable system that offers electronically controlled flow rates of pain medication directly to the surgical site to help manage a patient's postoperative discomfort. This innovative design allows the physician to program the pump and provides a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) option, previously unavailable to the market in a disposable pump. To promote safety for patients and medical staff, Stryker works closely with hospitals and other healthcare organizations to develop a broad product portfolio. In 2005 Stryker introduced its next-generation Steri-shield T5 Personal Protection System, which advances its market-leading helmet, hood and gown to help protect operating room personnel from infection, cross-contamination and harmful microorganisms. This system employs advanced user-cooling features and provides the option for integrated communication and lighting systems. The Neptune Waste Management System represents Stryker's leading product for waste management in the operating room. The self-contained device, first introduced in 2000 and consistently improved, collects and disposes of fluid and smoke waste from surgical procedures, minimizing the need for operator intervention and therefore the risk of exposure to these waste products. In 2007 Stryker introduced the Neptune 2 Waste Management platform. This next-generation system allows for increased fluid collection capacity while enhancing end user system preferences based on surgical procedures. Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers SpinePlex, a variation of its surgical Simplex bone cement for applications in the treatment of vertebral compression fractures. In 2006 the Company introduced the Discmonitor Discography System, a disposable device used to inject fluid into the intervertebral disc nucleus during discography procedures. This system features a digital display and allows physicians to save key data points for each disc. Stryker's radiofrequency generator system for chronic pain management, originally introduced in 2004, was enhanced in 2006 with improved user interfaces, a simplified operating system and the expansion of the cannula and electrode offerings, including the industry's first monopolar nitinol electrode. Stryker also offers the Dekompressor, a single-use disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material, which offers an early, less invasive approach to mitigating back and leg pain associated with contained lumbar herniations. This product, along with Stryker's offerings in percutaneous cement delivery, discography and radiofrequency denervation, allows Stryker to focus on the interventional spine marketplace. Surgical Navigation Systems Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers a broad line of surgical navigation systems that give surgeons in several specialties the ability to use electronic imaging to see more clearly, better align instruments better and more accurately track where the instruments are relative to a patient's anatomy during surgical procedures. In 2006 Stryker released two groundbreaking navigation applications for the joint replacement and craniomaxillofacial implant markets. The eNdtrac ASM software and instrumentation give orthopaedic surgeons the option of navigating their cuts while eliminating the need to place additional pins in the femur and tibia outside of the surgical incision. The iNtellect software packages provide neurologic and ENT surgeons with enhanced graphics, a significantly simplified image import process, customizable procedure-specific workflows and user-friendly advanced tools for comprehensive planning and navigation. During 2005 the Company launched a number of new products across multiple surgical specialties to better serve the surgical navigation marketplace. For the knee implant market, eNact Knee 3.1 software was introduced, further simplifying the procedure via reactive workflow by leveraging Stryker's Smart Instrumentation and Camera technology. This unique technology promotes greater surgical efficiency because the software automatically reacts to a surgeon's individualized procedural workflow. To serve the implant instrumentation market, the Company introduced the OrthoLock Anchoring System, which allows for less invasive procedures and provides surgeons a choice of two- or three-pin tracker anchoring. Stryker also released two major advancements in its Neuro portfolio, Neuro 2.0 software and the Shunt Placement Tool. Neuro 2.0 provides - 14 - surgeons the option of utilizing the Company's Mask technology to register the patient without traditional fiducial markers and increases surgical efficiency by significantly reducing intraoperative patient registration time. In spine navigation, Spine 1.2 software was released for support of complex spine procedures, such as multiple-level scoliosis repair, requiring intraoperative 3D CT data. Also in 2005, a portable laptop navigation system was introduced; it has a smaller footprint in the surgical suite, is easily portable, is cost efficient and offers the functionality and technological advantages of Stryker's System II Cart. The Company also offers the Navigation System II Cart and Camera as well as Hip 2.0, Uni-knee and Knee 3.0 for use with the Stryker Navigation System. All of these product offerings are imageless platforms incorporating more intuitive hardware and software functions that result in greater ease of use, less invasive procedures and reduced surgical time. Endoscopic, Communications and Digital Imaging Systems Stryker Endoscopy develops, manufactures and markets medical video-imaging and communications equipment and instruments for arthroscopy, general surgery and urology. Stryker Endoscopy has established a position of leadership in the production of medical video-imaging technology and accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment to facilitate local and worldwide sharing of medical information among operating rooms, doctors' offices and teaching institutions. Products include medical video cameras, digital documentation equipment, digital image and viewing software, arthroscopes, laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, sports medicine instrumentation, radio frequency ablation systems, irrigation fluid management systems, i-Suite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for telemedicine and enterprise-wide connectivity. Stryker's line of rigid scopes, which range in diameter from 1.9 millimeters to 10 millimeters, contains a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics that, when combined with Stryker's high-definition (HD) camera systems, allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of clarity. In 2007 the Company launched the Stryker Digital Capture (SDC) Ultra, an all-in-one medical imaging information management system allowing for patient scheduling, video capture and storage, DVD burning and more. The SDC Ultra archives surgical images and videos on its 250-gigabyte internal hard drive. This system also allows for the recording of all surgical footage in high-definition video. Through dual-channel input support, the SDC Ultra can capture images and video independently on two separate video channels, in synchronized mode or in picture-in-picture format. Also in 2007 Stryker introduced the 45L PneumoSure insufflator which provides exceptional performance with enhanced safety and reliability. This new insufflator is designed to handle the needs of today's dynamic surgical environment and includes two additional modes for bariatric and vessel harvesting. The 45L PneumoSure insufflator offers real-time pressure sensing for increased accuracy during a procedure. Its ability to maintain pneumoperitoneum under the most extreme conditions, coupled with a fully integrated color touch screen, allows for increased ease of use. In 2006 the Company introduced the 1188 HD Camera, the next generation of Stryker 3-Chip HD Cameras. The 1188 HD offers superior picture quality, enhanced clarity and more intuitive user controls. This product provides surgical teams with improved visibility during endoscopic procedures, which can improve overall surgical and patient outcomes. In conjunction with the launch of the 1188 HD Camera, the Company also introduced complementary products, such as the X8000 Lightsource and Vision Elect Monitor, that feature improvements over earlier offerings. In 2004 Stryker introduced the first HD medical video 3-chip camera, the 1088 HD. To accommodate the recording of HD images, the Company introduced the SDC HD digital documentation system. Another milestone was the introduction of best-in-class scope technology with the U-500 FlexVision flexible ureteroscope. Also in 2004 Stryker launched its Formula shaver system, which is small, light and equipped with radio frequency identification (RFID), facilitating communication between the blade and console. In 2006 Stryker launched the Infinity II Communication Platform, featuring an intuitive customer interface and an open architecture. This second-generation model allows customers to run multiple PC - - 15 - applications from a single touch screen and to route HD digital signals through the industry's first digital video-imaging (DVI) board. In 2005 the Company acquired eTrauma, which expanded the Company's digital imaging equipment product offerings by adding eTrauma's proprietary PACS image management and viewing software. The PACS software was complemented by the 2005 launch of OrthoPad, Stryker's electronic medical records software. In 2006 Stryker launched Office PACS 3.4, which provides seamless integration between the clinic and the operating room. Patient Handling and Emergency Medical Equipment Stryker Medical is a leader in the stretcher products segment, offering a wide variety of stretchers customized to fit the needs of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities. In 2006 Stryker Medical introduced the ACS Stretcher, a value offering for the basic ambulatory surgery center market. In 2004 the Company launched a completely new concept in stretcher design, the M-Series Stretcher. With a focus on patient safety and product mobility, the M-Series features Stryker's Glideaway siderails, which provide maximum coverage when raised and a zero-transfer-gap when lowered; a 700-pound weight capacity; an integrated transfer board; and four-wheel, steel-ring brakes for stability. The M-Series provides customers with three different mobility options to suit their transportation needs: a fifth wheel for enhanced steering, Big Wheel technology for increased maneuverability and the self-propelled Zoom technology. All three mobility options provide a safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back injury for hospital staff. Stryker Medical also develops and manufactures beds and accessories that are designed to meet the unique needs of specialty departments within the acute care environment. In 2007 the Company introduced the InTouch, the first high-acuity care bed to combine advanced technology, intuitive operation and BackSmart ergonomics to the benefit of both patients and caregivers. The revolutionary touch screen interface provides the caregiver with new insights into patient metrics. Protocol reminders such as patient turn schedules are customizable to encourage best practices that have been proven to help improve patient outcomes. In 2005 Stryker introduced the XPRT nonintegrated sleep surface with low air loss, percussion and rotational functions to aid in the prevention and treatment of certain skin ulcers and pulmonary care. Stryker also offers the LD304 birthing bed, which features a removable foot section with the unique Lock-Rite System, and the Go Bed II medical/surgical bed, which features low bed-height for safe patient ingress and exit. The Go Bed II also offers the optional Chaperone center-of-gravity bed-exit system with Zone Control to help prevent patient falls. Zone Control is a feature that enables the caregiver to adjust the sensitivity of the bed-exit system to accommodate different patient needs. Stryker has a complete line of intensive care unit (ICU) beds for critical care and step-down units. The beds incorporate advanced features that facilitate patient care, such as in-bed scales that accurately weigh the patient regardless of bed position and a radiolucent surface that facilitates chest x-rays without moving the patient from the bed. To serve the prehospital market, the Company offers the MX-PRO BT ambulance cot with a weight capacity of 850 pounds for use in the emergency medical services transport market. To facilitate patient transport up and down stairs, Stryker offers the STAIR-PRO series of stair chairs. To better serve the emergency medical market, in 2006 Stryker introduced a customized version of the POWER-PRO ambulance cot, which was originally introduced in 2005. This new version extends the original design to carry transport incubators on both interfacility and intrafacility transports. The POWER-PRO ambulance cot is a revolutionary design with an advanced electronic/hydraulic lift system that enables emergency medical professionals to effortlessly raise and lower the cot with the press of a button, which helps prevent caregiver back injuries. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Most of the Company's products and product improvements have been developed internally. The Company maintains close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. New and improved products play a critical role in the Company's sales growth. The Company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary - 16 - products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. The Company has a decentralized research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for new product development and product improvements. Research, development and engineering personnel at the various manufacturing locations maintain relationships with staff at distribution locations and with customers to understand changes in the market and product needs. Total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were $375.3 million in 2007, $324.6 million in 2006 and $284.7 million in 2005. Research, development and engineering expenses represented 6.3% of sales in 2007, compared with 6.3% in 2006 and 6.2% in 2005. The higher spending level is the result of the Company's continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches and continued investments in new technologies. Recent new product introductions in the Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment segments are more fully described under the caption "Product Sales" on pages 6 through 16 of this report. In addition to internally developed products, the Company invests in technologies developed by third parties that have the potential to expand the markets in which the Company operates. Certain of these investments result in charges for purchased in-process research and development. The purchased in-process research and development charges of $52.7 million recorded in 2006 and $15.9 million recorded in 2005 relate to the acquisitions of Sightline and PlasmaSol, respectively. At the dates of these acquisitions, the technologies acquired from Sightline, a developer of flexible endoscopes, and PlasmaSol, a developer of sterilization equipment, had not yet reached technological feasibility. In 2004 the Company acquired SpineCore, a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs. Current products under development include the FlexiCore lumbar artificial disc and the CerviCore cervical artificial disc. FlexiCore is currently involved in a U.S. clinical study under an approved IDE granted by the FDA. Following completion of enrollment in the clinical study during 2005, a 2-year patient follow-up is ongoing. A PMA application for the FlexiCore disc was submitted in 2007. In 2007 Stryker completed enrollment in a U.S. clinical trial of the CerviCore disc replacement product. Submission of a PMA application utilizing the resulting data from this study is anticipated in 2009. The Company anticipates receiving CE Marking approval in Europe for the CerviCore disc in 2008. The Company believes that the technologies acquired in the Sightline, PlasmaSol and SpineCore acquisitions will result in the introduction of new products and additional future sales. However, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of these potential new products. Additionally, unanticipated issues may arise that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval or commercialization, which could have an unfavorable impact on the Company's operating results. As of December 31, 2007, the Company must refine certain product specifications highlighted during customer preference trials and validate manufacturing processes in order to achieve its plan for initial commercialization of the flexible endoscope technologies in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had not encountered significant issues and expects completion of the development and initial commercialization of the spinal disc implant technologies beginning in 2008 and the sterilization technology in 2010. In 2006 the Company opened a new facility to support product development activities across its manufacturing divisions. Located near Delhi, India, the facility will provide software and mechanical engineering resources for divisional Research & Development teams to accelerate new product innovation and it facilitates the development and testing of Stryker's internal systems. Over time, the facility will also support local markets in Asia to expand the Company's presence in that region. MARKETING Domestic sales accounted for 64% of total revenues in 2007. Most of the Company's products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities by approximately 3,500 sales and marketing personnel in the United States. Stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. - 17 - International sales accounted for 36% of total revenues in 2007. The Company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through more than 1,400 local dealers and direct sales efforts. Local dealer support and direct sales are coordinated by approximately 2,550 sales and marketing personnel. Stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in Africa, Bangladesh, the Balkans, China, the CIS (former Soviet Union), Cyprus, Czech Republic, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Latin America, the Middle East, Paraguay, the Philippines, Slovakia, Thailand, Turkey, Uruguay and Vietnam. Additional information regarding the Company's international and domestic operations and sales appears in "Note 12 - Segment and Geographic Data" on pages 64 through 66 of this report. The Company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. COMPETITION The Company is one of five leading competitors in the United States for orthopaedic reconstructive products. The four other leading competitors are DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Biomet, Inc., and Smith & Nephew plc. While competition abroad varies from area to area, the Company believes it is also a leading player in the international markets with these same companies as its principal competitors. In the trauma implant segment, Stryker is one of five leaders competing principally with Synthes, Inc., Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. In the spinal implant segment, the Company is one of five leaders, competing principally with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Synthes, Inc., and Zimmer Holdings, Inc. In the craniomaxillofacial implant segment, Stryker is one of four leaders, competing principally with Synthes, Inc., Walter Lorenz Surgical, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.), and KLS Martin L.P. Several companies are engaged in the research and development of products for the repair of hard and soft tissues that, if approved, would compete with the Company's OP-1 product. Medtronic Sofamor Danek has received FDA approval for its recombinant bone morphogenetic protein ("rhBMP-2") for certain spine, trauma and orthopaedic indications, including the treatment of acute, open fractures of the tibial shaft and spinal fusion surgeries. A number of companies currently provide various other therapies, including allografts, bone fillers and electrical stimulation devices for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. The Company believes that its OP-1 product, which is approved for limited trauma and spine indications in certain markets and is currently in clinical trials for other indications, will ultimately compete with these products and with traditional therapies, such as autograft and allograft. In the surgical equipment segment, Stryker is one of three leaders, competing principally with Medtronic Midas Rex, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), and Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of Conmed Corporation). These companies are also competitors in the international segments, along with Aesculap-Werke AG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), a large European manufacturer. In the surgical navigation segment, Stryker is one of six principal competitors, including Medtronic Surgical Navigation Technologies (a division of Medtronic, Inc.), BrainLAB Inc. (a subsidiary of BrainLAB AG), Aesculap AG & Co. KG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), Radionics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Tyco - 18 - International Ltd.), and GE Medical Systems Navigation and Visualization, Inc. (a subsidiary of General Electric Company). In the arthroscopy segment, the Company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors Smith & Nephew Endoscopy (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Linvatec, Inc., and Arthrex, Inc. In the laparoscopic imaging products segment, the Company is one of three leaders, together with the principal competitors, Karl Storz GmbH & Co. (a German company) and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. (a Japanese company). The Company's primary competitor in the patient handling segment is Hill-Rom Company, Inc. (a division of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc.). In the specialty stretcher segment, the primary competitors are Hausted, Inc. (a subsidiary of Steris Corporation), Hill-Rom Company, Inc., and Midmark Hospital Products Group (a subsidiary of Ohio Medical Instrument Company, Inc.). In the emergency medical services segment, Ferno-Washington, Inc., is the Company's principal competitor. The principal factors that the Company believes differentiate it in the highly competitive market segments in which it operates and enable it to compete effectively are innovation, reliability, service and reputation. The Company believes that its competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. While the Company does not consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or an attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. Patent protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. Stryker seeks to obtain patent protection on its products whenever possible. The Company currently owns approximately 1,020 United States patents and 1,320 international patents. MANUFACTURING AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY The Company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging and investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium. In addition, the Company is the sole manufacturer of its OP-1 product. Approximately 12% of the Company's cost of sales in 2007 represented finished products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers. The Company also purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations, such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of certain products. The principal raw materials used by the Company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys. In all, purchased parts and components from outside sources were approximately 51% of the total cost of sales in 2007. While the Company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed. The Company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production schedules. Substantially all products manufactured by the Company are stocked in inventory, while certain products manufactured within the Company's MedSurg Equipment segment are assembled to order. REGULATION AND PRODUCT QUALITY The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990, together with regulations issued or proposed thereunder, provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the Company's products. The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for the Company's product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the Company's facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the Company's products. - 19 - In 2007 the Company received two warning letters from the FDA regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in Cork, Ireland and another for its facility in Mahwah, New Jersey. The Company takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the FDA to address their observations. Most of the Company's new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing, submitted as a 510(k). The Company's FlexiCore and CerviCore artificial disc products and OP-1 products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by PMA applications for specific surgical indications. Stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical devices of each country in which the Company manufactures or sells products. The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain CE Marking for their products. Stryker has authorization to apply the CE Marking to substantially all of its products. The Company's OP-1 product has been considered a drug under the regulations for Europe, Australia and Japan. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare expenses generally and hospital costs in particular, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. It is not possible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on the Company's future business. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2007, the Company had 16,026 employees worldwide, including 6,643 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations; 6,138 in sales and marketing; 1,424 in research, development and engineering; and the balance in general management and administration. Certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually. The Company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Information regarding the executive officers of the Company appears under the caption "Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance" on pages 71 through 72 of this report. - 20 - ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the Company's business, financial condition or operating results. The Company may be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the Company or those which the Company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. The Company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating results. The Company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. The Company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. If the Company is unable to maintain these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved products could decrease, and future operating results could be unfavorably affected. The Company's inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating results. The talent and drive of the Company's employees are key factors in the success of its business. The Company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. If the Company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. Stricter pricing guidelines for the Orthopaedic Implants industry could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating results. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. The Company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the United States, Japan and certain other markets. Governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the Company's Orthopaedic Implant products. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage, or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the Company's future operating results. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. The Company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. Such marketplace changes may cause some of the Company's products to become obsolete. The Company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. If actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. The Company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. The Company believes these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales. However, factors including regulatory - - 21 - delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the introduction or marketing of new products. Additionally, unanticipated issues may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies, including those for additional OP-1 applications and the FlexiCore and CerviCore spinal implant products, that could delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval. The Company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper FDA approval or to successfully market these and other new products, including the Sightline flexible endoscope products and the PlasmaSol sterilization products. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements. The Company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. To partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the Company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to certain deductibles and loss limitations. While the Company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. Likewise, the Company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. In addition, such product liability settlements may negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. In 2007 the Company disclosed that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has made an informal inquiry of the Company regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries. Subsequently, in 2008, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal Division, requesting certain documents for the period January 1, 2000 through the present in connection with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry. In 2006 the Company announced that it received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents for the period January 2001 through the present regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violation of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. Stryker is fully cooperating with the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regarding these matters. In 2007 the Company reached a resolution with the U.S. Attorney's office for the District of New Jersey in connection with a previously announced investigation relating to "any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between Stryker Corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by Stryker Corporation." The resolution is in the form of a non-prosecution agreement for an 18-month period. During the term of the agreement, the Company's Orthopaedics subsidiary is subject to oversight by a federal monitor, as appointed by the U.S. Attorney, regarding compliance with certain standards and procedures in connection with the retention and payment of orthopaedic surgeon consultants related to reconstructive products and the provision of certain benefits to such surgeons. In 2007 the Company received two warning letters from the FDA regarding compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in Cork, Ireland and another for its facility in Mahwah, New Jersey. The Company takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the FDA to address their observations. As a result of these investigations, the Company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by settlements of these matters. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the Company does business. Future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or - 22 - changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations in each of the countries where the Company conducts business, including the United States. Additionally, the Company operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions and must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in significant income tax adjustments that could negatively impact the Company's future operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 