Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheets Consolidated Statements of Earnings Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Summary of Quarterly Data (Unaudited) Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 4 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Stryker Corporation (the Company or Stryker) is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose & throat (ENT) and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. Stryker also provides outpatient physical therapy services in the United States. Stryker was incorporated in Michigan in 1946 as the successor company to a business founded in 1941 by Dr. Homer H. Stryker, a leading orthopaedic surgeon and the inventor of several orthopaedic products. Stryker's filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, are accessible free of charge at www.stryker.com within the "For Investors" link. In the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company completed the repatriation of $722 million of foreign earnings under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act (the Act). The Act provided a temporary incentive for United States companies to repatriate accumulated income earned in foreign jurisdictions at a reduced income tax cost. The repatriated funds have been invested pursuant to an approved Domestic Reinvestment Plan that conforms to the Act. In the fourth quarter of 2005 the Company acquired, by merger, all of the outstanding stock of PlasmaSol Corp. (PlasmaSol). PlasmaSol has developed a technology that should allow Stryker to provide sterilization equipment for use with certain of its MedSurg Equipment products. In the first quarter of 2005, the Company acquired eTrauma.com Corp. (eTrauma). The acquisition expanded the Company's endoscopic and digital imaging equipment product offerings within its MedSurg Equipment segment by adding eTrauma's proprietary Picture Archive and Communications Systems (PACS) image management and viewing software. In the third quarter of 2004, the Company completed its acquisition, by merger, of SpineCore, Inc. (SpineCore), a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs. This acquisition is expected to enhance the Company's presence in the spinal implant market, an important growth area within its Orthopaedic Implants segment. The Company's Physiotherapy Associates, Inc., subsidiary has also purchased a number of physical therapy clinic operations during each of the last three years. PRODUCT SALES The Company segregates its operations into two reportable business segments: Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg Equipment. The Orthopaedic Implants segment sells orthopaedic reconstructive (hip, knee and shoulder), trauma, spinal and micro implant systems; bone cement; and the bone growth factor OP-1. The MedSurg Equipment segment sells surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications, and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. The Other category includes Physical Therapy Services and corporate administration, interest expense and interest income. The following amounts (in millions) and percentages represent business segment and domestic/international net sales during each of the three years ended December 31: 5 2005 2004 2003 $ % $ % $ % Business Segment Sales: Orthopaedic Implants $2,855.1 59% $2,562.5 60% $2,192.5 61% MedSurg Equipment 1,753.8 36 1,454.9 34 1,209.8 33 Physical Therapy Services 262.6 5 244.9 6 223.0 6 Total net sales $4,871.5 100% $4,262.3 100% $3,625.3 100% Domestic/international sales: Domestic $3,165.6 65% $2,753.0 65% $2,333.4 64% International 1,705.9 35 1,509.3 35 1,291.9 36 Total net sales $4,871.5 100% $4,262.3 100% $3,625.3 100% Additional financial information regarding the Company's operating segments and geographic areas can be found under the captions "Results of Operations" on pages 25 through 31 and "Note 12 - Segment and Geographic Data" on pages 57 through 59 of this report. Approximately 76% of the Company's sales in 2005 and 78% in 2004 and 2003 consisted of products with short lives, such as reconstructive, trauma, spinal and micro implant systems (while implants have a long useful life to the patient, they have a one-time use to the hospital); disposables and expendable tools; parts and service revenues, including service and repair charges; and physical therapy revenues. The balance of sales in each of the years came from products that could be considered capital equipment, having useful lives in excess of one year. The Company's backlog of firm orders is not considered material to an understanding of its business. Orthopaedic Implants Orthopaedic Implants are designed and manufactured by Stryker Orthopaedics, Stryker Osteosynthesis, Stryker Spine and Stryker Biotech and consist of such products as implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; bone cement; and the bone growth factor OP-1. Artificial joints are made of cobalt chromium, titanium alloys, ceramics or ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene and are implanted in patients whose natural joints have been damaged by arthritis, osteoporosis, other diseases or injury. The Company's OP-1 bone growth factor, which induces the formation of new bone when implanted into bone, is composed of recombinant human OP-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. Minimally Invasive Surgery Many of Stryker's technologically advanced reconstructive implants are suited to minimally invasive surgery (MIS) procedures that are intended to reduce soft-tissue damage and pain while hastening return to function. The Company supports surgeons with technology, procedural development and specialized instrumentation as they develop new MIS techniques. During 2003, the Company began the initial introduction of Scorpio Total Knee Minimally Invasive Instrumentation. This line of instruments is designed to complement the unique, minimally invasive total knee procedure pioneered by a leading orthopaedic surgeon. This technique can reduce the length of the incision by approximately 70%. Because of the Company's commitment to responsible science, a multicenter study was conducted to validate the technique's reproducibility and potential benefits, such as reduced pain and earlier return to function. The EIUS Unicondylar Knee and the Avon Patellofemoral Joint are resurfacing, bone-conserving designs that are used to treat disease isolated to one compartment of the knee. These pre-total knee treatment options can also be implanted using minimally invasive techniques. In order to facilitate emerging procedural approaches, the Company has also developed instrumentation for MIS total hip arthroplasty. The Company's surgical navigation systems are frequently used in MIS procedures to improve the accuracy of measurements and to position the implant. 6 Stryker Osteosynthesis has a market leadership position in the Intramedullary (IM) Hip Screw market due to the minimally invasive nature of the Gamma Nail. In 2004, Stryker launched a new version of the Gamma Nail that can be implanted through an even smaller incision. In addition, surgeons are testing the use of the Company's surgical navigation systems for this procedure as well as in surgery for pelvic fractures. Hip Implant Systems Through Stryker Orthopaedics, the Company offers a variety of hip implant systems for the global reconstructive market. The ABG Hip System, Partnership Hip System, Secur-Fit Hip System, Omnifit Hip System, Accolade Hip System and Restoration Hip System each represents a comprehensive system of hip implants and associated instrumentation designed to provide physicians and patients with reliable results and to reduce operating time for primary and revision procedures. The Exeter Total Hip System is based on a unique, collarless, highly polished, double-tapered femoral design that reduces shear stresses and increases compression at the cement/bone interface. During 2004, the Company began transitioning to its new Restoration Modular Revision Hip System in the United States, Europe, Australia and Canada. This system offers surgeons performing revision surgeries flexibility in treating complex stem revisions and restoring patient biomechanics. The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System also takes advantage of Stryker's long clinical history with hydroxylapatite (HA), a naturally occurring calcium phosphate material that demonstrates a high level of biocompatibility due to its resemblance to bone, by incorporating PureFix HA coating on many components. The Restoration Modular Revision Hip System complements the Company's existing Restoration HA and Restoration PS monolithic revision systems. Stryker was the first company to receive clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to commercially release for sale in the United States a hip implant with HA surface treatment. The Company's global clinical experience with HA-coated hip stems now extends over 15 years and reported clinical performance continues to equal or exceed that of comparable hip stems reported in the scientific literature. Following the clinical success of its Crossfire technology, a highly crosslinked polyethylene designed to reduce wear, Stryker launched X3 Polyethylene in 2005. X3 Polyethylene is the Company's next-generation highly crosslinked polyethylene and features a higher level of strength and wear reduction in both hip and knee replacements. The Company began a limited launch of its CentPillar Hip System in the Japanese market in 2003, with a full rollout in 2004. The Taro Hip System and CentPillar Hip System provide lines of products that offer an increased range of motion and a minimally invasive technique preferred by Japanese surgeons for their patients. On February 3, 2003, the Company received premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA for its ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement system, the Trident Ceramic Acetabular Insert, for patients in the United States. Stryker Orthopaedics successfully launched the Trident ceramic insert in the United States in the second quarter of 2003 following successful launches in Europe, Australia and Canada. The Trident insert is wear resistant, and it is protected and strengthened by a patented titanium sleeve. Other technologies used for total hip replacement include metal-on-conventional polyethylene and metal-on-highly crosslinked polyethylene articulations. The Company entered 2006 with more than 30 years of clinical history with the Exeter Hip System, more than 20 years of clinical history with the Omnifit cemented stem and 15 years of clinical history with the Omnifit HA stem. Long-term clinical results are an important factor in the Company's ability to market hip implants. Knee Implant Systems The Company offers six major knee implant systems under the Stryker brand name: the Duracon, Kinemax, EIUS, Global Modular Replacement System (GMRS), Scorpio and Triathlon systems. Introduced in 1991 and utilized in more than 500,000 procedures worldwide, the Duracon system combines high levels of joint conformity throughout the range of motion and consistent anatomic tracking. The DuraconTS and ScorpioTS Revision systems and Modular Rotating Hinge, which were introduced in 1999 and 2001, respectively, completed the product line offerings with implants for complex revision procedures. 7 Launched on a limited basis in the United States and Europe in 2004, the Triathlon Knee system represents the Company's evolutionary design that has been developed to more closely reproduce natural knee motion and is designed to provide mobility with stability through more than 150 degrees of flexion. In 2005, the Company launched a posterior-stabilized version of the Triathlon knee following the launch of the cruciate-retaining version in 2004. During 2005, the Company continued its launch of the Triathlon Knee system on a worldwide basis throughout the United States and Europe and into Canada and the Pacific region. The state-of-the-art Triathlon Knee instrumentation is designed to improve operating room efficiency through a streamlined, integrated system providing options and flexibility to meet surgeons' varying preferences and multiple surgical techniques. Launched in 2003, the GMRS is a global product that offers a comprehensive solution for severe bone loss in oncology, trauma and revision surgery patients. GMRS has tibial and femoral components, including a total femur, and a modular rotating hinge knee. The system employs both titanium and cobalt chrome alloys for strength and lightness of weight, together with the superior flexibility of the hinge. The MRS system, the predecessor to the GMRS, was the first modular segmental replacement system and its components have maintained a leadership role in this market segment since the system's introduction in 1988. The Kinemax system is focused in markets outside the United States and offers versatility through design principles based on the clinically successful Total Condylar and Kinematic Knee Systems. Precision-designed Monogram instruments provide a common instrument platform for the Duracon and Kinemax knee systems. The Scorpio knee implant design is based on the epicondylar axis of the knee. This patented approach addresses significant clinical issues, such as improved patient rehabilitation and midflexion stability, through an increase in the patella-femoral moment arm and a single anterior-posterior radius. The Scorpio Plus Mobile Bearing tibial component was launched in markets outside the United States in 2001 and a clinical trial in the United States is ongoing. This addition to the Scorpio line provides a competitive entry into the growing, mobile-bearing market segment. The ScorpioFlex, which is available for both posterior cruciate-retaining and cruciate-substituting indications, is specifically designed for patients who have the ability and motivation to return to high-flexion activities such as gardening and golfing. ScorpioFlex has also enjoyed success in Japan, where it is sold under the trade name Scorpio SuperFlex. The Scorpio system is supported by the Passport instrumentation system, which was designed to provide intraoperative flexibility and precision as well as a simple, cost-effective approach to total knee replacement surgery. The EIUS Unicondylar Knee replacement system is designed for the growing minimally invasive knee surgery market segment. This system marries bone-sparing femoral and tibial implants with sophisticated instrumentation and a surgical technique aimed at reducing rehabilitation time for patients. Other Joint Replacement Products The Company markets other joint replacement products, principally shoulder and elbow implants and related instruments, under the Stryker brand name. The Solar Total Shoulder System provides a unique design for the humeral head that allows the surgeon to adjust tension of the supporting tissues while maximizing range of motion. The shoulder instruments offer the surgeon increased visibility and access to this tightly confined joint space. The Solar BiPolar Shoulder provides the surgeon with additional options for addressing rotator cuff arthropathy arthritis of the shoulder and is designed with the patented bipolar locking mechanism that is also used in the Company's hip implants. The Solar Shoulder product line gives the surgeon increased intraoperative flexibility to restore the patient's shoulder kinematics. The Solar Total Elbow complements products offered for upper extremity procedures. The semiconstrained design and modular components address varying types of patient anatomy. 8 Bone Cement Simplex bone cement, a material used to secure cemented implants to bone, was first approved for orthopaedic use in the United States in 1971 and is the most widely used bone cement in the world. The Company manufactures and provides several variations of Simplex bone cement to meet specific patient needs. Simplex has more than 40 years of clinical history, the longest of any bone cement, with more than 400 published clinical papers. In 2003, Stryker received FDA clearance to market Simplex P with Tobramycin, a preblended antibiotic bone cement. Simplex P with Tobramycin, which has been on the market in Europe since 2000, is indicated in the United States for patients who are undergoing the second stage of a two-stage revision for a total joint procedure. Trauma Implant Systems Through Stryker Osteosynthesis, the Company develops, manufactures and markets its trauma implant systems. Trauma products, including nailing, plating, hip fracture and external fixation systems, are used primarily in the fixation of fractures resulting from sudden injury. These products consist of internal fixation devices marketed under such names as Gamma, Grosse & Kempf, Omega, Dall-Miles, Asnis, T2 and S2, along with external fixation devices marketed under the Apex, Hoffmann II and Monotube Triax names. The Company's internal fixation product portfolio includes a full array of intramedullary nails, hip fracture devices and plates and screws in both titanium and stainless steel. These trauma products complement the total hip and knee replacement offerings mentioned above by offering a restorative option in addition to total replacement. To address the hip trauma and fracture segment, the Company markets several products, including the IM nail portfolio, led by the T2 Nailing System; the Gamma Nail, a unique IM nail for trochanteric fractures; the Omega hip screw system; the Asnis Cannulated Screw System; and the Hansson pin system, providing a complete offering of surgical solutions for the hip trauma patient. These hip fracture systems offer orthopaedic surgeons multiple options depending on their preferences and patient needs. The T2 Nailing System includes femoral, tibial and humeral components with a common instrument platform for accuracy and ease of use. Building on the success of this titanium nail, the Company introduced the stainless steel S2 tibial and femoral nails in 2003. The S2 nails are designed to meet the needs of Level 1 trauma centers in the United States as well as broadening the Stryker product line in the rest of the world. Following an initial release in selected markets during 2003, the Gamma3 intramedullary hip fracture nail was fully launched during 2004 in the United States, Japan and throughout Europe. The Gamma3 is based on more than 15 years of Gamma Nail experience and is the third generation of IM short and long Gamma fixation nails. The new Gamma3 system is designed to facilitate minimally invasive surgery and reduce surgery time through the use of newly designed implants and new instrumentation. The Asnis Cannulated Screw System can help simplify the operative procedure through features that allow the surgeon to place, insert and remove locking screws easily. To address the knee trauma segment, Stryker offers the Hoffman II Modular Fixation System and the T2 SCN Nailing System. The Hoffman II knee-bridging frame is used to stabilize injuries to the knee until definitive treatment with a plate, nail or reconstruction option takes place. In addition, Stryker offers the T2 SCN Nail, which can be used for definitive treatment of supracondylar femur fractures just above the knee joint. This nail can also be used for periprosthetic fracture fixation for traumatic fractures in patients who have already had a joint replacement. Stryker has four product lines for upper extremity trauma. The Numelock II Polyaxial Locked Plating system is the only comprehensive, upper extremity, polyaxial periarticular fracture fixation system on the market. The recently introduced T2 Proximal Humeral Nail has been very well received and offers a minimally invasive option for fractures of the humerus. The Universal Distal Radius Set complements the stainless steel Numelock II with a titanium option in distal radius plates and screws. The Universal Distal Radius Set offers a wide array of precontoured, variable-sized plates for volar, distal and column approaches and both open reduction and internal fixation techniques. 9 The Company's external fixation products also include the Hoffmann II Compact, the Monotube Triax monolateral system, the TenXor circular fixation system for complex fractures and a complete range of pins and wires for attaching the devices to fractured bones. The Hoffmann II Compact for upper extremity fractures includes a patented snap-fit mechanism that makes it easy for the surgeon to construct the fixation device to fit the patient and align the fractured bones, and it includes a full selection of lightweight radiolucent connection bars that allow for quick intraoperative fracture repair. The Monotube Triax system is available in three different sizes and includes an adjustable feature that enables the surgeon to not only stabilize fractures, but also to lengthen the bone in cases where bone has been removed due to damage. The TenXor hybrid frame enables a surgeon to treat complex fractures around the joints with both pins and long transfixing wires. This attribute is especially useful for patients with multipart fractures near the ankle and knee. The system features advanced composite materials and is compatible with the Hoffman II snap-fit connection devices. Spinal Implant Systems Through Stryker Spine, the Company develops, manufactures and markets spinal implant products including cervical, thoracolumbar and interbody systems used in spine injury, deformity and degenerative therapies. Spinal implant products comprise plates, rods, screws, connectors, spacers and cages, along with proprietary implant instrumentation. In 2004, Stryker introduced OASYS, a new fixation system developed to serve posterior cervical fusion, an emerging area of spinal surgery. The product was introduced in the United States following a successful launch in the European market during 2003. Also in 2004, Stryker introduced the Reflex Hybrid anterior cervical plate and the AVS vertebral spacer system. The Reflex Hybrid features the ability to utilize both fixed and variable angle screws. The AVS PL spacers represented Stryker's initial product offering in the vertebral spacer category. In 2004, the Company acquired SpineCore, a developer of artificial lumbar and cervical discs. Current products under development include the FlexiCore lumbar artificial disc and the CerviCore cervical artificial disc. FlexiCore is currently involved in a U.S. clinical study under an approved investigational device exemption (IDE) granted by the FDA. Following the completion of enrollment in the clinical study during 2005, a 2-year patient follow-up is ongoing prior to submission of a PMA application to the FDA. Submission of a PMA application for the FlexiCore disc is currently expected to occur as early as 2007. During 2005, the Company received clearance in Australia and CE mark approval in Europe for the FlexiCore implant. Also in 2005, Stryker received conditional approval for a U.S. trial of the CerviCore cervical disc replacement and began to enroll patients in an approved IDE clinical study. Submission of a PMA application utilizing the resulting data from this study is anticipated in 2009. In 2003, Stryker extended the Xia Spinal System by adding a new, low-profile hook system and additional components for anterior fixation. Stryker Spine's other products include Xia Titanium, Xia Stainless Steel, Diapason, Opus, OIC, Solis and the Stabilis Systems. The Xia Stainless Steel System, an offering within the Xia Spinal System, is designed to better serve deformity correction requirements, while the Xia Titanium System is a broad spectrum of posterior implants designed to relieve pain by stabilizing the spine in the thoracic, lumbar and sacral regions. It is accompanied by instrumentation that simplifies the surgical procedures. Diapason and Opus represent the original Stryker "Ball Ring Technology" that has been on the market for over 10 years. Launched in international markets, the OIC, Solis and Stabilis systems are novel interbody fusion devices designed to improve stability and alignment during fusion. Micro Implant Systems Through Stryker Osteosynthesis, the Company develops, manufactures and markets plating systems and related implants for craniomaxillofacial and hand surgery. In 2005, the Company extended its Universal Fixation System for craniomaxillofacial surgery with the addition of a facial trauma module. This introduction follows the addition, in 2004, of a cranial/neurological application system and a distal radius fixation system for the hand surgery market. In 2003, the Company extended the Universal Fixation System with the launch of the Midface System. Also in 2003, BoneSource Classic was introduced, representing an advance in Stryker's BoneSource line of products to include HA. In addition, the Profyle System offers a wide range of titanium plates and screws for hand surgery. 10 OP-1 More than two decades ago, Stryker saw the potential that orthobiologic products held for orthopaedics in an aging world and began a long-term investment in OP-1, a proprietary, recombinant version of a signaling protein with multiple tissue regeneration properties. Initial interest focused on the bone growth properties of OP-1. OP-1 was originally discovered by Creative BioMolecules, Inc. (a company that subsequently merged into Curis, Inc.) with which Stryker funded a long-term development collaboration with a vision to develop the first molecules to stimulate tissue regeneration. Stryker's first therapeutic product, OP-1 Implant, is composed of recombinant human OP-1 and a bioresorbable collagen matrix. OP-1 is a natural protein that the human body makes to induce bone formation. In preclinical studies, OP-1 induced the formation of new bone when implanted into bony defect sites. Stryker was the first company to enter clinical studies with a bone morphogenic protein, BMP-7 (or OP-1). Studies have been performed in two challenging clinical indications: first, in nonunion fractures of long bones, and second, in revision posterolateral spine fusion. In 2001, Stryker received approval for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) from the FDA. This approval in the United States is for the use of OP-1 Implant as an alternative to autograft in recalcitrant long-bone nonunions where use of autograft is not feasible and alternative treatments have failed. An HDE, as defined by the FDA, is for a product intended to benefit patients by treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects fewer than 4,000 individuals per year in the United States. As of December 31, 2005, Stryker had more than 700 hospital Institutional Review Board (IRB) approvals for OP-1 Implant in patients in the United States under this HDE. The Company has received market approvals from regulators in Europe, Australia and Canada for the indication of nonunion fractures of the tibia that failed prior to autograft treatment or when autograft treatment is not feasible; for the treatment of long-bone nonunions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone formation; or for the clinical indication of long-bone nonunions. The Company filed a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the European Medicines Evaluation Agency (EMEA) for certain OP-1 uses, and the MAA was accepted for filing in July 1999. On December 14, 2000, the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (CPMP) in Europe voted unanimously to recommend market authorization for OP-1 Implant (marketed in Europe under the name Osigraft) for the indication of nonunions of the tibia that failed prior autograft treatment or when autograft is not feasible. Final European approval was obtained for this indication in May 2001. A New Drug Application with the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) in Australia was filed in December 1999, and in February 2001 the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee (ADEC) recommended the granting of marketing authorization for OP-1 for treatment of long-bone nonunions secondary to trauma for the purpose of initiating new bone formation. Approval from the TGA was received in April 2001. In February 2002, the Company received approval to market OP-1 in Canada for the clinical indication of long-bone nonunions. Most recently, Switzerland granted approval to market a form of OP-1 in 2004 for the clinical indication of nonunion tibial fractures. With this unique set of global approvals, the Company began to market OP-1. During the past 4 years, the increase in the number of patients treated has demonstrated the success of the sales effort and the trust that surgeons have developed in the product based on favorable patient outcomes. In the United States, Stryker Biotech received a further HDE in May 2004 for revision posterolateral spine fusion following the completion of a pilot clinical study that indicated possible benefit of a new formulation of OP-1, known as OP-1 Putty, for this application. As of December 31, 2005, Stryker had more than 400 hospital IRB approvals for OP-1 Putty in the United States under this HDE. Demand for OP-1 Implant and OP-1 Putty continued to increase during each quarter of 2005. Stryker is committed to the further development of OP-1 for spinal indications, including spinal stenosis. This degenerative condition, which is widespread in the over-65 population, causes severe pain in the lower back and legs as a result of abnormal movement in the lower spine. Spinal fusion is used to stabilize the spine and reduce stenotic pain. Fusing the spine with OP-1 can eliminate the need for painful additional surgery to harvest bone from the patient's hip to use in the fusion process. 11 Currently, the Company is conducting a multicenter pivotal trial in the United States and Canada for posterolateral spine fusion using the new product, OP-1 Putty, to treat degenerative spondylolisthesis. In 2003 the Company completed enrollment in this trial. The final 2-year follow-up evaluation of the 297 enrolled patients was completed at the end of 2005, and the data from this study is being evaluated and would be part of an anticipated PMA filing planned for the first half of 2006. Stryker is also interested in exploiting the cartilage regeneration properties of OP-1 and has successfully completed preclinical studies showing that OP-1 can stimulate new cartilage formation and increase disc height in animal models of degenerative disc disease. In 2005, Stryker filed its first Investigational New Drug (IND) application with the FDA to treat degenerative disc disease with OP-1 in a dose-ranging study in humans. MedSurg Equipment MedSurg Equipment products include surgical equipment; surgical navigation systems; endoscopic, communications and digital imaging systems; and patient handling and emergency medical equipment. These products are designed and manufactured by Stryker Instruments, Stryker Endoscopy and Stryker Medical. The Stryker Instruments and Stryker Endoscopy product portfolios include micro-powered tools and instruments that are used in orthopaedics, functional endoscopic sinus surgery, neurosurgery, spinal surgery and plastic surgery. The Total Performance System (TPS) is a universal surgical system that can be utilized within several medical specialties. The TPS U2 Drill and TPS Burs are designed for use by spine surgeons and neurosurgeons, while the TPS MicroDriver and TPS Sagittal Saw are designed for use by sports physicians and plastic surgeons. The Elite attachment line with a proprietary extendable bar system and Saber Drill for ENT surgery further extend the TPS system in spine, neurosurgery and ENT applications. The TPS System also powers Stryker Endoscopy Shaver Systems. Surgical Equipment Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers a broad line of surgical, neurological, ENT and interventional pain equipment that is used by all surgical specialties for drilling, burring, rasping or cutting bone in small bone orthopaedics, neurosurgical, spine and ENT procedures; wiring or pinning bone fractures; and preparing hip or knee surfaces for the placement of artificial implants. Stryker Instruments also manufactures an array of different attachments and cutting accessories for use by orthopaedic, neurological and small-bone specialists. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Stryker acquired PlasmaSol. PlasmaSol has developed a technology that should allow Stryker to provide sterilization equipment for use with certain of its MedSurg Equipment products. The Company is currently working to advance the technology towards a commercial application prior to obtaining necessary approvals from the FDA for sale of the final product. The introduction of the Maestro drill in 2005 expanded Stryker's line of micro powered instruments for spine, neurology and ENT applications. Employing the pneumatic technology that is the preference of many surgeons in these specialties, the Maestro drill leverages the Company's TPS and CORE platforms by using the same cutting attachments. In 2004, Stryker launched the CORE electric console for use with its line of CORE powered instruments. The CORE platform console is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility offered by the TPS console platform and offers integrated irrigation, multi-handpiece functionality and a standardized user interface. In 2003, Stryker launched the CORE platform of micro-powered surgical instruments in the U.S. market. This platform includes specialty-driven handpieces, including those for spine and neurosurgery procedures, providing increased power and torque, greater speed and precision cutting. The CORE platform is a technological advancement on the precision and versatility offered by the TPS platform. 12 Stryker Instruments also produces products that are utilized in conjunction with joint replacement surgery. In 2004, Stryker introduced the Revolution Cement Mixing System, representing an improved design over its existing Advanced Cement Mixing System. The Revolution system is designed to provide one solution for mixing all surgical cements, in addition to offering mixing efficacy, safety and ease of use. Interpulse is a disposable, self-contained pulsed lavage system that is used by physicians to cleanse the surgical site during total joint arthroplasty. The ConstaVac CBC II Blood Conservation System is a postoperative wound drainage and blood reinfusion device that enables joint replacement patients to receive their own blood rather than donor blood. In 2005, the Company advanced its postsurgical technology with the introduction of the Block Aid PainPump System. This device enables one product to meet the needs of both site specific pain management and surgical site regional anesthesia. The Company also markets the PainPump2, a disposable system that offers electronically controlled flow rates of pain medication directly to the surgical site to help manage a patient's postoperative discomfort. This innovative design allows the physician to program the pump and provides a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) option, previously unavailable to the market in a disposable pump. In 2003, Stryker made product improvements to the PainPump2, allowing the pump to be programmed to extend continuous peripheral nerve blockage during surgery and provide non-narcotic pain management following the procedure. As part of a broad surgical product portfolio, Stryker works closely with hospitals and other health-care organizations to promote safety for patients and medical staff. In 2005, Stryker introduced its next-generation Sterishield T5 Personal Protection System, which advances its market-leading helmet, hood and gown to help provide protection for operating room personnel from infection, cross contamination and harmful microorganisms. This system employs advanced user-cooling features and provides the option for integrated communication and lighting systems. The Neptune Waste Management System represents Stryker's leading product for waste management in the operating room. The self-contained device, first introduced in 2000 and consistently improved, collects and disposes of fluid and smoke waste from surgical procedures, minimizing the need for operator intervention and, therefore, the risk of exposure to these waste products. In 2004, the Company introduced the Neptune Bronze platform, which provides a low-cost alternative to its operating room waste management solution. Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers SpinePlex, a variation of its surgical Simplex bone cement for applications in both vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty. In 2004, Stryker also introduced a next-generation radiofrequency system for chronic pain management that greatly enhances the user interface while simplifying the system operation. In 2002, Stryker acquired the Dekompressor product line from Pain Concepts Inc. The Dekompressor is a single-use disposable device indicated for the percutaneous removal of disc nucleus material, offering an early, less invasive approach to mitigating back and leg pain associated with contained lumbar herniations. This important advance in lumbar disc pain management, along with Stryker's offerings in Percutaneous Cement Delivery and Radiofrequency Denervation, allows Stryker to focus on the Interventional Pain Management marketplace. Surgical Navigation Systems Through Stryker Instruments, the Company offers a broad line of surgical navigation systems that offer surgeons in several specialties the ability to use electronic imaging to see more clearly, align instruments better and accurately track where the instruments are relative to the patient's anatomy during surgical procedures. During 2005 the Company launched a number of new products across multiple surgical specialties to better serve the surgical navigation marketplace. To serve the knee implant market, eNact Knee 3.1 software was introduced, further simplifying the procedure via reactive workflow by leveraging Stryker's Smart Instrumentation and Camera technology. This unique feature promotes greater surgical efficiency because the software automatically reacts to the surgeon's individualized procedural workflow. To serve the implant instrumentation market, the Company introduced the OrthoLock Anchoring System, which allows for less invasive procedures and provides the surgeon a choice between two and three pin tracker anchoring. Also introduced was the Ortho Grip Knee Pointer, which allows the surgeon to utilize an ergonomically designed pistol grip instrument during the implant registration process. Stryker also released two major advancements in its Neuro portfolio with Neuro 2.0 software and the Shunt Placement Tool. Neuro 2.0 provides the surgeon with the option of utilizing the Company's Mask technology to register the patient without traditional fiducial markers and increases surgical efficiency by 13 significantly reducing intraoperative patient registration time. The Shunt Placement Tool provides a higher degree of accuracy for one of the most common neurosurgical procedures by utilizing a dedicated instrument and corresponding software designed specifically for the procedure. In Spine Navigation, Spine 1.2 software was released for support of complex spine procedures, such as multiple-level scoliosis repair, requiring intraoperative 3D CT data. Also in 2005, a portable laptop Navigation system was introduced that has a smaller footprint in the surgical suite, is easily portable, is cost efficient and offers the functionality and technological advantages of Stryker's System II Cart. The Company launched the Navigation System II Cart and Camera as well as Hip 2.0, Uni-knee, and Knee 3.0 for use with the Stryker Navigation System in 2004. All of these new product offerings are imageless platforms incorporating more intuitive hardware and software functions that result in increased ease of use, less invasive procedures and reduced surgical time. Endoscopic, Communications and Digital Imaging Systems Stryker Endoscopy produces and markets medical video-imaging and communications equipment and instruments for arthroscopy, general surgery and urology. Stryker Endoscopy has established a position of leadership in the production of medical imaging video technology and accessories for minimally invasive surgery, as well as communications equipment to facilitate local and worldwide sharing of medical information between operating rooms, doctors' offices and teaching institutions. Products include medical video cameras, digital documentation equipment, digital image and viewing software, arthroscopes, laparoscopes, powered surgical instruments, sports medicine instrumentation, radio frequency ablation systems, irrigation fluid management systems, i-Suite operating room solutions and state-of-the-art equipment for telemedicine and enterprise-wide connectivity. Stryker's line of rigid scopes, which range in diameter from 1.9 millimeters to 10 millimeters, contains a series of precision lenses as well as fiber optics that, when combined with Stryker's high-definition (HD) camera systems, allow the physician to view internal anatomy with a high degree of clarity. In 2005, the Company acquired eTrauma. The acquisition expanded the Company's endoscopic and medical video imaging equipment product offerings by adding eTrauma's proprietary Picture Archive and Communications System (PACS) image management and viewing software. The PACS software was complemented by the 2005 launch of OrthoPad, Stryker's electronic medical records software. In 2004, Stryker introduced the next-generation 3-chip camera, the 1088HD, bringing high-definition video to the operating room. To accommodate the recording of high-definition images, the Company introduced the Stryker Digital Capture (SDC) HD digital documentation system. Another milestone was the introduction of best-in-class scope technology with the U-500 FlexVision flexible ureteroscope. Stryker also launched its Formula shaver system, which is small, light and equipped with radio frequency identification (RFID), facilitating communication between the blade and console. In 2003, Stryker extended its market-leading 988 Digital 3-Chip camera by introducing a fully autoclavable model for more efficient sterilization. The 3-Chip cameras continue to provide multispecialty video imaging through several product generations. In addition, the Company introduced the Stryker Integrated Delivery Network (SIDNE), a voice-activated operating room network, in 2003. Patient Handling and Emergency Medical Equipment Stryker Medical is a leader in the stretcher products segment, offering a wide variety of stretchers customized to fit the needs of acute care and specialty surgical care facilities. In 2004, Stryker Medical launched a completely new concept in stretcher design, the M-Series Stretcher. With a focus on patient safety and product mobility, the M-Series features Stryker's Glideaway siderails, which provide maximum coverage when raised and a zero-transfer-gap when lowered; a 700-pound weight capacity; an integrated transfer board; and four-wheel, steel-ring brakes for stability. The M-Series provides customers with three different mobility options to suit their transportation needs: a fifth wheel for enhanced steering, Big Wheel technology for increased maneuverability and the self-propelled Zoom technology. All three mobility options provide a safe and comfortable surface for patients while reducing the risk of back injury for hospital staff. 14 Stryker also produces beds and accessories that are designed to fit the unique needs of specialty departments within the acute care environment. In 2005, Stryker introduced the XPRT nonintegrated sleep surface with low air loss, percussion and rotational functions to aid in the prevention and treatment of certain ulcers and pulmonary care. To better serve the emergency medical market, Stryker introduced the revolutionary POWER-PRO ambulance cot in 2005. Its advanced electronic/hydraulic lift system enables emergency medical professionals to effortlessly raise and lower the cot with the press of a button, which helps mitigate caregiver back injuries. In 2004, Stryker introduced the LD304 birthing bed, which features a removable foot section with the unique Lock-Rite system. Also introduced in 2004 was the Go Bed II medical/surgical bed that features low bed-height for safe patient ingress and exit. The Go Bed II also offers the optional Chaperone center-of-gravity bed-exit system with Zone Control to help prevent patient falls. Zone Control is a feature that enables the caregiver to adjust the sensitivity of the bed-exit system to accommodate different patient needs. Stryker has a complete line of ICU beds for critical care and step-down units. The beds incorporate advanced features that facilitate patient care, such as in-bed scales that accurately weigh the patient regardless of bed position and a radiolucent surface that facilitates chest x-rays without moving the patient from the bed. The Company's legacy of innovation in the prehospital market continued in 2004 with the launch of the MX-PRO BT ambulance cot with a weight capacity of 850 pounds for use in the emergency medical services transport market. To facilitate patient transport up and down stairs, Stryker offers the STAIR-PRO series of stair chairs. Other The Other category includes Physical Therapy Services. Physiotherapy Associates provides physical, occupational and speech therapy services to patients recovering from orthopaedic or neurological illness and injury through a network of 488 outpatient physical therapy centers in 28 states and the District of Columbia. Physiotherapy Associates works closely with referring physicians to design and execute rehabilitation protocols with the goal of quick recoveries for injured workers, athletes and other patients. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Most of the Company's products and product improvements have been developed internally. The Company maintains close working relationships with physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. New and improved products play a critical role in the Company's sales growth. The Company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. The Company has a decentralized research and development focus, with manufacturing locations responsible for new product development and product improvements. Research, development and engineering personnel at the manufacturing locations maintain relationships with staff at distribution locations and with customers to understand changes in the market and product needs. Total expenditures for product research, development and engineering were $279.8 million in 2005, $211.0 million in 2004 and $180.2 million in 2003. Research, development and engineering expenses represented 5.7% of sales in 2005, compared with 5.0% of sales in both 2004 and 2003. The higher spending level is the result of the Company's continued focus on new product development for anticipated future product launches and continued investments in new technologies, together with, beginning in the third quarter of 2004, spending associated with the continued development of products acquired in the SpineCore acquisition. Recent new product introductions in the Orthopaedic Implants and MedSurg segments are more fully described under the caption "Product Sales" on pages 4 through 14 of this report. 15 MARKETING Domestic sales accounted for 65% of total revenues in 2005. Most of the Company's products are marketed directly to more than 6,000 hospitals and to other health-care facilities and doctors by approximately 2,800 sales and marketing personnel in the United States. Stryker primarily maintains separate and dedicated sales forces for each of its principal product lines to provide focus and a high level of expertise to each medical specialty served. International sales accounted for 35% of total revenues in 2005. The Company's products are sold in more than 100 countries through more than 1,450 local dealers and direct sales efforts. Local dealer support and direct sales are coordinated by approximately 2,100 sales and marketing personnel. Stryker distributes its products through sales subsidiaries and branches with offices located in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. Stryker exports products to dealers and to customers in Africa, Bangladesh, China, the CIS (former Soviet Union), Cyprus, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Korea, Latin America, the Middle East, the Philippines, Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam. Additional information regarding the Company's international and domestic operations and sales appears in "Note 12 - Segment and Geographic Data" on pages 57 through 59 of this report. The Company's business is generally not seasonal in nature; however, the number of orthopaedic implant surgeries is lower during the summer months. COMPETITION The Company is one of five leading competitors in the United States for orthopaedic reconstructive products. The four other leading competitors are DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Biomet, Inc., and Smith & Nephew plc. While competition abroad varies from area to area, the Company believes it is also a leading player in the international markets with these same companies as its principal competitors. In the trauma implant segment, Stryker is one of five leaders competing principally with Synthes-Stratec, Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. In the spinal implant segment, the Company is one of four leaders, including the principal competitors Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson), and Synthes-Stratec. In the micro implant segment, Stryker is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors Synthes-Stratec, Walter Lorenz Surgical, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.), and KLS Martin L.P. Several companies are engaged in the research and development of products for the repair of hard and soft tissues that would compete with the Company's OP-1 product. Medtronic Sofamor Danek has received FDA approval for its recombinant bone morphogenetic protein ("rhBMP-2") for certain spine, trauma and orthopaedic indications including the treatment of acute, open fractures of the tibial shaft and spinal fusion surgeries. A number of companies currently provide various other therapies, including allografts, bone fillers and electrical stimulation devices for the treatment, repair or replacement of bone and joint tissue. The Company believes that its OP-1 product, which is approved for limited trauma and spine indications in certain markets and is currently in clinical trials for other indications, would ultimately compete with these products and with traditional therapies, such as autograft and allograft. 16 In the surgical equipment segment, Stryker is one of three leaders, together with the principal domestic competitors Medtronic Midas Rex, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), and Linvatec, Inc. (a subsidiary of Conmed Corporation). These companies are also competitors in the international segments, along with Aesculap-Werke AG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), a large European manufacturer. In the surgical navigation segment, Stryker is one of six principal competitors including Medtronic Surgical Navigation Technologies (a division of Medtronic, Inc.), BrainLAB Inc. (a subsidiary of BrainLAB AG), Aesculap AG & Co. KG (a division of B. Braun Melsungen AG), Radionics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Tyco International Ltd.), and GE Medical Systems Navigation and Visualization, Inc. (a subsidiary of General Electric Company). In the arthroscopy segment, the Company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors Smith & Nephew Endoscopy (a division of Smith & Nephew plc), Linvatec, Inc., and Arthrex, Inc. In the laparoscopic imaging products segment, the Company is one of four leaders, together with the principal competitors Karl Storz GmbH & Co. (a German company), ACMI Corporation and Olympus Optical Co. Ltd. (a Japanese company). The Company's primary competitor in the patient handling segment is Hill-Rom Company, Inc. (a division of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc.). In the specialty stretcher segment, the primary competitors are Hausted, Inc. (a subsidiary of Steris Corporation), Hill-Rom Company, Inc., and Midmark Hospital Products Group (a subsidiary of Ohio Medical Instrument Company, Inc.). In the emergency medical services segment, Ferno-Washington, Inc., is the Company's principal competitor. In the United States outpatient physical and occupational rehabilitation segment, the Company's primary competitors are independent, therapist-owned practices and hospital-based services, in addition to other national rehabilitation companies, including Healthsouth Corporation and NovaCare Rehabilitation (a division of Select Medical Corporation). The principal factors that the Company believes differentiate it in these highly competitive market segments and enable it to compete effectively are innovation, reliability, service and reputation. The Company is not able to predict the effect that continuing efforts to reduce health-care expenses generally and hospital costs in particular will have on the future sales of its products or its competitive position. (See "Regulation and Product Quality.") The Company believes that its competitive position in the future will depend to a large degree on its ability to develop new products and make improvements to existing products. While the Company does not consider patents a major factor in its overall competitive success, patents and trademarks are significant to the extent that a product or attribute of a product represents a unique design or process. Patent or trademark protection of such products restricts competitors from duplicating these unique designs and features. Stryker seeks to obtain patent protection on its products whenever possible. The Company currently owns approximately 820 United States patents and 1,330 international patents. MANUFACTURING AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY The Company's manufacturing processes consist primarily of precision machining, metal fabrication and assembly operations; the forging and investment casting of cobalt chrome; and the finishing of cobalt chrome and titanium. In addition, the Company is the sole manufacturer of its OP-1 product. Approximately 9% of the Company's cost of sales in 2005 represented finished products that were purchased complete from outside suppliers. The Company also purchases parts and components, such as forgings, castings, gears, bearings, casters and electrical components, and uses outside sources for certain finishing operations, such as plating, hardening and coating of machined components and sterilization of certain products. The principal raw materials used by the Company are stainless steel, aluminum, cobalt chrome and titanium alloys. In all, purchased parts and components from outside sources were approximately 44% of the total cost of sales in 2005. While the Company relies on single sources for certain purchased materials and services, it believes alternate sources are available if needed. The Company has not experienced any significant difficulty in the past in obtaining the materials necessary to meet its production schedules. 17 Substantially all products manufactured by the Company are stocked in inventory, while certain products manufactured within the Company's MedSurg segment are assembled to order. REGULATION AND PRODUCT QUALITY The Medical Device Amendments of 1976 to the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act; the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990; and regulations issued or proposed thereunder provide for regulation by the FDA of the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, including most of the Company's products. The FDA's Quality System regulations set forth standards for the Company's product design and manufacturing processes, require the maintenance of certain records and provide for inspections of the Company's facilities by the FDA. There are also certain requirements of state, local and foreign governments that must be complied with in the manufacturing and marketing of the Company's products. The Company believes that the manufacturing and quality control procedures it employs meet the requirements of these regulations. Most of the Company's new products fall into FDA classifications that require notification of and review by the FDA before marketing, submitted as a 510(k). The Company's FlexiCore and CerviCore artificial disc products and OP-1 products require extensive clinical testing, consisting of safety and efficacy studies, followed by PMA applications for specific surgical indications. Stryker also is subject to the laws that govern the manufacture and distribution of medical devices of each country in which the Company manufactures or sells products. The member states of the European Union (EU) have adopted the European Medical Device Directives, which create a single set of medical device regulations for all EU member countries. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member countries to obtain Community European (CE) marks for their products. Stryker has authorization to apply the CE mark to substantially all of its products. The Company's OP-1 product has been considered a drug under the regulations for Europe, Australia and Japan. The Company's Physiotherapy Associates, Inc., subsidiary is subject to various federal and state regulations regarding the provision of physical therapy services. The primary entities administering these regulations are the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, CHAMPUS, state workers compensation agencies, state insurance commissioners and state licensing agencies. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of health-care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. It is impossible to predict at this time the long-term impact of such cost-containment measures on the Company's future business. EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2005, the Company had 17,265 employees worldwide, including 6,041 involved in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution operations; 4,873 in sales and marketing; 1,087 in research, development and engineering; 3,545 providing physical, occupational and speech therapy; and the balance in general management and administration. Certain international employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are updated annually. The Company believes that its employee relations are satisfactory. 18 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the Company's business, financial condition or operating results. The Company may be subject to additional risks not currently known to the Company or those which the Company deems immaterial that may also impact its business operations. The Company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating results. The Company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development. The Company continues to place emphasis on the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand its existing product lines. If the Company is unable maintain these good relationships it could decrease the Company's ability to market and sell new and improved products which could unfavorably affect future operating results. The Company's inability to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating results. The talent and drive of the Company's employees is a key factor in the success of its business. The Company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the developing, marketing and selling of new and existing products. If the Company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives. Stricter pricing guidelines for the Orthopaedic Implants industry could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating results. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of health-care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. The Company could see a negative impact on its operating results due to increased pricing pressure in the United States, Japan, and certain other markets. Governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the amount of approved reimbursements for the Company's Orthopaedic Implants. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the Company's future operating results. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete inventory reserves. The Company maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current carrying costs. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive, with new products and surgical procedures introduced on an ongoing basis. Such marketplace changes may cause some of the Company's products to become obsolete. The Company makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilization dates and expected future trends. If actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could unfavorably affect future operating results. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. The Company has spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products. The Company believes these projects will result in the manufacturing of new products and will create additional future sales. However, factors including regulatory delays, safety concerns, or patent disputes could slow down the introduction or marketing of new products. Additionally, current and future clinical trials, including those for OP-1 and SpineCore products, may have unanticipated issues that arise prior to regulatory approval that could delay or cease a product's development. The 19 Company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper FDA approval or is unable to successfully market these new products. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. The Company is a defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. Such matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. To partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, the Company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject to normal deductibles and loss limitations. While the Company believes its current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement payments. Likewise, the Company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found to be liable. In addition, such product liability settlements may negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods. In December 2003, the Company announced that it and its subsidiary Physiotherapy Associates, Inc., received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office in Boston, Massachusetts, in connection with a Department of Justice investigation of Physiotherapy Associates' billing and coding practices. In March 2005, the Company announced that it received a subpoena from the United States Department of Justice requesting documents for the period January 2002 through the present relating to "any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between Stryker Corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by Stryker Corporation." The Company is fully cooperating with the Department of Justice regarding these matters. As a result of these investigations, the Company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by settlements of these matters. The Company's operating results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other developments in countries in which the Company does business. Future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social conditions including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or changes in the interpretation of or creation of new laws and regulations in each of the countries the Company conducts business, including the United States. Additionally, the Company operates in multiple tax jurisdictions and must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in significant tax adjustments that could negatively impact the Company's future operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 20 