ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers and prospective investors in the Company’s securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the company’s securities could decline significantly, and investors could lose all or part of their investment in the Company’s common stock. Market and Interest Rate Risk Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. The discussion in this report under “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Asset and Liability Management” and “- Liquidity” and “Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Bank’s income and cash flow depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities, the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings and the Company’s success in competing for deposits. The Company cannot control or prevent changes in the level of interest rates. They fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and other liabilities. Risks Related to the Nature and Geographical Location of the Company’s Business The Bank invests in loans that contain inherent credit risks that may cause the Company to incur losses. The Company can provide no assurance that the credit quality of the loan portfolio will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect the Company. The Company’s operations are concentrated geographically in California, and poor economic conditions may cause the Company to incur losses. Substantially all of the Bank’s business is located in California. A portion of the loan portfolio of the Company is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2006, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 59% of the Bank’s loan portfolio. The Bank’s financial condition and operating results will be subject to changes in economic conditions in California. In the early to mid-1990s, California experienced a significant and prolonged downturn in its economy, which adversely affected financial institutions. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the decline in the technology sector, the California state government’s budgetary difficulties and continuing fiscal difficulties. The Company can provide no assurance that conditions in the California economy will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely effect the Bank. - 9 - Table of Contents The markets in which the Company operates are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Most of the properties of the Company are located in California. Also most of the real and personal properties which currently secure some of the Bank’s loans are located in California. California is a state which is prone to earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire or other natural disaster, the Bank faces the risk that many of its borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. A major earthquake, flood, fire or other natural disaster in California could have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory Risks Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to the Company. As a holding company, a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow typically comes from dividends paid by its bank and nonbank subsidiaries. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Company’s subsidiaries can pay to the Company without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of the Company’s subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary’s creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before the Company, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Adverse effects of changes in banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect the Company. The Company is subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of the Bank’s customers and not for the benefit of investors. In the past, the Bank’s business has been materially affected by these regulations. This trend is likely to continue in the future. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations currently affecting the Company and the Company’s subsidiaries, may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, the Company’s business may be adversely affected by any future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement, including legislative and regulatory reactions to the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and future acts of terrorism, and major U.S. corporate bankruptcies and reports of accounting irregularities at U.S. public companies. Additionally, the Bank’s business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Company is particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States of America. Under long- standing policy of the FRB, a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, the Company may be required to commit financial and other resources to its subsidiary bank in circumstances where the Company might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings by depository institutions, and (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Systems, Accounting and Internal Control Risks The accuracy of the Company’s judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact operating results and financial condition. The discussion under “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” in this report and the information referred to in that discussion is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company makes certain estimates and judgments in preparing its financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. - 10 - Table of Contents The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management and systems. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately corrected by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. The Company maintains controls and procedures to mitigate against risks such as processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud, and maintains insurance coverage for certain of these risks. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Events could occur which are not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls or are not insured against or are in excess of the Company’s insurance limits. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Shares of Company common stock eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect on the market for Company common stock and could adversely affect the market price. The Articles of Incorporation of the Company authorize the issuance of 150 million shares of common stock (and two additional classes of 1 million shares each, denominated “Class B Common Stock” and “Preferred Stock”, respectively) of which approximately 30.5 million were outstanding at December 31, 2006. Pursuant to its stock option plans, at December 31, 2006, the Company had exercisable options outstanding of 3.1 million. As of December 31, 2006, 1.4 million shares of Company common stock remained available for grants under the Company’s stock option plans (and stock purchase plan). Sales of substantial amounts of Company common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of its common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 