ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto and the Company's other filings with the SEC, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company's business. The Company's business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks or additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial may also adversely affect its business, financial condition, or results of operations such as: changes in the economy, including changes in inflation, tax rates and interest rates, risk associated with possible disruption in the Company's operations due to terrorism and other manmade or natural disasters, future regulatory actions, legal issues or environmental matters, loss of, or changes in, executive management and changes in accounting standards which are adverse to the Company. Also, there can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting our business or that the publicly available or other information with respect to these matters is complete and correct. OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CONDUCTING BUSINESS OVERSEAS. International operations could be adversely affected by changes in political and economic conditions, trade protection measures, restrictions on repatriation of earnings, differing intellectual property rights and changes in regulatory requirements that restrict the sales of products or increase costs. Changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could result in increases or decreases in earnings and may adversely affect the value of the Company's assets outside the United States. Our operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations. Although generally these trade agreements have positive effects, they can also impose requirements that adversely affect our business, such as setting quotas on product that may be imported from a particular country into our key markets in North America. Our ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the United States or other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require us to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to our customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. See also "ITEM 7A - QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK" of this Form 10-K. In addition, the Company's growth strategy involves expanding sales of its products into foreign markets. There is no guarantee that our products will be accepted by foreign customers or how long it may take to develop sales of our products in these foreign markets. INCREASES IN THE PRICE OR REDUCED AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS. Raw materials needed to manufacture products are obtained from numerous suppliers. Under normal market conditions, these raw materials are readily available on the open market from a variety of producers. However, from time to time the prices and availability of these raw materials fluctuate, which could impair the Company's ability to procure the required raw materials for our operations or increase the cost of manufacturing our products. If the price of raw materials increases, the Company may be unable to pass these increases on to its customers and could experience reduction to its profit margins. Also, any decrease of availability of raw materials could impair our ability to meet production requirements in a timely manner. INCREASED COMPETITION IN THE MARKETS THE COMPANY SERVICES COULD IMPACT REVENUES AND EARNINGS. Any change in competition may result in lost market share or reduced prices, which could result in reduced profit margins. This may impair the ability to grow or even maintain current levels of revenues and earnings. While the Company has an extensive customer base, loss of certain customers could -7- adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations until such business is replaced, and no assurances can be made that the Company would be able to regain or replace any lost customers. THE COMPANY WILL BE REQUIRED TO EVALUATE ITS INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING UNDER SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. We are currently a "non-accelerated filer" as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Under current reporting requirements, the Company will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year end 2006 or 2007, depending on the value of our public float as of the end of the second quarter in 2006. Section 404 will require the Company to include in its report management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal period for which the Company is filing its 10-K. This report must also include disclosure of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting that the Company has identified. Additionally, the Company's independent registered accounting firm will be required to issue a report on management's assessment of its internal control over financial reporting and their evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The Company's assessment requires it to make subjective judgments and the independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with the Company's assessment. If the Company or its independent registered public accounting firm were unable to complete the assessments within the period prescribed by Section 404 and thus be unable to conclude that the internal control over financial reporting is effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common stock or impact the Company's borrowing ability. THE INABILITY TO IDENTIFY OR COMPLETE ACQUISITIONS COULD LIMIT FUTURE GROWTH. As part of its growth strategy, the Company continues to pursue acquisitions of complementary products or businesses. The ability to grow through acquisitions depends upon the Company's ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions. The Company makes certain assumptions based on the information provided by potential acquisition candidates and also conducts due diligence to ensure the information provided is accurate and based on reasonable assumptions, but the Company may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or predict accurately how an acquisition will ultimately affect the business, financial condition or results of operations. DEMAND FOR NEW PRODUCTS AND THE INABILITY TO DEVELOP AND INTRODUCE NEW COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS AT FAVORABLE PROFIT MARGINS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S PERFORMANCE AND PROSPECTS FOR FUTURE GROWTH AND THE COMPANY WOULD NOT BE POSITIONED TO MAINTAIN CURRENT LEVELS OF REVENUES AND EARNINGS. The uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production, may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a successful basis. Acceptance of the new products may not meet sales expectations due to several factors, such as the Company's failure to accurately predict market demand or its inability to resolve technical issues in a timely and cost-effective manner. Additionally, the inability to develop new products on a timely basis could result in loss of business to competitors. THE COMPANY COULD BE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. From time to time, the Company's operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental and employment matters, which are defended and settled in the ordinary course of business. While the Company is unable to predict the outcome of any of these matters, it does not believe, based upon currently available information, that the resolution of any pending matter will have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. See "Item 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS" in this Form 10-K for a discussion of current litigation. -8- THE COMPANY COULD BE SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL TAX LIABILITIES. The Company is subject to income tax laws in the United States, its states and municipalities and those of other foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has business operations. These laws are complex and subject to interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment and interpretation is required in determining the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, transactions arise where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe the Company's tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Based on the status of a given tax audit or related litigation, a material effect on our income tax provision or net income may result during the period or periods from the initial recognition of a particular matter in our reported financial results to the final closure of that tax audit or settlement of related litigation when the ultimate tax and related cash flow is known with certainty. THE COMPANY'S GOODWILL OR INDEFINITE-LIVED INTANGIBLE ASSETS MAY BECOME IMPAIRED WHICH COULD REQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT CHARGE TO EARNINGS TO BE RECOGNIZED. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed for impairment at least annually. Numerous assumptions are used in the evaluation of impairment and there is no guarantee that the Company's independent registered public accounting firm would reach the same conclusion as the Company or an independent valuation firm, which could result in a disagreement between management and the independent registered public accounting firm. Future operating results used in the assumptions, such as sales or profit forecasts, may not materialize and the Company could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment is determined, resulting in an unfavorable impact on our results of operations. THE COMPANY MAY NEED ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE, AND IT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS, IF AT ALL. From time-to-time, the Company has historically relied on outside financing to fund expanded operations, capital expenditure programs and acquisitions. The Company may require additional capital in the future to fund operations or strategic opportunities. The Company cannot be assured that additional financing will be available on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of available financing may place limits on the Company's financial and operating flexibility. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, the Company may not be able to expand or acquire complementary businesses and may not be able to continue to develop new products or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. THE COMPANY'S STOCK PRICE IS HIGHLY VOLATILE DUE TO LOW FLOAT, WHICH IS THE NUMBER OF SHARES OF THE COMPANY'S COMMON STOCK THAT ARE OUTSTANDING AND AVAILABLE FOR TRADING BY THE PUBLIC. The Company's stock price may change dramatically when buyers seeking to purchase shares of the Company's common stock exceed the shares available on the market or when there are no buyers to purchase shares of the Company's common stock when shareholders are trying to sell their shares. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. -9- 