ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Readers and prospective investors in the Company’s securities should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of or focused on or that Management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Company’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the company’s securities could decline significantly, and investors could lose all or part of their investment in the Company’s common stock. - 9 - Table of Contents Market and Interest Rate Risk Changes in interest rates could reduce income and cash flow. The discussion in this report under “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Asset and Liability Management” and “- Liquidity” and “Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company’s income and cash flow depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest earned on loans and investment securities compared to the interest paid on deposits and other borrowings, and the Company’s success in competing for loans and deposits. The Company cannot control or prevent changes in the level of interest rates. They fluctuate in response to general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Open Market Committee of the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and other borrowings, and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits and other liabilities. Changes in capital market conditions could reduce asset valuations. Capital market conditions, including liquidity, investor confidence, bond issuer credit worthiness perceived counter-party risk, the supply of and demand for financial instruments, the financial strength of market participants, and other factors, can materially impact the value of the Company’s assets. An impairment in the value of the Company’s assets could result in asset write-downs, reducing the Company’s asset values, earnings, and equity. Current market developments may adversely affect the Company’s industry, business and results of operations. Declines in the housing market during recent years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors, concerned about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit, volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect the Company. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of the Company’s counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be increased when the collateral the Company holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the secured obligation. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or earnings. There can be no assurance that the recently enacted legislation will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which evolved from the Treasury’s initial proposal in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”) into law. The Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA or ARRA will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA or ARRA to help stabilize the financial markets and a worsening of financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. - 10 - Table of Contents Risks Related to the Nature and Geographical Location of the Company’s Business The Company invests in loans that contain inherent credit risks that may cause the Company to incur losses. The Company can provide no assurance that the credit quality of the loan portfolio will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect the Company. The Company’s operations are concentrated geographically in California, and poor economic conditions may cause the Company to incur losses. Substantially all of the Company’s business is located in California. A portion of the loan portfolio of the Company is dependent on real estate. At December 31, 2009, real estate served as the principal source of collateral with respect to approximately 53% of the Company’s loan portfolio. The Company’s financial condition and operating results will be subject to changes in economic conditions in California. In the early to mid-1990s, California experienced a significant and prolonged downturn in its economy, which adversely affected financial institutions. The California economy is currently weak following a severe recession which may last for a prolonged period of time. In 2007 and throughout 2008, much of the California and national real estate market experienced a decline in values of varying degrees. This decline is having an adverse impact on the businesses of some of the Company’s borrowers and on the value of the collateral for many of the Company’s loans. Economic conditions in California are subject to various uncertainties at this time, including the decline in construction and real estate sectors, the California state government’s budgetary difficulties and continuing fiscal difficulties. The Company can provide no assurance that conditions in the California economy will not deteriorate in the future and that such deterioration will not adversely affect the Company. The markets in which the Company operates are subject to the risk of earthquakes and other natural disasters. Most of the properties of the Company are located in California. Also, most of the real and personal properties which currently secure some of the Company’s loans are located in California. California is a state which is prone to earthquakes, brush fires, flooding and other natural disasters. In addition to possibly sustaining damage to its own properties, if there is a major earthquake, flood, fire or other natural disaster, the Company faces the risk that many of its borrowers may experience uninsured property losses, or sustained job interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to meet the terms of their loan obligations. A major earthquake, flood, fire or other natural disaster in California could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a financial services company, adverse changes in general business or economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A sustained or continuing weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which the Company does business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on the Company’s business: • a decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by the Company; • an increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; • an impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill; • an impairment of certain investment securities, such as state and local municipal securities; • an impairment of life insurance policies owned by the Company; • an increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to the Company. • an increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The Company’s Business May Be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally. The United States economy has been in a recession and the strength of the current recovery is uncertian. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many businesses are in serious difficulty due to high unemployment. Since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. - 11 - Table of Contents Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, have combined to increase credit spreads, and to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. In 2008, the U.S. government, the Federal Reserve and other regulators took numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, including investing approximately $200 billion in the equity of other banking organizations. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon on the business environment in the markets where the Company operates, in the State of California and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, during 2009, the business environment has been adverse for many households, businesses and government entities in the United States and worldwide. It is expected that the business environment in the State of California, the United States and worldwide will continue to remain weak for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, the demand for loans, loan volumes and related revenue, results of operations and financial condition. The Value of Securities in the Company’s Investment Securities Portfolio May be Negatively Affected by Continued Disruptions In Securities Markets. The market for some of the investment securities held in the Company’s portfolio has been extremely volatile over the past several years. Volatile market conditions may detrimentally affect the value of these securities, such as through reduced valuations due to the perception of heightened credit and liquidity risks. There can be no assurance that the declines in market value will not result in other than temporary impairments of these assets, which would lead to accounting charges that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s net income and capital levels. Regulatory Risks Restrictions on dividends and other distributions could limit amounts payable to the Company. As a holding company, a substantial portion of the Company’s cash flow typically comes from dividends paid by the Bank. Various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Company’s subsidiaries can pay to the Company without regulatory approval. In addition, if any of the Company’s subsidiaries were to liquidate, that subsidiary’s creditors will be entitled to receive distributions from the assets of that subsidiary to satisfy their claims against it before the Company, as a holder of an equity interest in the subsidiary, will be entitled to receive any of the assets of the subsidiary. Adverse effects of changes in banking or other laws and regulations or governmental fiscal or monetary policies could adversely affect the Company. The Company is subject to significant federal and state regulation and supervision, which is primarily for the benefit and protection of the Company’s customers and not for the benefit of investors. In the past, the Company’s business has been materially affected by these regulations. This trend is likely to continue in the future. As an example, the Federal Reserve Board has amended Regulation E, which implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, and the official staff commentary to the regulation, which interprets the requirements of Regulation E. The final rule limits the ability of a financial institution to assess an overdraft fee for paying automated teller machine (ATM) and one-time debit card transactions that overdraw a consumer’s account, unless the consumer affirmatively consents, or opts in, to the institution’s payment of overdrafts for these transactions. The rule has a mandatory compliance date of July 1, 2010 for new accounts and August 15, 2010 for existing accounts. Management believes that implementation of the new provisions will result in the reduction of overdraft fees collected by the Bank. - 12 - Table of Contents Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations currently affecting the Company and the Company’s subsidiaries, may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, the Company’s business may be adversely affected by any future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement including future acts of terrorism, major U.S. corporate bankruptcies and reports of accounting irregularities at U.S. public companies. Additionally, the Company’s business is affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Company is particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States of America. Under long- standing policy of the FRB, a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result of that policy, the Company may be required to commit financial and other resources to its subsidiary bank in circumstances where the Company might not otherwise do so. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in U.S. government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings by depository institutions, (c) changing interest rates paid on balances financial institutions deposit with the FRB, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Federal and state governments could pass legislation responsive to current credit conditions. As an example, the Company could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amount the Bank’s borrowers are otherwise contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts. Also, the Company could experience higher credit losses because of federal or state legislation or regulatory action that limits the Bank’s ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. The FDIC insures deposits at insured financial institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. Current economic conditions have increased expectations for bank failures, in which case the FDIC would take control of failed banks and ensure payment of deposits up to insured limits using the resources of the Deposit Insurance Fund. In such case, the FDIC may increase premium assessments to maintain adequate funding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The behavior of depositors in regard to the level of FDIC insurance could cause our existing customers to reduce the amount of deposits held at the Bank, and could cause new customers to open deposit accounts at the Bank. The level and composition of the Bank’s deposit portfolio directly impacts the Bank’s funding cost and net interest margin. The FRB has been providing vast amounts of liquidity into the banking system due to current economic and capital market conditions. A reduction in the FRB’s activities or capacity could reduce liquidity in the markets, thereby increasing funding costs to the Bank or reducing the availability of funds to the Bank to finance its existing operations. Systems, Accounting and Internal Control Risks The accuracy of the Company’s judgments and estimates about financial and accounting matters will impact operating results and financial condition. The discussion under “Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” in this report and the information referred to in that discussion is incorporated by reference in this paragraph. The Company makes certain estimates and judgments in preparing its financial statements. The quality and accuracy of those estimates and judgments will have an impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. - 13 - Table of Contents The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management and systems. There can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately corrected by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Company to litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. The Company maintains controls and procedures to mitigate against risks such as processing system failures and errors, and customer or employee fraud, and maintains insurance coverage for certain of these risks. Any system of controls and procedures, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Events could occur which are not prevented or detected by the Company’s internal controls or are not insured against or are in excess of the Company’s insurance limits. Any failure or circumvention of the Company’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may have underestimated losses on loans of the former County Bank. On February 6, 2009, the Bank acquired approximately $1.6 billion in assets, including loans, and $1.2 billion in deposits of the former County Bank, of Merced, California, from the FDIC as its receiver. County Bank’s loan portfolio had suffered substantial deterioration over the previous year, and the Company can provide no assurance that it will not continue to deteriorate now that it is part of the Bank’s portfolio. If Management’s estimates of purchased loan fair values as of February 6, 2009 are higher than ultimate cash flows, the recorded carrying amount of the loans may need to be reduced with a corresponding charge to earnings, net of FDIC loss indemnification. Shares of Company common stock eligible for future sale could have a dilutive effect on the market for Company common stock and could adversely affect the market price. The Articles of Incorporation of the Company authorize the issuance of 150 million shares of common stock (and two additional classes of 1 million shares each, denominated “Class B Common Stock” and “Preferred Stock”, respectively) of which approximately 29.2 million were outstanding at December 31, 2009. Pursuant to its stock option plans, at December 31, 2009, the Company had outstanding options exercisable for 2.1 million shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2009, 3.4 million shares of Company common stock remained available for grants under the Company’s stock option plans. Sales of substantial amounts of Company common stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of its common stock. The Company repurchases and retires its common stock in accordance with Board of Directors-approved share repurchase programs. At December 31, 2009, approximately 2.0 million shares remained available to repurchase under such plans. The Company’s payment of dividends on common stock could be eliminated or reduced. Holders of the Company’s common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by the Company’s Board of Directors. Although the Company has historically paid cash dividends on the Company’s common stock, the Company is not required to do so and the Company’s Board of Directors could reduce or eliminate the Company’s common stock dividend in the future. The Company could repurchase shares of its common stock at price levels considered excessive. The Company has been active in repurchasing and retiring shares of its common stock when alternative uses of excess capital, such as acquisitions, have been limited. The Company could repurchase shares of its common stock at price levels considered excessive, thereby spending more cash on such repurchases as deemed reasonable and effectively retiring fewer shares than would be retired if repurchases were affected at lower prices. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None - 14 - Table of Contents 