ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS/RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 Certain matters contained in this report include “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements discuss the Company’s expected future results based on current and pending business operations. The Company makes these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report which address activities, events or developments that the Company expects, believes or anticipates will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “might,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled,” “will,” or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements regarding: · amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; · expansion and growth of the Company’s business and operations; · business strategy; · estimates of proved oil and gas reserves; · reserve potential; · development drilling potential; · cash flow from operations; and · oil and gas prices and demand for those products. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties, and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this document. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond the Company’s ability to control or project. Specific factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include: · the uncertainties inherent in assessing and estimating reserves and future reserves, market demand, and volatility of prices; · inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, and general economic conditions; · the impact of operational and development hazards; · costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government regulations, environmental liabilities, and litigation; · political conditions in Argentina and other parts of the world; · the failure to renew participation in hydrocarbon concessions granted by the Argentine government on reasonable terms; and · risks associated with weather conditions, earthquakes, and acts of terrorism. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, the Company cautions investors not to unduly rely on its forward-looking statements. The Company disclaims any obligations to and does not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments. In addition to causing the Company’s actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause the Company’s intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in the Company’s intentions may also cause its results to differ. The Company may change its intentions at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, its assumptions, or otherwise. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, the Company cautions that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. 11 RISK FACTORS The reader should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, and financial condition as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the Company’s securities. Risks Inherent to the Company’s Industry and Business Estimating reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties and potential negative revisions to reserve estimates, and oil and gas price declines may lead to impairment of oil and gas assets. Estimates of the Company’s proved reserves included in the unaudited supplemental oil and gas information in this report on Form 10-K are prepared in accordance with guidelines established by GAAP and by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: (i) the quality and quantity of available data; (ii) the interpretation of that data; (iii) the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and (iv) the judgment of the third party reserve engineer that prepares the estimate. The Company’s proved reserve information is based on estimates prepared by its independent reserve engineers. Estimates prepared by others may be higher or lower than the Company’s estimates. Because these estimates depend on many assumptions, all of which may substantially differ from actual results, reserve estimates may be different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production after the date of an estimate may justify material revisions to the estimate. The present value of future net cash flows should not be assumed to be the current market value of the Company’s estimated proved reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the Company based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from the estimate of proved reserves as of December 31, 2007, on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. The WTI price on the date of the estimate was $95.95, and the estimated realized price of the Company was $42.35 on that date. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. The Company’s estimates of proved reserves materially impact depreciation, depletion and amortization expense. If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in losses. The revisions may also be sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties which would result in a further non-cash charge to earnings. Such a decline may result from lower market prices, which may make it uneconomic to drill for and produce higher cost reserves. On December 12, 2007, the SEC issued a “Concept Release” to obtain information about the extent and nature of the public’s interest in revising oil and gas reserves disclosure requirements which exist in their current form in Regulation S-K and Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Commission adopted the current oil and gas reserves disclosure requirement between 1978 and 1982. The Concept Release is intended to address significant changes in the oil and gas industry. Some commentators have expressed concern that the Commission’s rules have not adapted to current practices and may not provide investors with the most useful picture of oil and gas reserves public companies hold. Comments were due to the Commission on February 19, 2008. At this time it is not possible to determine what effect changes the SEC may make, if any, will have on our reserve estimates and disclosures. Historic performance of the Company’s exploration and production program is no guarantee of future performance. The success rate of the Company’s exploration and drilling program in 2007 should not be considered a predictor of future performance. Performance of the Company’s exploration and production activities is affected in part by factors beyond its control (any of which could cause the results of this business to decrease materially), such as: · regulations and regulatory approvals; · availability of capital for drilling projects which may be affected by other risk factors discussed in this report; · cost-effective availability of drilling rigs and necessary equipment; · availability of skilled labor; · availability of cost-effective transportation for products; and 12 · market risks discussed in this report. The Company’s drilling, production, gathering, processing, and transporting activities involve numerous risks that might result in accidents and other operating risks and hazards. The Company’s operations are subject to all the risks and hazards typically associated with the development and exploration for, and the production and transportation of oil and gas. These operating risks include, but are not limited to: · blowouts, cratering, and explosions; · uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, or well fluids; · fires; · formations with abnormal pressures; · pollution and other environmental risks; and · natural disasters. In spite of the Company’s precautions, an event could cause considerable harm to people or property and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Costs of environmental liabilities and complying with existing and future environmental regulations could exceed the Company’s current expectations. The Company’s operations are subject to environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities, and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, in connection with spills, releases, and emissions of various substances into the environment, and in connection with the operation, maintenance, abandonment, and reclamation of the Company’s facilities. Compliance with environmental legislation could require significant expenditures including for clean up costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties and for the possible failure to comply with environmental legislation and regulations that might result in the imposition of fines and penalties. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, the Company could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose it to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps the Company could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and the Company might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. Although the Company does not expect that the costs of complying with current environmental legislation will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations, no assurance can be given that the costs of complying with environmental regulation in the future will not have such an effect. The Company makes assumptions and develops expectations about possible expenditures related to environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, the Company’s assumptions may change. The Company might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for certain development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or if the Company fails to obtain and comply with them, the operation of its facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse consequences to its operations. Drilling for oil and gas is an inherently risky business. Drilling for oil and gas is inherently risky in that the Company makes assessments of where hydrocarbon reservoirs exist at considerable depths in the subsurface based on interpretation of geophysical, geological and engineering information and data without the benefit of physical contact with the accumulations of trapped oil and gas it believes can be produced. Finding and producing oil and gas requires the existence of a combination of geologic conditions in the subsurface that include the following: hydrocarbons must have been generated in a sedimentary basin, they must have migrated from the source into the subsurface area of interest, tectonic conditions in the area of interest must have created a trap required for the storage and accumulation of migrating hydrocarbons, and the sedimentary layer in which the hydrocarbons could be stored must have sufficient porosity and permeability to allow the flow of oil and gas into the drilled well bore. 13 Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, the Company’s future success depends on its ability to obtain and successfully develop new reserves. The production from the Company’s existing wells will naturally decline as reservoir pressure depletes over time, which could mean that the Company’s cash flows associated with its wells could also decline over time. Maintaining the Company’s current rate of production is dependent upon obtaining new oil and gas properties and successfully exploring, drilling, and producing products from those and existing properties on economically feasible terms. Competition for oil and gas properties is high and exploring for and producing hydrocarbons from these properties is becoming increasingly expensive. Achieving growth is dependent upon the Company’s finding or acquiring additional reserves, as well as successfully developing current reserves, and risks associated with drilling may cause drilling operations to be delayed or cancelled. The Company has experienced a shortage in the availability of drillings rigs in recent years. The Company’s ability to develop its reserves is dependent on its ability to contract drilling rigs. In recent years, the Company has experienced a shortage in the availability of drilling rigs due to increased demand for rigs in Argentina. If the Company is unable to contract for drilling rigs on reasonable prices and terms, its results of operations and rate of production could be adversely affected. The Company’s oil sales have historically depended on a relatively small group of customers. The lack of competition for buyers could result in unfavorable sales terms which, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Argentine domestic refining market is small. There are five active refiners that constitute 99 percent of the total market. As a result, the Company’s oil sales have historically depended on a relatively small group of customers. The largest of these five companies refines mostly its own crude oil production, while the smallest of the five operates only in the northwest basin of Argentina. During 2007, the Company sold all of its Entre Lomas oil production, which constitutes more than 90 percent of its total oil production, to a refinery owned by Petrobras Energía. The lack of competition in this market could result in unfavorable sales terms which, in turn, could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company is not the operator of all its hydrocarbon interests. The reliance on others to operate these interests could adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. The Company relies on Petrolera as the operator of the Entre Lomas and Bajada del Palo concessions and the Agua Amarga exploration permit, which together comprise approximately 80 percent of the Company’s total hydrocarbon production in 2007. The Company also relies on Pan American Energy and ROCH as the operators of the Acambuco concession and the TDF Concessions, respectively. As the non operating partner, the Company has limited ability to control operations or the associated costs of such operations. The success of those operations is therefore dependent on a number of factors outside the Company’s control, including the competence and financial resources of the operators. Changes in, and volatility of, supply, demand, and prices for crude oil, natural gas and other hydrocarbons has a significant impact on the Company’s ability to generate earnings, fund capital requirements, and pay shareholder dividends. Historically, the markets for crude oil, natural gas, and other hydrocarbons have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty, and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including: · worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for electricity, natural gas, petroleum, and related commodities; · exploration discoveries throughout the world; · the level of development investment in the oil and gas industry; · turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions; · terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets; · weather conditions; · strikes, work stoppages, or protests; · the level of market demand; 14 · the price and availability of other types of fuels; · the availability of pipeline capacity; · supply disruptions and transportation disruptions; · the price and level of foreign imports; · domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; · adherence by Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) member nations to production quotas, and future decisions by OPEC to either increase or decrease quotas · Argentine governmental actions; · the overall economic environment; and · the credit of participants in the markets where hydrocarbon products are bought and sold. Oil and gas investments are inherently risky and there is no guarantee that the fiscal conditions that existed at the time of investment will not be changed by the host country. Oil and gas investments are attractive when stable fiscal conditions exist over the productive life of an investment. There is no guarantee that the fiscal conditions that existed at the time of investment will not be changed by the host country, thereby lowering the future economic return that was anticipated when the decision to invest was made. The vast amount of international oil and gas reserves are controlled by national oil companies and access to oil and gas reserves and resource potential is limited. Access to oil and gas reserves and resource potential is becoming more limited over time. Known producing oil and gas reserves under production in developed countries are declining thereby increasing the concentration of oil and gas reserves and resource potential in undeveloped countries that reserve the right to explore and develop such reserves for their national oil companies. This restricts investment opportunities for international oil and gas companies and makes it more difficult to find international oil and gas investment opportunities with economic terms that are attractive. Risks Associated with Operations in Argentina The right of the Company to explore for, drill for, and produce hydrocarbons in Argentina are generally derived from participation in concessions granted by the Argentine government, which have a finite term, the expiration or termination of which could materially affect the Company’s results. The right of the Company to explore for, drill for, and produce hydrocarbons in Argentina is generally derived from participation in concessions granted by the government, which have a finite term, the expiration or termination of which could materially affect the Company’s results. For example, the term of the Entre Lomas concession, which comprised approximately 80 percent of the Company’s total hydrocarbon production in 2007, runs to the year 2016. The term of a concession can be extended for 10 years with the consent of the Argentine government. However, the government may withhold its consent, or could extend the term of the concession on terms less favorable than those the Company has today. Argentina has a history of economic instability. Because the Company’s operations are exclusively located in Argentina, its operations and financial results have been, and could be in the future, adversely affected by economic, market, currency, and political instability in the country as well as measures taken by the government in response to such instability. Please read “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk – Argentine Economic and Political Environment” for a description of Argentina’s economic crisis of 2002 and the government’s reaction to that crisis. Some of those actions had an adverse effect on the Company’s results. Argentina’s economic and political situation continues to evolve and the Argentine government may enact future regulations or policies that, when finalized and adopted, may materially impact, among other items, (i) the realized prices the Company receives for the commodities it produces and sells as a result of new taxes; (ii) the timing of repatriations of cash to the Cayman Islands; (iii) the Company’s asset valuations; and (iv) peso-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. 15 Strikes, work stoppages, and protests could increase the Company’s operating costs, hinder operations, reduce cash flow, and delay growth projects. Strikes, work stoppages, and protests could arise from the delicate political and economic situation in Argentina and these actions could increase the Company’s operating costs, hinder operations, reduce cash flow, and delay growth projects. Price reduction formulas in agreements to sell crude oil to refiners considerably reduce the increases in the sale price net back to the Company as the price of crude oil increases. Consequently, recent sharp increases in oil prices have benefited oil producers outside of Argentina more than the Company. Prior to 2002, the per barrel price for Argentine crude oil was based on the spot market price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil (“WTI”) less a discount to provide for differences in gravity and quality. In the wake of the Argentine economic crises of 2002, and as the price of crude oil increased to record levels during 2004, politically driven mechanisms were implemented to determine the sale price of oil produced and sold in Argentina. The Argentine government enacted strict price controls over gasoline prices and created an oil export tax which have forced producers and refiners to negotiate oil sales prices significantly below international market levels and that approximate oil export net backs thereby alleviating the impact of higher crude oil prices on Argentina’s economy. WTI continues to be the reference price for oil sold in the country, and the aforementioned gravity and quality discounts still apply. However, producers and refiners have gradually incorporated additional reduction factors into pricing formulas that act to considerably reduce the sale price net back to Argentine producers such that net back reductions escalate to higher and higher levels as WTI increases. Consequently, increases in oil prices over the past several years have benefited oil producers outside of Argentina more than the Company. In 2007, the export tax was extended for an additional five years, and was increased such that net back prices for oil exports are effectively capped at $42 per barrel after the tax is paid. The increase in the export tax rate has negatively affected prices for oil sold in Argentina. For further discussion about oil prices, please read Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – General Business Overview – Oil and Natural Gas Marketing.” Risks Related to Regulations that Affect the Company’s Business The cost and outcome of legal and administrative claims and proceedings against the Company and its subsidiaries could adversely affect the Company’s results and operations. The Company is party to certain proceedings based upon alleged violation of foreign currency regulations as described in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The process is in the early stages and the Company anticipates that this matter will remain open for some time. Under the pertinent foreign exchange regulations, the central bank of Argentina may impose significant fines on the Company. The result of an adverse decision could adversely affect the Company. In addition, the cost and outcome of any future legal or administrative claims could adversely affect the Company. Changes in Argentine laws and regulations to which the Company is subject, including tax, environmental and employment laws, and regulations, could have a material affect on its operations and results. The Company is subject to numerous laws and regulations in Argentina, which, among others, include those related to taxation, environmental regulations, and employment. Regulation of certain aspects of the Company’s business that are currently unregulated in the future and changes in the laws or regulations could materially affect the Company’s results and operations. Risks Related to Employees Institutional knowledge residing with current employees might not be adequately preserved. Certain of the Company’s employees who have many years of service have extensive institutional knowledge. As these employees reach retirement age, the Company may not be able to replace them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. Other qualified individuals could leave the Company or refuse its offers of employment if the Company’s recruiting and retention efforts are unsuccessful. The Company’s efforts at knowledge transfer could be inadequate. Risks Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena, and Business Disruption The Company’s assets and operations can be affected by weather and other natural phenomena. The Company’s assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, and other natural phenomena and weather conditions including extreme temperatures, making it more difficult for the Company to realize the historic rates of return associated with these assets and operations. 16 Risks Related to Dividends and Distributions The Company’s articles of association provide that the Company may pay dividends or make distributions out of the Company’s profits, the share premium account, or as otherwise permitted by law. In the event the Company has no profits for a given period and has accumulated deficits, the Company can make dividend or other distributions to its shareholders from the share premium account, which is similar to the paid in capital account under U.S. GAAP, as long as the distributions do not render the Company insolvent. If the Company elects to pay dividends at times when the Company does not otherwise have current profits or accumulated earnings and profits, such dividends could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. ITEM 