Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider each of the risks described below before purchasing shares of our common stock. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect our business. Our business could also be affected by additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could materially suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our growth depends on our ability to timely develop and successfully integrate new pharmaceutical products. Our strategy for growth is dependent upon our ability to develop products that can be promoted through current marketing and distributions channels and, when appropriate, the enhancement of such marketing and distribution channels. We may fail to meet our anticipated time schedule for the filing of ANDAs and NDAs or may decide not to pursue ANDAs or NDAs that we have submitted or anticipate submitting. Our internal development of new pharmaceutical products is dependent upon the research and development capabilities of our personnel and our strategic business alliance infrastructure. There can be no assurance that our strategic business alliance partners or we will successfully develop new pharmaceutical products or, if developed, successfully integrate new products into our existing product lines. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will receive all necessary FDA approvals or that such approvals will not involve delays, which may adversely, affect the marketing and sale of our products. Our failure to develop new products or to receive FDA approval of ANDAs or NDAs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Generic and off-patent pharmaceutical products are particularly susceptible to competition, substitution policies and reimbursement policies. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify suitable branded pharmaceutical products to target for development of generic equivalents, determine or anticipate the dates when these branded pharmaceuticals are expected to come off patent, and time our product development activities accordingly so that we will be ready to manufacture and market our generic equivalent products at the most advantageous times. Generic pharmaceuticals must meet the same quality standards as branded pharmaceuticals, even though these equivalent pharmaceuticals are sold at prices that are significantly lower than branded pharmaceuticals. Generic substitution is regulated by the federal and state governments, as is reimbursement for generic drug dispensing. There can be no assurance that substitution will be permitted for newly approved generic drugs or that such products will be subject to government reimbursement. In addition, generic products developed by other third parties may render our generic products noncompetitive or obsolete, or may glut the market with competing products resulting in a reduction in sale price or market share for the generic products we sell. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consistently bring generic pharmaceutical products to market quickly and efficiently in the future. An increase in competition in the sale of generic pharmaceutical products or our failure to bring such products to market before our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there is no proprietary protection for most of the branded pharmaceutical products that either we or other pharmaceutical companies sell. In addition, governmental and cost-containment pressures regarding the dispensing of generic equivalents will likely result in generic substitution and competition generally for our branded pharmaceutical products. We attempt to mitigate the effect of this substitution through, among other things, creation of strong brand-name recognition and product-line extensions for our branded pharmaceutical products, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. We depend on a small number of distributors, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect. A small number of large wholesale drug distributors account for a significant portion of our gross sales, net revenues and accounts receivable. The following three wholesalers –AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal and McKesson – accounted for approximately 58% of total gross sales and 42% of total net revenues in 2012, and 73% of gross trade receivables as of December 31, 2012. In addition to acting as distributors of our products, these three companies also distribute a broad range of health care products on behalf of many other companies. The loss of our relationship with one or more of these wholesalers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternative distribution source for end users, could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and results of operations. A change in purchasing patterns or inventory levels, an increase in returns of our products, penalties assessed against us for failure to supply or failure to maintain service levels, delays in purchasing products and delays in payment for products by one or more of these distributors also could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, results of operations and cash flows. 9 Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the continuing consolidation of our customer base. A significant proportion of our sales is made to relatively few retail drug chains, wholesalers, and managed care purchasing organizations. These customers are continuing to undergo significant consolidation. Such consolidation has provided and may continue to provide them with additional purchasing leverage, and consequently may increase the pricing pressures that we face. Additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies, and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions, enable those groups to extract price discounts on our products. Our net sales and quarterly growth comparisons may also be affected by fluctuations in the buying patterns of retail chains, major distributors and other trade buyers, whether resulting from seasonality, pricing, wholesaler buying decisions or other factors. In addition, since such a significant portion of our revenues is derived from relatively few customers, any financial difficulties experienced by a single customer, or any delay in receiving payments from a single customer, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive government regulations that increase our costs and could subject us to fines, prevent us from selling our products or prevent us from operating our facilities. Federal and state government agencies regulate virtually all aspects of our business. The development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record keeping, distribution, storage and advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from such activities, are subject to regulation by the FDA, DEA, FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. Similar state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over these activities. Noncompliance with applicable United States and/or state or local regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, penalties, mandatory recalls or seizures, suspensions of production, recommendations by the FDA against governmental contracts and criminal prosecution. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New, modified and additional regulations, statutes or legal interpretation, if any, could, among other things, require changes to manufacturing methods, expanded or different labeling, recall, replacement or discontinuation of certain products, additional record keeping procedures and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and additional scientific substantiation. Such changes or new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to regulation by the FDA. All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us, are subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the FDC Act. Under the FDC Act, the federal government has extensive administrative and judicial enforcement authority over the activities of finished drug product manufacturers to ensure compliance with FDA regulations. This authority includes, but is not limited to, the authority to initiate judicial action to seize unapproved or non-complying products, to enjoin non-complying activities, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMP, to recall products, to seek civil and monetary penalties and to criminally prosecute violators. Other enforcement activities include refusal to approve product applications, withdrawal of previously approved applications or prohibition on marketing of certain grandfathered products. Any such enforcement activities, especially the restriction or prohibition on sales of products we market or the halting of our manufacturing operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the FDA or other government agencies having regulatory authority over pharmaceutical products may request us to voluntarily or involuntarily conduct product recalls due to disputed labeling claims, manufacturing issues, quality defects or for other reasons. Restriction or prohibition on sales, halting of manufacturing operations, recalls of our pharmaceutical products or other enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such actions, in certain circumstances, may constitute an event of default under the terms of our various financing arrangements. We must obtain approval from the FDA for each pharmaceutical product that we market. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy, and approval is never certain. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on marketability and profitability of the new products. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA to assure regulatory compliance regarding the manufacturing, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA imposes stringent mandatory requirements on the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products to ensure their safety and efficacy. The FDA also regulates drug labeling and the advertising of prescription drugs. A finding by a governmental agency or court that we are not in compliance with FDA requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 If the FDA changes its regulatory position, it could force us to delay or suspend our manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain products. FDA interpretations of existing or pending regulations and standards may change over time with the advancement of associated technologies, industry trends, and/or prevailing scientific rationale. If the FDA changes its regulatory position due to such factors, it could result in delay or suspension of the manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain of our products. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be granted and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. Any change in the FDA’s enforcement policy or any decision by the FDA to require an approved NDA or ANDA for one of our products not currently subject to the approved NDA or ANDA requirements or any delay in the FDA approving an NDA or ANDA for one of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive DEA regulation, which could result in our being fined or otherwise penalized. We also manufacture and sell drugs which are “controlled substances” as defined in the federal Controlled Substances Act and similar state laws, which impose, among other things, certain licensing, security and record keeping requirements administered by the DEA and similar state agencies, as well as quotas for the manufacture, purchase and sale of controlled substances. The DEA could limit or reduce the amount of controlled substances which we are permitted to manufacture and market or issue fines and penalties against us for purported non-compliance with DEA regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently enacted and future healthcare law and policy changes may adversely affect our business. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. This health care reform legislation is intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. As examples, the current legislation include measures that would (i) significantly increase Medicaid rebates through both the expansion of the program and significant increases in rebates; (ii) substantially expand the Public Health System (340B) program to allow other entities to purchase prescription drugs at substantial discounts; (iii) extend the Medicaid rebate rate to a significant portion of Managed Medicaid enrollees; (iv) assess a 50% rebate on Medicaid Part D spending in the coverage gap for branded and authorized generic prescription drugs; and (v) levy a significant excise tax on the industry to fund the healthcare reform. While the aforementioned healthcare reform legislation may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, such insurance mandate does not commence until January 2014, and the healthcare reform legislation also restructures payments to Medicare managed care plans and reduces reimbursements to many third-party payers. Accordingly, the timing on the insurance mandate, the change in the Medicaid rebate levels, the additional fees imposed on us to the extent we market branded drugs, other compliance obligations, and the reduced reimbursement levels to institutional customers may result in a loss of revenue and could adversely affect our business. While we will not know the full effects of this health care reform legislation until applicable federal and state agencies issue regulations or guidance under the new law and the new law has been fully implemented, it appears likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, especially under the Medicare program, and to increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. The sales of our products depend in part on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers such as government health administration authorities, private health insurers, health maintenance organizations including pharmacy benefit managers (“PBMs”) and other health care-related organizations. We expect both federal and state governments in the U.S. and foreign governments to continue to propose and pass new legislation, rules and regulations designed to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare while expanding individual healthcare benefits. Existing regulations that affect the price of pharmaceutical and other medical products may also change before any of our products are approved for marketing. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we receive for any product we develop in the future. In addition, PBMs and other third-party payers are increasingly challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of medical products and services. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved pharmaceutical products. Our products may not be considered cost effective, or adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize a return on our investments. All of these may harm our ability to market our products and generate profits. Our growth and profitability is dependent on our ability to successfully utilize our existing cash reserves and operating cash flows to complete strategic acquisitions or to identify, acquire or develop, new products to market and distribute. We continue to seek growth opportunities, either by completing strategic acquisitions or by developing and introducing new pharmaceutical products. Continued improvement in our financial performance is dependent on our ability to introduce new products on an ongoing basis, whether developed internally or by third party partners, or acquired from other companies. Any delays or an inability to successfully identify suitable acquisition targets, or acquire or develop, and market and distribute new products, or acquisition or development of new products that do not yield sufficient margins, may result in adverse financial consequences to our business. 11 We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our acquisitions and may face difficulties in integrating them, which could adversely affect our operating results, increase costs and place a significant strain on our management. If we fail to manage the integration of our domestic and international acquisitions and achieve expected synergies, our business could be disrupted and our operating results could be negatively impacted. The operating success of both our domestic and international acquisitions involves the integration of products, processes and personnel into our existing model. In addition, the integration of international acquisitions requires both establishing and training a local management team and overseeing the operations remotely, and can involve cultural, monetary and systems challenges. Our personnel, systems, procedures, or controls may not be adequate to support both our ongoing business and the acquired businesses. If our newly-acquired businesses require a disproportionate share of our resources and management’s attention, our overall financial results may suffer. We have entered into several strategic business alliances that may not result in marketable products. We have entered into several strategic business alliances that have been formed to supply us with low cost finished dosage form products. We have entered into various purchase and supply agreements and license agreements that are all designed to provide finished dosage form products that can be marketed through our distribution pipeline. There can be no assurance that these agreements will result in additional FDA-approved ANDAs or NDAs, or that we will be able to market any such additional products at a profit. In addition, any clinical trial expenses that we may incur in connection with these strategic business alliances may negatively impact our financial results. Failure to obtain regulatory certification of our manufacturing plant in India for production of pharmaceutical products for export to the United States, as well as other regulated world markets, could impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate a manufacturing campus in Paonta Sahib, India, which we acquired through a business combination in 2012. The manufacturing units within this campus were built to the standards of regulated markets, including the United States, but they are not currently approved by the FDA to manufacture products for export to the United States. It is our intention to obtain certification from the FDA and other regulatory authorities to allow this facility to manufacture products for export to the United States and other regulated world markets. Obtaining such certification in a timely manner is critical to our sustaining our growth. An inability to obtain or maintain such certification could restrict our ability to achieve our growth objectives, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our operations in India may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies; any reversal of India’s recent economic liberalization and deregulation policies; as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In addition, India is known to have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in some circumstances, anti-bribery laws may conflict with some local customs and practices. As a result of our policy to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that are not subject to, or do not comply with, such laws. We may not generate cash flow sufficient to pay interest on our outstanding convertible senior notes or repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change. In June 2011, we issued $120.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the “Notes”). The Notes require us to make semi-annual coupon interest payments of $2.1 million on June 1 and December 1 of each year until the Notes mature on June 1, 2016. If we do not generate sufficient operating cash flows to fund these payments or obtain additional funding from external sources at acceptable terms, we may not have sufficient funds to satisfy our interest payment obligations when those obligations are due which would place us in default under the Indenture (as defined below). If a fundamental change (as defined in the Indenture) occurs, holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase their Notes. If we fail to repurchase the Notes when required, we will be in default under the Indenture. Availability under our Credit Agreement may be restricted if we fail to meet our covenant requirements. We are party to a revolving Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., (the “Agent”) and other financial institutions (collectively with the Agent, the “BoA Lenders”) through which we obtained a $20.0 million revolving line of credit (the “BoA Credit Facility”), which includes a $2.0 million letter of credit facility. We may request expansion of the BoA Credit Facility from time to time in increments of at least $5.0 million up to a maximum commitment of $35.0 million, so long as no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. As of December 31, 2012, no amounts or letters of credit were outstanding under the BoA Credit Facility. 12 Availability under the BoA Credit Facility is equal to the lesser of (a) $20.0 million reduced by outstanding letter of credit obligations or (b) the amount of a Borrowing Base (as defined in the BoA Credit Agreement) determined by reference to the value of the borrowers’ eligible accounts receivable, eligible inventory and fixed assets as of the closing date and the end of each calendar month thereafter. The BoA Credit Agreement contains representations and warranties, and affirmative and negative covenants customary for financings of this type, including, but not limited to, limitations on: distributions; additional borrowings, liens and guarantees; additional investments and asset sales; and fundamental changes to corporate structure or organization documents. The financial covenants require the Borrowers to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.1 to 1.0 during any period commencing on the date that an event of default occurs or availability under the BoA Credit Agreement is less than 15% of the aggregate BoA Lenders’ commitments under the BoA Credit Agreement. In addition, we must periodically provide to the Agent financial statements, compliance certificates and budget projections. Should we fail to maintain compliance with these covenants, availability under the Credit Agreement could be restricted which would negatively impact our liquidity and may require us to seek additional sources of capital in order to maintain our continuing operations or to fund growth opportunities. We may need to obtain additional capital to continue to grow our business. We may require additional funds in order to materially grow our business. We require substantial liquidity to implement long-term cost savings and productivity improvement plans, continue capital spending to improve our manufacturing plants to increase capacity and support product development programs, meet scheduled term debt and lease maturities, and run our normal business operations. We may seek additional funds through public and private financing, including equity and debt offerings. However, adequate funds through the financial markets or from other sources may not be available to us when needed or on favorable terms. Without sufficient additional capital funding, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our product development, manufacturing, acquisition, licensing and marketing initiatives, or operations. Further, such additional financing, if obtained, may require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the common stock and result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of the common stockholders and could include covenants and restrictions that limit our ability to operate or expand our business in a manner that we deem to be in our best interest. Our industry is very competitive. Additionally, changes in technology could render our products obsolete. We face significant competition from other pharmaceutical companies, including major pharmaceutical companies with financial resources substantially greater than ours, in developing, acquiring, manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. The selling prices of pharmaceutical products typically decline as competition increases. Further, other products now in use, under development or acquired by other pharmaceutical companies, may be more effective or offered at lower prices than our current or future products. The industry is characterized by rapid technological change that may render our products obsolete, and competitors may develop their products more rapidly than we can. Competitors may also be able to complete the regulatory process sooner, and therefore, may begin to market their products in advance of ours. We believe that competition in sales of our products is based primarily on price, service and technical capabilities. There can be no assurance that: (i) we will be able to develop or acquire commercially attractive pharmaceutical products; (ii) additional competitors will not enter the market; (iii) our existing products will not be rendered obsolete by the introduction or switch to generic of competing products; or (iv) competition from other pharmaceutical companies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by general economic conditions, a volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If equity and credit market conditions prove unfavorable, we may have difficulty obtaining desired debt or equity financing, or obtaining such financing may be more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. A prolonged or profound economic downturn could result in adverse changes to product reimbursement, pricing or sales levels, which would harm our operating results. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon development plans. Moreover, our stock price may decline due to the volatility of the stock market and general economic conditions. 13 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, timely file our periodic reports, maintain our reporting status or prevent fraud. In connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012, we concluded there is a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting related to deficiencies in the financial statement close process. Under standards established by the Public Company Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected or corrected on a timely basis. We are working to remediate the material weakness. We have begun taking steps and plan to take additional measures to remediate the underlying causes of the material weakness, primarily through the continued development and implementation of formal policies, improved processes and documented procedures, as well as the hiring of additional finance personnel. The actions that we are taking are subject to ongoing senior management review, as well as audit committee oversight. Although we plan to complete this remediation as quickly as possible, we cannot at this time estimate how long it will take, and our initiatives may not prove to be successful in remediating this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Our management or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. The existence of internal control material weaknesses may result in current and potential stockholders losing confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business, the market price of our common stock, and our ability to retain our current, or obtain new, alliance and collaboration agreements’ partners. In addition, the existence of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to timely file periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The inability to timely file periodic reports could result in the SEC revoking the registration of our common stock, which would prohibit us from listing or having our stock quoted on any public market. This would have an adverse effect on our business and stock price by limiting the publicly available information regarding us and greatly reducing the ability of our stockholders to sell or trade our common stock. We may become involved in legal proceedings from time to time which may result in losses, damage to our business and reputation and place a strain on our internal resources. In the ordinary course of our business, we may be involved in legal proceedings with both private parties and certain government agencies, including FDA. Litigation may result in verdicts against us, which may include significant monetary awards, judgments that certain of our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable and injunctions preventing the manufacture, marketing and sale of our products. If disputes are resolved unfavorably, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any litigation, whether or not successful, may damage our reputation. Furthermore, we are likely to incur substantial expense in defending these lawsuits and the time demands of such lawsuits could divert management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and interfere with our normal operations. In the normal course of business, we periodically enter into employment agreements, legal settlements, and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. We maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under these indemnification provisions. However, should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed our coverage or should coverage be denied, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights and may prevent or delay us from manufacturing and selling some of our new products. The manufacture, use and sale of new products that are the subject of conflicting patent rights have been the subject of substantial litigation in the pharmaceutical industry. Pharmaceutical companies with patented brand products frequently sue companies that file applications to produce generic equivalents of their patented brand products for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, which may delay or prevent the entry of such generic products into the market. Generally, a generic drug may not be marketed until the applicable patent(s) on the brand name drug expire or are held to be not infringed, invalid, or unenforceable. When we or our development partners submit an ANDA to the FDA for approval of a generic drug, we and/or our development partners must certify either (1) that there is no patent listed by the FDA as covering the relevant brand product, (2) that any patent listed as covering the brand product has expired, (3) that the patent listed as covering the brand product will expire prior to the marketing of the generic product, in which case the ANDA will not be finally approved by the FDA until the expiration of such patent, or (4) that any patent listed as covering the brand drug is invalid or will not be infringed by the manufacture, sale or use of the generic product for which the ANDA is submitted. 14 Under any circumstance in which an act of infringement is alleged to occur, there is a risk that a brand pharmaceutical company may sue us for alleged patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Also, competing pharmaceutical companies may file lawsuits against us or our strategic partners alleging patent infringement or may file declaratory judgment actions of non-infringement, invalidity, or unenforceability against us relating to our own patents. We have been sued for patent infringement related to several of our current ANDA filings and we anticipate that we will be sued once we file ANDAs for other products in our pipeline. Such litigation is often costly and time-consuming and could result in a substantial delay in, or prevent, the introduction and/or marketing of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the parties to patent and intellectual property disputes in the pharmaceutical industry have often settled their disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, the costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include ongoing royalties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that the necessary licenses would be available to us on terms we believe to be acceptable. Our patents and proprietary rights may not adequately protect our products and processes. The patent and proprietary rights position of competitors in the pharmaceutical industry generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and is the subject of much litigation. There can be no assurance that any patent applications or other proprietary rights, including licensed rights, relating to our potential products or processes will result in patents being issued or other proprietary rights secured, or that the resulting patents or proprietary rights, if any, will provide protection against competitors who: (i) successfully challenge our patents or proprietary rights; (ii) obtain patents or proprietary rights that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business; or (iii) are able to circumvent our patent or proprietary rights position. It is possible that other parties have conducted or are conducting research and could make discoveries of pharmaceutical formulations or processes that would precede any discoveries made by us, which could prevent us from obtaining patent or other protection for these discoveries or marketing products developed therefrom. Consequently, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop pharmaceutical products similar to or rendering obsolete those that we are planning to develop, or duplicate any of our products. Our inability to obtain patents for, or other proprietary rights in, our products and processes or the ability of competitors to circumvent or obsolete our patents or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, virtually all the drug products that we market are generics, with essentially no patent or proprietary rights attached. While this fact allowed us the opportunity to develop or to purchase and obtain FDA approval to market our generic products, it also allows competing drug companies to do the same. Should multiple additional drug companies choose to develop and market the same generic products that we actively market, our profit margins could decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chairman of our Board of Directors is subject to conflicts of interest, and through his stock ownership and position as Chairman has substantial influence over our business strategies and policies. John N. Kapoor, Ph.D., the Chairman of our Board of Directors and a principal shareholder, is the President of EJ Financial Enterprises, Inc. (“EJ Financial”), a health care consulting investment company. EJ Financial is involved in the management of health care companies in various fields, and Dr. Kapoor is involved in various capacities with the management and operation of these companies. The John N. Kapoor Trust dated 9/20/89 (the “Kapoor Trust”), the beneficiary and sole trustee of which is Dr. Kapoor, is a principal shareholder of each of these companies. As a result, Dr. Kapoor does not devote his full time to our business. Although such companies do not currently compete directly with us, certain companies with which EJ Financial is involved are in the pharmaceutical business. Discoveries made by one or more of these companies could render our products less competitive or obsolete. Potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, Dr. Kapoor beneficially owns approximately 31% of our common stock. As a result, Dr. Kapoor can strongly influence, and potentially control, the outcome of our corporate actions, including the election of our directors and transactions involving a change of control. This concentrated control limits other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take actions that other shareholders do not view as beneficial. Further, decisions made by Dr. Kapoor with respect to his and his related parties’ ownership or trading of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and an adverse effect on our business. We depend on key executive officers and must continue to attract and retain key personnel in order to compete successfully. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key executive officers. The loss of one or more of our key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Further, our performance depends, to a large extent, on the continued service of our key research and development personnel, other technical employees, managers and sales personnel and our ability to continue to attract and retain such personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly for highly motivated and experienced research and development and other technical personnel. We are facing increasing competition from companies with greater financial resources for such personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled personnel in the future, and the inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, and on our results of operations and financial condition. We may implement product recalls and could be exposed to significant product liability claims; we may have to pay significant amounts to those harmed and may suffer from adverse publicity as a result. The manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceuticals involves an inherent risk that our products, or items within our products, may prove to be defective and cause a health risk. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. We have recalled products in the past and, based on this experience, believe that the occurrence of a recall could result in significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and adverse publicity, all of which could harm our ability to market our products. For example, we were prompted to initiate one product recall of our Cyanide Antidote Kit during 2008 due to recall notification by Becton, Dickinson and Company of their 60ml syringe. Our recall of the Cyanide Antidote Kit was monitored by FDA and has resulted in no patient impact and no shortage of product supply to the marketplace. There were no product recalls during 2010, 2011 or 2012. Although we are not currently subject to any material product liability proceedings, we may incur material liabilities relating to product liability claims in the future. Even meritless claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees and divert the attention of the key employees from running our business. Successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have product liability insurance in the amount of $10,000,000 for aggregate annual claims with a $100,000 deductible per incident and a $500,000 aggregate annual deductible. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage will be sufficient to fully cover potential claims. Additionally, there can be no assurance that adequate insurance coverage will be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. FDA may require us to stop marketing certain grandfathered drugs. We market several generic prescription products which do not have formal FDA approvals because these products have been grandfathered. These products are non-application drugs that are manufactured and marketed without FDA-issued ANDAs or NDAs on the basis of their having been marketed by industry prior to the 1962 Amendment of the FDC Act. We marketed eight such products during 2012, generating net sales revenue of $20.8 million. Following enactment of the FDC Act in 1938, drugs on the market prior to that time were exempted or “grandfathered” and manufacturers were not required to file an NDA. Recently, FDA has increased its efforts to force companies to file and seek FDA approval for grandfathered products. Efforts have included issuing notices to companies currently manufacturing these products to cease its distribution of said products. On October 2, 2012, we received a warning letter from FDA citing that we were manufacturing Pilocarpine Hydrochloride Ophthalmic Solution (“PHOS”), a long grandfathered drug, without an approved NDA. We fully cooperated with the FDA and discontinued selling PHOS. No enforcement action was initiated and no fines were assessed by FDA against us and the loss of revenue associated with the discontinuation of PHOS is expected to be insignificant. Further, in the second quarter of 2012, we filed an ANDA for PHOS, which has been granted expedited review. If FDA issues additional warning letters with respect one or more of our grandfathered products, we may be forced to discontinue marketing the affected products, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. The FDA may authorize sales of some prescription pharmaceuticals on a non-prescription basis, which would reduce the profitability of our prescription products. From time to time, the FDA elects to permit sales of some pharmaceuticals currently sold on a prescription basis, without a prescription. FDA approval of the sale of our products without a prescription would reduce demand for our competing prescription products and, accordingly, reduce our profits. 16 Our revenues depend on sale of products manufactured by third parties, which we cannot control. We rely on external third parties to manufacture certain of the products we sell. Currently, this risk is limited to several of our products. However, we expect this risk to become more significant as we receive approvals for new products to be manufactured through our strategic partnerships and as we seek additional growth opportunities beyond the capacity and capabilities of our current manufacturing facilities. If we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers for these products on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute such products as planned. Further, no assurance can be given that the manufacturers we use will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of our products to meet our needs or that the products supplied to us will meet our specifications. Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source. We require a supply of quality raw materials and components to manufacture and package pharmaceutical products for ourselves and for third parties with which we have contracted. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source and interruptions in the supply of these raw materials and components could disrupt our manufacturing of specific products and cause our sales and profitability to decline. Further, in the case of many of our ANDAs and NDAs, only one supplier of raw materials has been identified. Because FDA approval of drugs requires manufacturers to specify their proposed suppliers of active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials in their applications, FDA approval of any new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the specified supplier. The qualification of a new supplier could delay our development and marketing efforts. If for any reason we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials or components required to produce and package our products, we may not be able to manufacture our products as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could experience business interruptions at our manufacturing facilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We manufacture drug products at one international and two domestic manufacturing facilities. Any one or more of these facilities may be forced to shut down or may be unable to operate at full capacity as a result of hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, storms and other extreme weather events as well as strikes, war, violent upheavals, terrorist acts and other force majeure events. For example, our manufacturing plant in Somerset, New Jersey was shut down for approximately two weeks in October/November 2012 as a result of power outages and related business disruptions caused by Superstorm Sandy. A significant disruption at any of these facilities, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship drug products to the market on a timely basis, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. The testing required for the regulatory approval of our products is conducted by independent third parties. Any failure by any of these third parties to perform this testing properly and in a timely manner may have an adverse effect upon our ability to obtain regulatory approvals. Our applications for the regulatory approval of our products incorporate the results of testing and other information that is conducted or gathered by independent third parties (including, for example, manufacturers of raw materials, testing laboratories, contract research organizations or independent research facilities). Our ability to obtain regulatory approval of the products being tested is dependent upon the quality of the work performed by these third parties, the quality of the third parties’ facilities, and the accuracy of the information provided by third parties. We have little or no control over any of these factors. If this testing is not performed properly, our ability to obtain regulatory approvals could be restricted or delayed. We may be subject to disruptions or failures in our information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and network infrastructures to operate our business. We also hold data in various data center facilities upon which our business depends. A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, system implementations or upgrades, computer viruses, third-party security breaches, employee error, theft or misuse, malfeasance, power disruptions, natural disasters or accidents could cause breaches of data security, loss of intellectual property and critical data and the release and misappropriation of sensitive competitive information. Any of these events could result in the loss of key information, impair our production and supply chain processes, harm our competitive position, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy any damages and ultimately materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we have implemented a number of protective measures, such measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to prevent or fully address the adverse effect of such events. 17 Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our U.S. operations are currently subject to the FCPA. We are required to comply with the FCPA, which generally prohibits covered entities and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or other benefits. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on publicly traded U.S. corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of “off books” slush funds from which such improper payments can be made. If our employees, third-party sales representatives or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other remedial measures, including further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, as well as potential personnel changes and disciplinary actions. Any failure to comply with the complex reporting and payment obligations under Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs may result in litigation or sanctions. We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, false claims, marketing and pricing laws. We are also subject to Medicaid and other government reporting and payment obligations that are highly complex and somewhat ambiguous. Violations of these laws and reporting obligations are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions and exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. The recent healthcare reform legislation made several changes to the federal anti-kickback statute, false claims laws, and health care fraud statute such as increasing penalties and making it easier for the government to bring sanctions against pharmaceutical companies. If our past, present or future operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or other similar governmental regulations, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and negatively impact our financial results. Further, if there is a change in laws, regulations or administrative or judicial interpretations, we may have to change our business practices or our existing business practices could be challenged as unlawful, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). These requirements are extensive. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exercise of warrants and options, or issuance of shares pursuant to our convertible debt, may have a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise or conversion of any warrants or stock options is in excess of the various exercise or conversion prices of such convertible securities, exercise or conversion of such convertible securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, holders of our outstanding warrants and options would receive 16,919,342 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $2.91 per share. Any additional financing that we secure likely will require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock which may result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common shareholders. Our earnings per share will be diluted if the average closing price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price (currently $8.76 per share) on our convertible Notes. In addition, the Notes become convertible if the closing trading price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the Conversion Price for 20 of the last 30 trading days of any calendar quarter through the remaining term of the Notes. If the Notes become convertible and are surrendered for conversion, we have the option of satisfying all or a portion of our obligation in shares of our common stock, which could result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common shareholders. 18 We may issue preferred stock and the terms of such preferred stock may reduce the market value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to a total of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may authorize issuance of additional shares of preferred stock and the terms of such preferred stock without further action by holders of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of preferred stock, it could affect the rights or reduce the market value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. We continue to seek capital for the growth of our business, and this additional capital may be raised through the issuance of additional preferred stock. We experience significant quarterly fluctuation of our results of operations, which may increase the volatility of our stock price. Our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the timing of the development and marketing of new pharmaceutical products, the failure to develop such products, delays in obtaining government approvals, including FDA approval of NDAs or ANDAs for our products, expenditures to comply with governmental requirements for manufacturing facilities, expenditures incurred to acquire and promote pharmaceutical products, changes in our customer base, a customer’s termination of a substantial account, the availability and cost of raw materials, interruptions in supply by third-party manufacturers, seasonal or cyclical fluctuations in the sales of certain of our products, the introduction of new products or technological innovations by our competitors, loss of key personnel, changes in the mix of products sold by us, changes in sales and marketing expenditures, competitive pricing pressures, expenditures incurred to pursue or contest pending or threatened legal action and our ability to meet our financial covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in avoiding losses in any future period. Such fluctuations may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. Further, concentrated ownership of our common stock creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. As such, the sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 