Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have experienced recent operating losses, working capital deficiencies and negative cash flows from operations, and these losses and deficiencies may continue in the future. Our recent operating losses may continue in the future and there can be no assurance that our financial outlook will improve. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our operating losses were $19,815,000, $4,905,000 and $7,479,000, respectively. We generated a negative cash flow from operations in 2007 of $24,891,000, however we generated positive flows of $2,509,000 and negative flows of $148,000 in 2006 and 2005, respectively. If our results of operations do not improve we would have to implement a restructuring plan in order to preserve our cash flow and continue business operations. We have invested significant resources in the development of lyophilization manufacturing capability, and we may not realize the benefit of these efforts and expenditures. We are in the final stages of completing an expansion of our Decatur, Illinois manufacturing facility to add capacity to provide lyophilization manufacturing services, a manufacturing capability we currently do not have. As of December 31, 2007, we had spent approximately $22,601,000 on the lyophilization facility expansion and anticipate the need to spend approximately $100,000 of additional funds which will primarily be used for testing and validation as the major capital equipment items are currently in place. In December 2006, we placed the sterile solutions portion of this operation in service which augments our existing production capacities. The remaining $5,364,000 of construction in progress, which is specific to lyophilization (freeze-dry) operations, is awaiting final validation testing for us to place this equipment into commercial production. We are working toward the development of an internal Abbreviated New Drug Application (“ANDA”) lyophilized product pipeline. However, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in completing development of lyophilization capability, or that other intervening events will not occur that reduce or eliminate the anticipated benefits from such capability. For instance, the market for lyophilized products could significantly diminish or be eliminated, or new technological advances could render the lyophilization process obsolete, prior to our entry into the market. There can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits from our significant investment into lyophilization capability at our Decatur manufacturing facility, and our failure to do so could significantly limit our ability to grow our business in the future. We depend on a small number of distributors, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect. A small number of large wholesale drug distributors account for a large portion of our gross sales, revenues and accounts receivable. The following three distributors, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal and McKesson, accounted for approximately 67% of total gross sales and 53% of total revenues in 2007, and 69% of gross trade receivables as of December 31, 2007. In addition to acting as distributors of our products, these three companies also distribute a broad range of health care products for many other companies. The loss of one or more of these distributors, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternative distribution source for end users, could have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations and lead to a violation of debt covenants. A change in purchasing patterns, inventory levels, increases in returns of our products, delays in purchasing products and delays in payment for products by one or more distributors also could have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Certain of our directors are subject to conflicts of interest. Dr. John N. Kapoor, Ph.D., the chairman of our board of directors, our chief executive officer from March 2001 to December 2002, and a principal shareholder, is affiliated with EJ Financial Enterprises, Inc. (“EJ Financial”), a health care consulting investment company. EJ Financial is involved in the management of health care companies in various fields, and Dr. Kapoor is involved in various capacities with the management and operation of these companies. The John N. Kapoor Trust dated 9/20/89 (the “Kapoor Trust”), the beneficiary and sole trustee of which is Dr. Kapoor, is a principal shareholder of each of these companies. As a result, Dr. Kapoor does not devote his full time to our business. Although such companies do not currently compete directly with us, certain companies with which EJ Financial is involved are in the pharmaceutical business. Discoveries made by one or more of these companies could render our products less competitive or obsolete. Potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital to grow our business and such funds may not be available to us. We may require additional funds to grow our business. However, adequate funds through the financial markets or from other sources may not be available when needed or on terms favorable to us due to our recent financial history. Further, the terms of such additional financing, if obtained, likely will require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common stockholders and could include covenants and restrictions that limit our ability to operate or expand our business in a manner that we deem to be in our best interest. Our growth depends on our ability to timely develop additional pharmaceutical products and manufacturing capabilities. Our strategy for growth is dependent upon our ability to develop products that can be promoted through current marketing and distributions channels and, when appropriate, the enhancement of such marketing and distribution channels. We may not meet our anticipated time schedule for the filing of ANDAs and NDAs or may decide not to pursue ANDAs or NDAs that we have submitted or anticipate submitting. Our internal development of new pharmaceutical products is dependent upon the research and development capabilities of our personnel and our strategic business alliance infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we or our strategic business alliances will successfully develop new pharmaceutical products or, if developed, successfully integrate new products into our existing product lines. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will receive all necessary FDA approvals or that such approvals will not involve delays, which adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. Our failure to develop new products, to maintain substantial compliance with FDA compliance guidelines or to receive FDA approval of ANDAs or NDAs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have entered into several strategic business alliances which may not result in marketable products. We have entered several strategic business alliances that have been formed to supply us with low cost finished dosage form products. Since 2004, we have entered into various purchase and supply agreements, license agreements, and a joint venture that are all designed to provide finished dosage form products that can be marketed through our distribution pipeline. However, there can be no assurance that any of these agreements will result in FDA-approved ANDAs or NDAs, or that we will be able to market any such finished dosage form products at a profit. In addition, any clinical trial expenses that we incur may result in adverse financial consequences to our business. Our growth and profitability is dependent on our ability to successfully market and distribute new products, including vaccine products, through various distribution channels. We continue to seek out and introduce new pharmaceutical/healthcare products. Our improved financial performance is dependent on new product introductions, such as the biologies and vaccine products discussed above. Any delays or an inability to successfully market and distribute such products may result in adverse financial consequences to our business. 10 Table of Contents Our success depends on the development of generic and off-patent pharmaceutical products which are particularly susceptible to competition, substitution policies and reimbursement policies. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate which branded pharmaceuticals are about to come off patent and thus permit us to develop, manufacture and market equivalent generic pharmaceutical products. Generic pharmaceuticals must meet the same quality standards as branded pharmaceuticals, even though these equivalent pharmaceuticals are sold at prices that are significantly lower than that of branded pharmaceuticals. Generic substitution is regulated by the federal and state governments, as is reimbursement for generic drug dispensing. There can be no assurance that substitution will be permitted for newly approved generic drugs or that such products will be subject to government reimbursement. In addition, generic products that third parties develop may render our generic products noncompetitive or obsolete. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consistently bring generic pharmaceutical products to market quickly and efficiently in the future. An increase in competition in the sale of generic pharmaceutical products or our failure to bring such products to market before our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there is no proprietary protection for most of the branded pharmaceutical products that either we or other pharmaceutical companies sell. In addition, governmental and cost-containment pressures regarding the dispensing of generic equivalents will likely result in generic substitution and competition generally for our branded pharmaceutical products. We attempt to mitigate the effect of this substitution through, among other things, creation of strong brand-name recognition and product-line extensions for our branded pharmaceutical products, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. We can be subject to legal proceedings against us, which may prove costly and time-consuming even if meritless. In the ordinary course of our business, we can be involved in legal actions with both private parties and certain government agencies. To the extent that our personnel may have to spend time and resources to pursue or contest any matters that may be asserted from time to time in the future, this represents time and money that is not available for other actions that we might otherwise pursue which could be beneficial to our future. In addition, to the extent that we are unsuccessful in any legal proceedings, the consequences could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Our revenues depend on sale of products manufactured by third parties, which we cannot control. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of products manufactured by third parties, including our competitors in some instances. There can be no assurance that our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of such products will not adversely affect our profit margins or our ability to develop and deliver our products on a timely and competitive basis. If for any reason we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute certain of our products as planned. No assurance can be made that the manufacturers we use will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of our products or that the products supplied to us will meet our specifications. Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dependence on key executive officers. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key executive officers. We are particularly dependent upon Dr. John N. Kapoor, Ph.D., chairman of our board of directors, and Mr. Arthur S. Przybyl, our chief executive officer. The inability to attract and retain key executive officers, or the loss of one or more of our key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must continue to attract and retain key personnel to be able to compete successfully. Our performance depends, to a large extent, on the continued service of our key research and development personnel, other technical employees, managers and sales personnel and our ability to continue to attract and retain such personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly for highly motivated and experienced research and development and other technical personnel. We are facing increasing competition from companies with greater financial resources for such personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled personnel in the future, and the inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to extensive government regulations that increase our costs and could subject us to fines, prevent us from selling our products or prevent us from operating our facilities. Federal and state government agencies regulate virtually all aspects of our business. The development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record keeping, distribution, storage and advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from such activities, are subject to regulation by the FDA, DEA, FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. Similar state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over these activities. Noncompliance with applicable United States and/or state or local regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, penalties, mandatory recalls or seizures, suspensions of production, recommendations by the FDA against governmental contracts and criminal prosecution. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New, modified and additional regulations, statutes or legal interpretation, if any, could, among other things, require changes to manufacturing methods, expanded or different labeling, the recall, replacement or discontinuation of certain products, additional record keeping and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. Such changes or new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1. Business — “Government Regulation.” FDA regulations. All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us, are subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the FDC Act. Under the FDC Act, the federal government has extensive administrative and judicial enforcement authority over the activities of finished drug product manufacturers to ensure compliance with FDA regulations. This authority includes, but is not limited to, the authority to initiate court action to seize unapproved or non-complying products, to enjoin non-complying activities, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMP, to recall products, to seek civil and monetary penalties and to criminally prosecute violators. Other enforcement activities include refusal to approve product applications or the withdrawal of previously approved applications. Any such enforcement activities, including the restriction or prohibition on sales of products we market or the halting of our manufacturing operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, product recalls may be issued at our discretion, or at the request of the FDA or other government agencies having regulatory authority for pharmaceutical products. Recalls may occur due to disputed labeling claims, manufacturing issues, quality defects or other reasons. No assurance can be given that restriction or prohibition on sales, halting of manufacturing operations or recalls of our pharmaceutical products will not occur in the future. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such actions, in certain circumstances, could constitute an event of default under the terms of our various financing relationships. We must obtain approval from the FDA for each pharmaceutical product that we market which requires a regulatory submission. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA to assure regulatory compliance regarding the manufacturing, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA imposes stringent mandatory requirements on the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products to ensure their safety and efficacy. The FDA also regulates drug labeling and the advertising of prescription drugs. A finding by a governmental agency or court that we are not in compliance with FDA requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We were previously subject to an FDA Warning Letter which the FDA issued to us in October 2000 which was subsequently removed in 2005. In March 2007, we were again subject to a warning letter at our Decatur facility which was removed in December 2007. See Item 1. Business – “FDA Warning Letter”. If the FDA changes its regulatory position, it could force us to delay or suspend our manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain products. We believe that all of our current products are in substantial compliance with FDA regulations and have received the requisite agency approvals for their manufacture and sale. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be granted and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. Any change in the FDA’s enforcement policy or any decision by the FDA to require an approved NDA or ANDA for one of our products not currently subject to the approved NDA or ANDA requirements or any delay in the FDA approving an NDA or ANDA for one of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents A number of products we market are “grandfathered” drugs that are permitted to be manufactured and marketed without FDA-issued ANDAs or NDAs on the basis of their having been marketed prior to enactment of relevant sections of the FDC Act and amendments thereto. The regulatory status of these products is subject to change and/or challenge by the FDA, which could establish new standards and limitations for manufacturing and marketing such products, or challenge the evidence of prior manufacturing and marketing upon which grandfathering status is based. Any such change in the status of a “grandfathered” product could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive DEA regulation, which could result in our being fined or otherwise penalized. We also manufacture and sell drugs which are “controlled substances” as defined in the federal Controlled Substances Act and similar state laws, which impose, among other things, certain licensing, security and record keeping requirements administered by the DEA and similar state agencies, as well as quotas for the manufacture, purchase and sale of controlled substances. The DEA could limit or reduce the amount of controlled substances which we are permitted to manufacture and market. See Item 1. Business – “DEA Regulation”. We may implement product recalls and could be exposed to significant product liability claims; we may have to pay significant amounts to those harmed and may suffer from adverse publicity as a result. The manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceuticals involves an inherent risk that our products may prove to be defective and cause a health risk. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. We have recalled products in the past and, based on this experience, believe that the occurrence of a recall could result in significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and adverse publicity, all of which could harm our ability to market our products. There were no product recalls in 2007, 2006 or 2005. Although we are not currently subject to any material product liability proceedings, we may incur material liabilities relating to product liability claims in the future. Even meritless claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees and divert the attention of the key employees from running our business. Successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have product liability insurance in the amount of $5,000,000 for aggregate annual claims with a $50,000 deductible per incident and a $250,000 aggregate annual deductible. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage will be sufficient to fully cover potential claims. Additionally, there can be no assurance that adequate insurance coverage will be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA may authorize sales of some prescription pharmaceuticals on a non-prescription basis, which would reduce the profitability of our prescription products. From time to time, the FDA elects to permit sales of some pharmaceuticals currently sold on a prescription basis, without a prescription. FDA approval of the sale of our products without a prescription would reduce demand for our competing prescription products and, accordingly, reduce our profits. Our industry is very competitive. Additionally, changes in technology could render our products obsolete. We face significant competition from other pharmaceutical companies, including major pharmaceutical companies with financial resources substantially greater than ours, in developing, acquiring, manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. The selling prices of pharmaceutical products typically decline as competition increases. Further, other products now in use, under development or acquired by other pharmaceutical companies, may be more effective or offered at lower prices than our current or future products. The industry is characterized by rapid technological change that may render our products obsolete, and competitors may develop their products more rapidly than we can. Competitors may also be able to complete the regulatory process sooner, and therefore, may begin to market their products in advance of our products. We believe that competition in sales of our products is based primarily on price, service and technical capabilities. There can be no assurance that: (i) we will be able to develop or acquire commercially attractive pharmaceutical products; (ii) additional competitors will not enter the market; or (iii) competition from other pharmaceutical companies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source. We require a supply of quality raw materials and components to manufacture and package pharmaceutical products for ourselves and for third parties with which we have contracted. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source and interruptions in the supply of these raw materials and components could disrupt our manufacturing of specific products and cause our sales and profitability to decline. Further, in the case of many of our ANDAs and NDAs, only one supplier of raw materials has been identified. Because FDA approval of drugs requires manufacturers to specify their proposed suppliers of active ingredients and certain packaging materials in their applications, FDA approval of any new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the specified supplier. The qualification of a new supplier could delay our development and marketing efforts. If for any reason we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials or components required to produce and package our products, we may not be able to manufacture our products as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our patents and proprietary rights may not adequately protect our products and processes. The patent and proprietary rights position of competitors in the pharmaceutical industry generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and is the subject of much litigation. There can be no assurance that any patent applications or other proprietary rights, including licensed rights, relating to our potential products or processes will result in patents being issued or other proprietary rights secured, or that the resulting patents or proprietary rights, if any, will provide protection against competitors who: (i) successfully challenge our patents or proprietary rights; (ii) obtain patents or proprietary rights that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business; or (iii) are able to circumvent our patent or proprietary rights position. It is possible that other parties have conducted or are conducting research and could make discoveries of pharmaceutical formulations or processes that would precede any discoveries made by us, which could prevent us from obtaining patent or other protection for these discoveries or marketing products developed there from. Consequently, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop pharmaceutical products similar to or obsoleting those that we are planning to develop, or duplicate any of our products. Our inability to obtain patents for, or other proprietary rights in, our products and processes or the ability of competitors to circumvent or obsolete our patents or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concentrated ownership of our common stock and our registration of shares for public sale creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. The sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have registered 72,785,437 shares held by certain of our investors for sale under registration statements on a Form S-1 and Form S-3 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Sales of these shares on the open market could cause the price of our stock to decline. Exercise of warrants and options may have a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise or conversion of any warrants or stock options is in excess of the various exercise or conversion prices of such convertible securities, exercise or conversion of such convertible securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Holders of our outstanding warrants and options would receive 6,908,743 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $4.74 per share. Any additional financing that we secure likely will require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock which may result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common shareholders. We may issue preferred stock and the terms of such preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to a total of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine whether to issue additional shares of preferred stock and the terms of such preferred stock without further action by holders of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of preferred stock, it could affect the rights or reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. We continue to seek capital for the growth of our business, and this additional capital may be raised through the issuance of additional preferred stock. 14 Table of Contents We experience significant quarterly fluctuation of our results of operations, which may increase the volatility of our stock price. Our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the timing of the development and marketing of new pharmaceutical products, the failure to develop such products, delays in obtaining government approvals, including FDA approval of NDAs or ANDAs for our products, expenditures to comply with governmental requirements for manufacturing facilities, expenditures incurred to acquire and promote pharmaceutical products, changes in our customer base, a customer’s termination of a substantial account, the availability and cost of raw materials, interruptions in supply by third-party manufacturers, the introduction of new products or technological innovations by our competitors, loss of key personnel, changes in the mix of products sold by us, changes in sales and marketing expenditures, competitive pricing pressures, expenditures incurred to pursue or contest pending or threatened legal action and our ability to meet our financial covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in avoiding losses in any future period. Such fluctuations may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. “Penny Stock” rules may make buying or selling our common stock difficult. As of March 7, 2008, the market price of our common stock exceeded $5.00 per share. However, there can be no guarantee that it will continue to do so. If our market price falls below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules would require that any broker-dealer that would have to recommend our common stock to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors, must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations would require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of our common stock. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). These requirements are extensive. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 