ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - -------------------------- Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. Information contained within this Form 10-K should be carefully considered by investors in light of the risk factors described below. In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could affect our financial condition or results of operations: Our future results may be adversely affected if Membership persistency or renewal rates are lower than our historical experience. We have over 20 years of actual historical experience to measure the expected retention of new members. These retention rates could be adversely affected by the quality of services delivered by provider law firms, the existence of competitive products or services, our ability to provide administrative services to members or other factors. If our Membership persistency or renewal rates are less than we have historically experienced, our cash flow, earnings and growth rates could be adversely affected. We may not be able to grow Memberships and revenues at the same rate as we have historically experienced and have recently experienced declines in new Membership sales and associate recruitment. Our year end active Memberships remained virtually unchanged at December 31, 2006 from December 31, 2005 and only increased 6% and 2% in the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Changes in net income for the same three years were 45%, (12%) and 2%, respectively. In years prior to 2004, we were able to grow Memberships more significantly. Our ability to grow Memberships and revenues is substantially dependent upon our ability to expand or enhance the productivity of our sales force, develop additional legal expense products, develop alternative marketing methods or expand geographically. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve increases in Membership and revenue growth comparable to our historical growth rates. We are dependent upon the continued active participation of our principal executive officer. Our success depends substantially on the continued active participation of our principal executive officer, Harland C. Stonecipher. Although our management includes other individuals with significant experience in our business, the loss of the services of Mr. Stonecipher could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is litigation pending that may have a material adverse effect on us if adversely determined. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." We are in a regulated industry and regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are regulated by or required to file with or obtain approval of State Insurance Departments, State Bar Associations and State Attorney General's Offices, depending on individual state positions regarding regulatory responsibility for legal service plans. Regulation of our activities is inconsistent among the various states in which we do business with some states regulating legal service plans as insurance or specialized legal service products and others regulating such plans as services. Such disparate regulation requires us to structure our Memberships and operations differently in certain states in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Our multi-level marketing strategy is also subject to U.S. federal, Canadian provincial and U.S. state regulation under laws relating to consumer protection, pyramid sales, business opportunity, lotteries and multi-level marketing. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission has proposed business opportunity regulations which may have an effect upon our method of operating in the United States, but such regulations are in the early stages of development and it is not possible to gauge the potential impact or the effective date at this time. Changes in the regulatory environment for our business could increase the compliance costs we incur in order to conduct our business or limit the jurisdictions in which we are able to conduct business. The business in which we operate is competitive. There are a number of existing and potential competitors that have the ability to offer competing products that could adversely affect our ability to grow. In addition, we may face competition from a growing number of Internet based legal sites with the potential to offer legal and related services at competitive prices. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See "Description of Business - Competition." We are dependent upon the success of our marketing force. Our principal method of product distribution is through multi-level marketing. The success of a multi-level marketing force is highly dependent upon our ability to offer a commission and organizational structure and sales training and incentive program that enable sales associates to recruit and develop other sales associates to create an organization. There are a number of other products and services that use multi-level marketing as a distribution method and we must compete with these organizations to recruit, maintain and grow our multi-level marketing force. In order to do so, we may be required to increase our marketing costs through increases in commissions, sales incentives or other features, all of which could adversely affect our future earnings. In addition, the level of confidence of the sales associates in our ability to perform is an important factor in maintaining and growing a multi-level marketing force. Adverse financial developments concerning us, including negative publicity or common stock price declines, could adversely affect our ability to maintain the confidence of our sales force. Our stock price may be affected by the significant level of short sellers of our stock. As of January 12, 2007, the New York Stock Exchange reported that approximately 4.5 million shares of our stock were sold short, which constitutes approximately 33% of our outstanding shares and 48% of our public float, representing one of the largest short interest percentages of any New York Stock Exchange listed company. Short sellers expect to make a profit if our shares decline in value. We have been the subject of a negative publicity campaign from several known sources of information who support short sellers. The existence of this short interest position may contribute to volatility in our stock price and may adversely affect the ability of our stock price to rise if market conditions or our performance would otherwise justify a price increase. We have not been able to significantly increase our employee group Membership sales. Our success in growing Membership sales is dependent in part on our ability to market to employee groups. At December 31, 2006, group memberships represented 24% of total Memberships compared to 20% at December 31, 2005 and 25% at December 31, 2004. Adverse publicity about us may affect our ability to market successfully to employee groups, particularly larger groups. There is no assurance that we will be able to increase our group business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. - ---------------------------------------- None. 