ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our financial position, results of operations and cash flows are subject to various risks, many of which are not exclusively within our control that may cause actual performance to differ materially from historical or projected future performance. Information contained within this Form 10-K should be carefully considered by investors in light of the risk factors described below. In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that could affect our financial condition or results of operations: 20 We have entered into a definitive merger agreement with MidOcean Partners. We announced that we entered into a definitive merger agreement on January 30, 2011, with MidOcean PPL Holdings Corp. (“Parent”) and PPL Acquisition Corp., both newly created entities formed by MidOcean Partners, a New York based private equity firm (“MidOcean”). The merger agreement provides that Parent will acquire all of our outstanding shares for a cash payment of $66.50 per share, or approximately $650 million in the aggregate. The closing of the transaction is subject to certain terms and conditions customary for transactions of this type, including receipt of shareholder and regulatory approvals. We currently anticipate consummating the transaction on or before July 31, 2011. Upon completion of the transaction, we will become a privately held company and our common stock will no longer be traded on the NYSE. There can be no assurance that the merger will occur, or will occur on the timetable contemplated hereby. For example, the merger may not occur, or may not occur on the timetable currently contemplated, as a result of a variety of factors, including the failure to obtain shareholder or regulatory approval, Parent’s failure to obtain sufficient financing to complete the merger, litigation relating to the merger or the failure of one or more of the closing conditions set forth in the merger agreement. If the merger agreement is not adopted by our shareholders, or if the merger is not completed for any other reason, our shareholders will not receive any payment for their shares pursuant to the merger agreement. Instead, upon the termination of the merger agreement, the Company will remain as a public company and our common stock will continue to be registered under the Exchange Act and listed and traded on the NYSE, although the price of our co mmon stock may change to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the merger will be consummated. Under specified circumstances, we may be required to pay MidOcean a termination fee or certain of MidOcean’s expenses or MidOcean may be required to pay us a termination fee, as described in the merger agreement. In addition, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the merger, and many of these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether or not the merger is consummated. The announcement and pendency of the merger could cause disruptions in our business. For example, uncertainty concerning potential changes to us and our business could adversely affect our relationships with our associates, members and provider law firms. In addition, key personnel may depart for a variety of reasons, including perceived uncertainty as to the effect of the merger on their employment. The pendency of the merger could also divert the time and attention of our management from our ongoing business operations. These disruptions may increase over time until the closing of the merger. Also, pending the closing of the merger, the merger agreement restricts us from engaging in certain actions without Parent’s consent, which could prevent us from pursuing opportunities that may arise prior to the closing of the merger. Our future results may be adversely affected if Membership persistency or renewal rates are lower than our historical experience. We have over 25 years of actual historical experience to measure the expected retention of new members. These retention rates could be adversely affected by the quality of services delivered by provider law firms, the existence of competitive products or services, our ability to provide administrative services to members or other factors. If our Membership persistency or renewal rates are less than we have historically experienced, our cash flow, earnings and growth rates could be adversely affected. We may not be able to grow Memberships and revenues at the same rate as we have historically experienced. Our year end active Memberships decreased 4.8% from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, decreased 0.7% during 2009 and decreased 1.1% during 2008. Changes in net income for the same three years were 22%, (8%) and 18%, respectively. In years prior to 2004, we were able to grow Memberships more significantly. Our ability to grow Memberships and revenues is substantially dependent upon our ability to expand or enhance the productivity of our sales force, develop additional legal expense products, develop alternative marketing methods or expand geographically. There is no assurance that we will be able to achieve increases in Membership and revenue growth comparable to our historical growth rates. We are dependent upon the continued active participation of our principal executive officer. Until the merger closes, if it closes, our success depends substantially on the continued active participation of our founder and chairman, Harland C. Stonecipher. Although our management includes other individuals with significant experience in our business, the loss of the services of Mr. Stonecipher could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There is litigation pending that may have a material adverse effect on us if adversely determined. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Any of the legal proceedings described in Item 3 could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 We may have compromises of our information security. We collect and store certain personal information that our members and sales associates provide to purchase products or services, enroll in certain programs, register on our web site, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We also gather and retain information about our employees, members and sales associates in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information such as member and sales associate credit card numbers. We cannot provide assurance that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromis e or breach of the algorithms or systems that we use to protect customer transaction data. Despite these instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. A breach of our security system resulting in member, sales associate or employee personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation, disrupt our operations and expose us to claims from employees, members, sales associates, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not comply with requirements placed on us by payment card associations or other financial processors. In addition, our online operations at www.prepaidlegal.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. During a downturn in the economy, consumer purchases of discretionary items may be affected, which could materially harm our sales, retention rates, profitability and financial condition. Although we believe our products and services can greatly assist our members during these challenging economic times, consumer spending is generally affected by a number of factors, including general economic conditions, inflation, interest rates, energy costs, gasoline prices and consumer confidence generally, all of which are beyond our control. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and such decline may impact sales and retention of our products should potential members have less money for discretionary purchases as a result of job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit and sharply falling home prices, among other things. We are in a regulated industry and regulations could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are regulated by or required to file with or obtain approval of State Insurance Departments, State Bar Associations and State Attorney General’s Offices, depending on individual state positions regarding regulatory responsibility for legal service plans. Regulation of our activities is inconsistent among the various states in which we do business with some states regulating legal service plans as insurance or specialized legal service products and others regulating such plans as services. Such disparate regulation requires us to structure our Memberships and operations differently in certain states in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Our multi-level marketing strategy is also subject to U.S. federal, Canadian provincial and U.S. state regulation under laws relating to consumer protection, pyramid sales, business opportun ity, lotteries and multi-level marketing. Although we believe in their current proposed state they would not apply to our business, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has proposed business opportunity regulations which could, if applied broadly, have an effect upon our method of operating in the United States, but such regulations are in the early stages of development and it is not possible to gauge the potential impact or the effective date at this time. Changes in the regulatory environment for our business could increase the compliance costs we incur in order to conduct our business or limit the jurisdictions in which we are able to conduct business. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings for further information pertaining to current inquiries by the SEC. 22 The business in which we operate is competitive. There are a number of existing and potential competitors that have the ability to offer competing products that could adversely affect our ability to grow. In addition, we may face competition from a growing number of Internet based legal sites with the potential to offer legal and related services at competitive prices. Increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Description of Business – Competition.” We are dependent upon the success of our marketing force. Our principal method of product distribution is through multi-level marketing. The success of a multi-level marketing force is highly dependent upon our ability to offer a commission and organizational structure and sales training and incentive program that enable sales associates to recruit and develop other sales associates to create an organization. There are a number of other products and services that use multi-level marketing as a distribution method and we must compete with these organizations to recruit, maintain and grow our multi-level marketing force. In order to do so, we may be required to increase our marketing costs through increases in commissions, sales incentives or other features, all of which could adversely affect our future earnings. In addition, the level of confidence of the sales associates in our ability to perform is an im portant factor in maintaining and growing a multi-level marketing force. Adverse financial developments concerning us, including negative publicity or common stock price declines, could adversely affect our ability to maintain the confidence of our sales force. Our stock price may be affected by short sellers of our stock. As of January 14, 2011, the New York Stock Exchange reported that approximately 1.4 million shares of our stock were sold short, which constitutes approximately 15% of our outstanding shares and 29% of shares held by non-affiliates. During 2010, the number of shares sold short typically represented one of the largest short interest positions of any New York Stock Exchange listed company in terms of the number of average trading days it would take to cover the short positions. Short sellers expect to make a profit if our shares decline in value. We have been the subject of a negative publicity campaign from several known sources of information who support short sellers. The existence of this short interest position may contribute to volatility in our stock price. We have not been able to significantly increase our employee group Membership sales. Our success in growing Membership sales is dependent in part on our ability to market to employee groups. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, group memberships represented 27% of total Memberships compared to 26% at December 31, 2008. Adverse publicity about us may affect our ability to market successfully to employee groups, particularly larger groups. There is no assurance that we will be able to increase our group business. We have repurchased more than half our outstanding shares over the past ten years. We announced on April 6, 1999, a treasury stock purchase program authorizing management to acquire up to 500,000 shares of our common stock. The Board of Directors has increased such authorization from 500,000 shares to 16 million shares through subsequent board actions. At December 31, 2010, we had purchased 15.4 million treasury shares under these authorizations in both open market and non-open market transactions for a total consideration of $472.0 million, an average price of $30.67 per share. The repurchase program of $472.0 million combined with $17.1 million in dividends has resulted in our returning $489.1 million to shareholders since April 1999 and represents more than 100% of our net earnings during the same timeframe. We have reduced the number of shares outstanding by approximately 58% from 23.6 million at March 31, 1999 to 9.8 million outstanding at year-end. Our stock price, earnings per share and cash flow would have been different had we invested these funds differently. Additionally, due to these repurchases, the lower number of shares outstanding could favorably affect our stock price assuming our net income remained unchanged resulting in higher earnings per share. Conversely, these repurchases may have contributed to lower average trading volume potentially leading to reduced interest in our stock by large institution investors that typically make larger investments. Any future treasury stock purchases could have a similar impact on our stock price, earnings per share and cash flow. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we are prohibited from repurchasing any shares without Parent’s consent. 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 