Item 1A. Risk Factors — “Our industry is very competitive. Additionally changes in technology could render our products obsolete” for more information. The companies that compete with our ophthalmic segment include Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Novartis International AG and Bausch & Lomb, Inc., among others. The ophthalmic segment competes primarily on the basis of price and service. The companies that compete with our hospital drugs & injectables segment include both generic and name brand companies such as Hospira, Inc., Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Fresenius Kabi, American Regent, Inc. and Baxter International, Inc. The hospital drugs & injectables segment competes primarily on the basis of price. Competitors in our biologics and vaccine market include Sanofi Aventis and GlaxoSmithKline plc. The vaccine segment competes primarily on the basis of price and service. Competitors in our contract services segment include Baxter International, Inc., Hospira, Inc., Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. and Patheon, Inc. The contract services segment competes primarily on the basis of price and technical capabilities. Suppliers and Customers. In 2008 and 2007 purchases from MBL represented 62% and 64% of our purchases, respectively, while in 2006 purchases from Hameln represented approximately 13% of our purchases. In 2008 and 2007, MBL was our sole supplier of Td vaccine for our vaccine segment and in 2006 Hameln was our sole supplier of DTPA for our hospital drugs & injectables segment. We require a supply of quality raw materials and components to manufacture and package pharmaceutical products for ourselves and for third parties with which we have contracted. The principal components of our products are active and inactive pharmaceutical ingredients and certain packaging materials. Many of these components are available from only a single source and, in the case of many of our ANDAs and NDAs, only one supplier of raw materials has been identified. Because FDA approval of drugs requires manufacturers to specify their proposed suppliers of active ingredients and certain packaging materials in their applications, FDA approval of any new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the 7 Table of Contents specified supplier. The qualification of a new supplier could delay our development and marketing efforts. If for any reason we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials or components required to produce and package our products, we may not be able to manufacture our products as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2008 and 2007, our major sales were through the three large wholesale drug distributors noted below. These three large wholesale drug distributors account for a large portion of our gross sales, revenues and accounts receivable in all our business segments except for contract services. Those distributors are: • AmerisourceBergen Corporation (“AmerisourceBergen”) • Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”); and • McKesson Drug Company (“McKesson”). These three wholesale drug distributors accounted for approximately 49% of our total gross sales and 45% of our revenues in 2008, and 54% of our gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008. The difference between gross sales and revenue is that gross sales do not reflect the deductions for chargebacks, rebates and product returns (See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Critical Accounting Policies” for more information). The percentages of gross sales, revenue and gross trade receivables attributed to each of these three wholesale drug distributors as of and for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were as follows: 2008 2007 Gross Net Gross Accounts Gross Net Gross Accounts Sales Revenue Receivable Sales Revenue Receivable AmerisourceBergen 16 % 12 % 7 % 22 % 17 % 36 % Cardinal 23 % 19 % 41 % 25 % 21 % 25 % McKesson 10 % 14 % 6 % 20 % 15 % 8 % AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal and McKesson are distributors of our products as well as a broad range of health care products for many other companies. None of these distributors is an end user of our products. If sales to any one of these distributors were to diminish or cease, we believe that the end users of our products would find little difficulty obtaining our products either directly from us or from another distributor. However, the loss of one or more of these distributors, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternative distribution source for end users, could have a material negative impact on our revenue, business, financial condition and results of operations. We consider our business relationships with these three wholesalers to be in good standing and have fee for services contracts with each of these wholesalers. A change in purchasing patterns, a decrease in inventory levels, an increase in returns of our products, delays in purchasing products and delays in payment for products by one or more distributors also could have a material negative impact on our revenue, business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1A Risk factors — “We depend on a small number of distributors, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect” for more information. Backorders. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $925,000 of products on backorder as compared to approximately $802,000 of backorders as of December 31, 2007. We anticipate filling all current open backorders during 2009. Government Regulation. Pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by government agencies, including the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and other federal, state and local agencies. The federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”), the Controlled Substance Act and other federal statutes and regulations govern or influence the development, testing, manufacture, labeling, storage and promotion of products that we manufacture and market. The FDA inspects drug manufacturers and storage facilities to determine compliance with its current Good Manufacturing Practices (“cGMP”) regulations, non-compliance with which can result in fines, recall and seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to approve NDAs and ANDAs and criminal prosecution. The FDA also has the authority to revoke approval of drug products. FDA approval is required before any drug can be manufactured and marketed. New drugs require the filing of an NDA, including clinical studies demonstrating the safety and efficacy of the drug. Generic drugs, which are equivalents of existing, off-patent brand name drugs, require the filing of an ANDA. An ANDA does not, for the most part, require clinical studies since safety and efficacy have already been demonstrated by the product originator. However, the ANDA must provide data demonstrating the equivalency of 8 Table of Contents the generic formulation in terms of bioavailability. The time required by the FDA to review and approve NDAs and ANDAs is variable and, to a large extent, beyond our control. FDA Warning Letter. On March 29, 2007, we received an FDA Warning Letter (the “Warning Letter”) following a routine inspection of our Decatur, Illinois manufacturing facility conducted from September 12 through September 29, 2006. The Warning Letter alleged violations of the current cGMP regulations. We responded to the Warning Letter on April 19, 2007 providing clarifying information and describing corrective actions planned and/or completed. The Warning Letter had no impact on FDA approved products manufactured or distributed by our Decatur facility. The FDA conducted another inspection of the Decatur facility from July 23, 2007 to August 17, 2007. The FDA investigators identified a number of observations representing potential violations of the cGMP regulations. We submitted comprehensive responses to these observations on September 28, 2007. Subsequently, we were notified by the FDA on December 20, 2007, that all cGMP issues had been satisfactorily resolved resulting in removal of the Warning Letter’s potential restrictions on new product approvals; approval of the lyophilization and filling operations of the Decatur facility; and approval of the site transfer for manufacture of IC Green to the Decatur facility. Since then, we have received FDA approval of several ANDAs and NDAs for manufacture of product at the Decatur facility. Product Recalls. We were prompted to initiate one product recall of our Cyanide Antidote Kit during 2008, due to the third quarter recall notification by Becton, Dickinson and Company (“BD”), of their 60ml syringe. This syringe is included as part of a packaged kit along with drug components manufactured and sourced by us, to support the Cyanide Antidote Kit. Our recall of the Cyanide Antidote Kit was necessitated by the BD recall, and has resulted in no patient impact and no shortage of product supply to the marketplace. We recorded a $440,000 additional provision to sales returns in 2008 to recognize the impact of this recall. Our supporting efforts were reviewed by the FDA, as part of our due diligence in apprising the Agency of our reaction to the BD recall. There were no product recalls during 2007 or 2006. DEA Regulation. We also manufacture and distribute several controlled-drug substances, the distribution and handling of which are regulated by the DEA. Failure to comply with DEA regulations can result in fines or seizure of product. Environment. We do not anticipate any material adverse effect from compliance with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Foreign Sales. During 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately $1,384,000, $1,320,000 and $1,104,000, respectively, of our revenues were from customers located in foreign countries. Seasonality. Most of our business segments do not experience significant seasonality other than Td vaccines in the spring through fall seasons and flu vaccine products which are typically sold in the August through November period. Government Contracts. None of our business segments are generally subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election of the Federal government. Available Information. We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Materials filed with the SEC can be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our filings are available to the public at the website maintained by the SEC, http://www.sec.gov. We also make available, free of charge, through our web site at www.akorn.com, our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have experienced recent operating losses, working capital deficiencies and negative cash flows from operations, and these losses and deficiencies may continue in the future. 9 Table of Contents Our recent operating losses may continue in the future and there can be no assurance that our financial outlook will improve. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our operating losses were $7,183,000, $19,815,000 and $4,905,000, respectively. We generated a positive cash flow from operations in 2006 of $2,509,000, however, we generated negative cash flows of $5,420,000 and $24,891,000 in 2008 and 2007, respectively. If our results of operations do not improve we would have to implement a restructuring plan in order to preserve our cash flow and continue business operations. There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of our lack of liquidity, limited capital resources, continued losses and accumulated debt, we have concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and our independent registered public accounting firm has included in their report on our December 31, 2008 consolidated financial statements which is included in this annual report on Form 10-K, an explanatory paragraph describing the events that have given rise to this uncertainty. These factors may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional funding to meet our obligations. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to generate or obtain sufficient cash to meet our obligations on a timely basis. Our losses since 2001 have totaled $85,128,000. Based on our operating plan, our existing working capital is not sufficient to meet the cash requirements to fund our planned operating expenses, capital expenditures, and working capital requirements through December 31, 2009 without additional sources of cash and/or the deferral, reduction or elimination of significant planned expenditures. Currently, we have no commitments to obtain additional capital, and there can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. See also “Risks relating to our Credit Agreement” and “Inadequate liquidity could materially adversely affect our business operations in the future”. Risks relating to our Credit Agreement Our lender has restricted our ability to draw on our Credit Agreement. We are party to a Credit Agreement (“GE Credit Agreement”) with General Electric Capital Corporation (“GE Capital”), as agent for the several financial institutions from time to time party to the Credit Agreement and for itself as a lender, and GE Capital Markets, Inc. Pursuant to the GE Credit Agreement, among other things, the lenders agreed to extend loans to us under a revolving credit facility (including a letter of credit subfacility) up to an aggregate principal amount of $25,000,000 or whatever lower figure is supported by the collateral borrowing base rules set forth in the GE Credit Agreement. On February 19, 2009, we received a letter from GE Capital informing us that GE Capital was applying a reserve against availability which effectively restricts our borrowings under the GE Credit Agreement to the balance outstanding as of February 19, 2009, which was $5,523,620. GE Capital advised us that it was applying this reserve due to concerns about our financial performance, including our prospective compliance with the EBITDA covenant in the GE Credit Agreement for the quarter that will end March 31, 2009. The restrictions on our ability to borrow under the GE Credit Agreement could have important adverse consequences on our future operations, including: making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations; reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have fewer restrictions on borrowing or greater access to capital. If we are unable to convince GE Capital to remove the restriction on our ability to borrow under the GE Credit Agreement or obtain otherwise suitable financing, we may not be able to meet our payment and other obligations which could significantly and materially harm our business and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in convincing GE Capital to remove the restriction on our ability to borrow or that we will be able to obtain otherwise suitable financing. Our ability to continue as a going concern depends on our compliance with the terms of our Credit Agreement, and on the availability of additional financing. Our GE Credit Agreement contains a number of agreements and covenants that we may not be able to comply with. Should a default be declared, we would have to repay any money borrowed thereunder and this would threaten our ability to continue as a going concern. Alternative financing could replace our relationship with GE Capital, but if we are forced to seek that financing we do not believe it would be on favorable terms and there can be no assurance as to the amount of any financing that might be available. We have received an extension from our lender pertaining to a loan covenant, but may not receive a further extension or waiver of the covenant, which would entitle our lender to exercise default remedies. Our GE Credit Agreement requires us to enter into control agreements with respect to each of our deposit, securities, commodity or similar accounts as our lenders shall reasonably request. Failure to obtain such control agreements constitutes a default under the GE Credit Agreement. GE Capital has extended the deadline 10 Table of Contents for entering into a control agreement for one of our accounts until March 30, 2009. However, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining such a control agreement or that GE Capital will grant us a further extension of the deadline by March 30, 2009. In the event of a default resulting from the failure to obtain such a control agreement or extension, GE Capital will have the option of exercising all of its rights and remedies under the GE Credit Agreement arising as a result of the alleged events of default, including the right (i) to accelerate our loan obligations, (ii) to increase the interest rate to the default rate under the GE Credit Agreement, and (iii) to repossess and take other action with respect to any or all collateral under the GE Credit Agreement. Inadequate liquidity could materially adversely affect our business operations. We require substantial liquidity to implement long-term cost savings and restructuring plans, continue capital spending to support product programs and development of advanced technologies, meet scheduled term debt and lease maturities, and run our normal business operations. If we continue to operate at or below the minimum cash levels necessary to support our normal business operations, we may be forced to further curtail capital spending, research and development and other programs that are important to the future success of our business. As discussed above, GE Capital has responded to the weakening of our liquidity position by placing a restriction on our ability to borrow under the GE Credit Agreement. It is likely that if we were to lose our ability to access amounts under the GE Credit Agreement, that we would be unable to find additional capital or alternative financing necessary to sustain our current business operations. If we fail to obtain sufficient funding for any reason, we would not be able to continue as a going concern. Our lack of liquidity has caused us to be unable to make payments when due under our Exclusive Distribution Agreement with Massachusetts Biologic Laboratories. Due to our limited liquidity, we were unable to make a payment of approximately $3,375,000 for Td vaccine products which was due to our strategic partner, MBL, by February 27, 2009 under our MBL Distribution Agreement. While we made a partial payment of $1,000,000 to MBL on March 13, 2009, we were also unable to make another payment of approximately $3,375,000 due to MBL on March 28, 2009. Accordingly, we have entered into a letter agreement with MBL on March 27, 2009 (“MBL Letter Agreement”), pursuant to which we agreed to pay MBL the $5,750,000 remaining due for these Td vaccine products plus an additional $4,750,000 in consideration of the amendments to the MBL Distribution Agreement payable according to a periodic payment schedule through June 30, 2010. In addition, pursuant to the MBL Letter Agreement, the MBL Distribution Agreement was converted to a non-exclusive agreement, we are obligated to provide MBL with a standby letter of credit by April 12, 2009 to secure our obligation to pay amounts due to MBL, and we will be released from our obligation to further purchase Td vaccine products from MBL upon providing MBL with such letter of credit. In addition, pursuant to the MBL Letter Agreement, MBL agreed not to declare a breach or otherwise act to terminate the MBL Distribution Agreement provided that we comply with the terms of the MBL Letter Agreement, the MBL Distribution Agreement (as amended by the MBL Letter Agreement) and any agreements required to be entered into pursuant to the MBL Letter Agreement. We anticipate that Dr. John Kapoor, the Chairman of our board of directors and one of our principal shareholders, will provide the standby letter of credit to MBL pursuant to the MBL Letter Agreement. If for any reason we are unable to provide the standby letter of credit to MBL by April 12, 2009 or if we are unable to make any payment under the MBL Letter Agreement when due and MBL is unable to draw on the standby letter of credit, we would be in breach of the MBL Letter Agreement which could significantly and materially harm our business and cause us to not be able to continue as a going concern. We expect that Dr. Kapoor will be compensated in an amount to be determined for providing the standby letter of credit. We must obtain additional capital to continue our operations. We will require additional funds to operate and grow our business. We may seek additional funds through public and private financing, including equity and debt offerings. However, adequate funds through the financial markets or from other sources may not be available when needed or on terms favorable to us. Without sufficient additional funding, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our product development, manufacturing, acquisition, licensing and marketing initiatives, or operations. Further, such additional financing, if obtained, likely will require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the common stock and result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of the common stockholders, and could include covenants and restrictions that limit our ability to operate or expand our business in a manner that we deem to be in our best interest. Unstable market and economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by the recent economic downturn and volatile business environment and continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate further, or do not improve, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, and more dilutive. A prolonged or profound economic 11 Table of Contents downturn may result in adverse changes to product reimbursement, pricing or sales levels, which would harm our operating results. There is a risk that one or more of our current service providers, manufacturers and other partners may not survive these difficult economic times, which would directly affect our ability to attain our operating goals on schedule and on budget. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to delay or abandon development plans. There is also a possibility that our stock price may decline, due in part to the volatility of the stock market and the general economic downturn. We have invested significant resources in the development of lyophilization manufacturing capability, and we may not realize the benefit of these efforts and expenditures. We have completed the final stages of an expansion of our Decatur, Illinois manufacturing facility to add capacity to provide lyophilization manufacturing services, a manufacturing capability we previously did not have. As of December 31, 2008, we had spent $22,680,000 on the lyophilization facility expansion. In December 2006, we placed the sterile solutions portion of this operation in service which augments our existing production capacities. The remaining $5,443,000, which is specific to lyophilization (freeze-dry) operations was validated and placed in service in December 2008. We are producing our lyophilized IC Green product on this equipment and are working to internally develop an ANDA lyophilized products pipeline. However, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in attaining additional lyophilization customers or products, or that other intervening events will not occur that reduce or eliminate the additional benefits from such capability. For instance, the market for lyophilized products could significantly diminish or be eliminated, or new technological advances could render the lyophilization process obsolete. There can be no assurance that we will realize all the anticipated benefits from our significant investment into lyophilization capability at our Decatur manufacturing facility, and our failure to do so could significantly limit our ability to grow our business in the future. We depend on a small number of distributors, the loss of any of which could have a material adverse effect. A small number of large wholesale drug distributors account for a large portion of our gross sales, revenues and accounts receivable. The following three wholesalers, AmerisourceBergen, Cardinal and McKesson, accounted for approximately 49% of total gross sales and 45% of total revenues in 2008, and 54% of gross trade receivables as of December 31, 2008. In addition to acting as distributors of our products, these three companies also distribute a broad range of health care products for many other companies. The loss of one or more of these wholesalers, together with a delay or inability to secure an alternative distribution source for end users, could have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations and lead to a violation of debt covenants. A change in purchasing patterns, inventory levels, increases in returns of our products, delays in purchasing products and delays in payment for products by one or more distributors also could have a material negative impact on our revenue and results of operations. Our growth depends on our ability to timely develop additional pharmaceutical products and manufacturing capabilities. Our strategy for growth is dependent upon our ability to develop products that can be promoted through current marketing and distributions channels and, when appropriate, the enhancement of such marketing and distribution channels. We may not meet our anticipated time schedule for the filing of ANDAs and NDAs or may decide not to pursue ANDAs or NDAs that we have submitted or anticipate submitting. Our internal development of new pharmaceutical products is dependent upon the research and development capabilities of our personnel and our strategic business alliance infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we or our strategic business alliances will successfully develop new pharmaceutical products or, if developed, successfully integrate new products into our existing product lines. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will receive all necessary FDA approvals or that such approvals will not involve delays, which adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. Our failure to develop new products, to maintain substantial compliance with FDA compliance guidelines or to receive FDA approval of ANDAs or NDAs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We have entered into several strategic business alliances which may not result in marketable products. We have entered several strategic business alliances that have been formed to supply us with low cost finished dosage form products. Since 2004, we have entered into various purchase and supply agreements, license agreements, and a joint venture that are all designed to provide finished dosage form products that can be marketed through our distribution pipeline. The Joint Venture Company has generated several product introductions, however, there can be no assurance that these agreements will result in additional FDA-approved ANDAs or NDAs, or that we will be able to market any such additional products at a profit. In addition, any clinical trial expenses that we incur may result in adverse financial consequences to our business. Our growth and profitability is dependent on our ability to successfully market and distribute new products, including vaccine products, through various distribution channels. We continue to seek out and introduce new pharmaceutical/healthcare products. Our improved financial performance is dependent on new product introductions, such as the biologics and vaccine products discussed above. Any delays or an inability to successfully market and distribute such products may result in adverse financial consequences to our business. In particular, continued growth for our Td vaccine product is dependent on successful management of market penetration on hospital group purchasing organization contracts. We have accumulated substantial Td vaccine inventory which may be difficult to sell. We have accumulated substantial Td vaccine inventory quantities which will require time to sell and may require discounting to generate cash flow to fund operations for the company. In addition, we have lost our exclusive distribution rights for this Td vaccine product as per the MBL Letter Agreement dated March 27, 2009. While we anticipate selling at prices in excess of our carrying value, extensive discounting to generate cash for our operations and/or discounting to respond to competitor pricing could be required and, if so, this would adversely impact our profit margins which could impact our ability to continue as a going concern. 13 Table of Contents Our success depends on the development of generic and off-patent pharmaceutical products which are particularly susceptible to competition, substitution policies and reimbursement policies. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate which branded pharmaceuticals are about to come off patent and thus permit us to develop, manufacture and market equivalent generic pharmaceutical products. Generic pharmaceuticals must meet the same quality standards as branded pharmaceuticals, even though these equivalent pharmaceuticals are sold at prices that are significantly lower than that of branded pharmaceuticals. Generic substitution is regulated by the federal and state governments, as is reimbursement for generic drug dispensing. There can be no assurance that substitution will be permitted for newly approved generic drugs or that such products will be subject to government reimbursement. In addition, generic products that third parties develop may render our generic products noncompetitive or obsolete. There can be no assurance that we will be able to consistently bring generic pharmaceutical products to market quickly and efficiently in the future. An increase in competition in the sale of generic pharmaceutical products or our failure to bring such products to market before our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, there is no proprietary protection for most of the branded pharmaceutical products that either we or other pharmaceutical companies sell. In addition, governmental and cost-containment pressures regarding the dispensing of generic equivalents will likely result in generic substitution and competition generally for our branded pharmaceutical products. We attempt to mitigate the effect of this substitution through, among other things, creation of strong brand-name recognition and product-line extensions for our branded pharmaceutical products, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. We can be subject to legal proceedings against us, which may prove costly and time-consuming even if meritless. In the ordinary course of our business, we can be involved in legal actions with both private parties and certain government agencies. To the extent that our personnel may have to spend time and resources to pursue or contest any matters that may be asserted from time to time in the future, this represents time and money that is not available for other actions that we might otherwise pursue which could be beneficial to our future. In addition, to the extent that we are unsuccessful in any legal proceedings, the consequences could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Our revenues depend on sale of products manufactured by third parties, which we cannot control. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of products manufactured by third parties, including our competitors in some instances. There can be no assurance that our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of such products will not adversely affect our profit margins or our ability to develop and deliver our products on a timely and competitive basis. If for any reason we are unable to obtain or retain third-party manufacturers on commercially acceptable terms, we may not be able to distribute certain of our products as planned. No assurance can be made that the manufacturers we use will be able to provide us with sufficient quantities of our products or that the products supplied to us will meet our specifications. Any delays or difficulties with third-party manufacturers could adversely affect the marketing and distribution of certain of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our directors are subject to conflicts of interest. Dr. John N. Kapoor, Ph.D., the chairman of our board of directors, a member of the committee of the board overseeing our operations until a new President and Chief Executive Officer have been appointed, our chief executive officer from March 2001 to December 2002, and a principal shareholder, is affiliated with EJ Financial Enterprises, Inc. (“EJ Financial”), a health care consulting investment company. EJ Financial is involved in the management of health care companies in various fields, and Dr. Kapoor is involved in various capacities with the management and operation of these companies. The John N. Kapoor Trust dated 9/20/89 (the “Kapoor Trust”), the beneficiary and sole trustee of which is Dr. Kapoor, is a principal shareholder of each of these companies. As a result, Dr. Kapoor does not devote his full time to our business. Although such companies do not currently compete directly with us, certain companies with which EJ Financial is involved are in the pharmaceutical business. Discoveries made by one or more of these companies could render our products less competitive or obsolete. The Kapoor Trust is also one of our lenders through a Subordinated Note. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — “Subordinated Debt”. Potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Dr. Subhash Kapre is a member of our board of directors and is the Executive Director of Serum. We are a party to several product development agreements with Serum and additional future agreements or changes to existing agreements have the potential to create a conflict of interest for Dr. Kapre. Dependence on key executive officers. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key executive officers. We are particularly dependent upon Dr. John N. Kapoor, Ph.D., chairman of our board of directors. The inability to attract and retain key executive officers, or the loss of one 14 Table of Contents or more of our key executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Through stock ownership, his position on our board of directors, and his loans to us, Dr. John Kapoor has substantial influence over our business strategies and policies. Dr. John Kapoor owns, directly and indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding voting common stock. Dr. Kapoor is also Chairman of our board of directors and also is a member of the special committee that is overseeing our operations until a new President and Chief Executive Officer is appointed. Further, Dr. Kapoor is a substantial creditor of ours. Because of this, Dr. Kapoor can strongly influence, and potentially control, the outcome of our corporate actions, including the election of our directors and transactions involving a change of control. Decisions made by Dr. Kapoor with respect to his, and his related parties, ownership or trading of our common stock, or with regards to our outstanding debt, could have an adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and an adverse effect on our business. Recent changes in our senior management may cause uncertainty in, or be disruptive to, our business. We have recently experienced significant changes in our senior management and our board of directors. On January 29, 2009 Arthur Przybyl vacated the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer. On this same date, the board of directors formed a committee to oversee our operations until a new President and Chief Executive Officer is appointed and begins service in those positions. The committee is comprised of Dr. John Kapoor, Chairman of the board of directors, and Randall Wall and Jerry Ellis, both members of the board of directors. Mr. Przybyl resigned from his position as a director on our board of directors on February 25, 2009. The vacancy created by Mr. Przybyl’s resignation as a director has not yet been filled. These changes in our senior management and our board of directors may be disruptive to our business, and, during the transition period, there may be uncertainty among investors, vendors, rating agencies, employees and others concerning our future direction and performance. We must continue to attract and retain key personnel to be able to compete successfully. Our performance depends, to a large extent, on the continued service of our key research and development personnel, other technical employees, managers and sales personnel and our ability to continue to attract and retain such personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly for highly motivated and experienced research and development and other technical personnel. We are facing increasing competition from companies with greater financial resources for such personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled personnel in the future, and the inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulations that increase our costs and could subject us to fines, prevent us from selling our products or prevent us from operating our facilities. Federal and state government agencies regulate virtually all aspects of our business. The development, testing, manufacturing, processing, quality, safety, efficacy, packaging, labeling, record keeping, distribution, storage and advertising of our products, and disposal of waste products arising from such activities, are subject to regulation by the FDA, DEA, FTC, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency. Similar state and local agencies also have jurisdiction over these activities. Noncompliance with applicable United States and/or state or local regulatory requirements can result in fines, injunctions, penalties, mandatory recalls or seizures, suspensions of production, recommendations by the FDA against governmental contracts and criminal prosecution. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. New, modified and additional regulations, statutes or legal interpretation, if any, could, among other things, require changes to manufacturing methods, expanded or different labeling, the recall, replacement or discontinuation of certain products, additional record keeping and expanded documentation of the properties of certain products and scientific substantiation. Such changes or new legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1. Business — “Government Regulation.” FDA regulations. All pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us, are subject to regulation by the FDA under the authority of the FDC Act. Under the FDC Act, the federal government has extensive administrative and judicial enforcement authority over the activities of finished drug product manufacturers to ensure compliance with FDA regulations. This authority includes, but is not limited to, the authority to initiate court action to seize unapproved or non-complying products, to enjoin non-complying activities, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMP, to recall products, to seek civil and monetary penalties and to criminally prosecute violators. Other enforcement activities include refusal to approve product applications or the withdrawal of 15 Table of Contents previously approved applications. Any such enforcement activities, including the restriction or prohibition on sales of products we market or the halting of our manufacturing operations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, product recalls may be issued at our discretion, or at the request of the FDA or other government agencies having regulatory authority for pharmaceutical products. Recalls may occur due to disputed labeling claims, manufacturing issues, quality defects or other reasons. No assurance can be given that restriction or prohibition on sales, halting of manufacturing operations or recalls of our pharmaceutical products will not occur in the future. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, such actions, in certain circumstances, could constitute an event of default under the terms of our various financing relationships. We must obtain approval from the FDA for each pharmaceutical product that we market which requires a regulatory submission. The FDA approval process is typically lengthy and expensive, and approval is never certain. Our new products could take a significantly longer time than we expect to gain regulatory approval and may never gain approval. Even if the FDA or another regulatory agency approves a product, the approval may limit the indicated uses for a product, may otherwise limit our ability to promote, sell and distribute a product or may require post-marketing studies or impose other post-marketing obligations. We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA to assure regulatory compliance regarding the manufacturing, distribution, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. The FDA imposes stringent mandatory requirements on the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products to ensure their safety and efficacy. The FDA also regulates drug labeling and the advertising of prescription drugs. A finding by a governmental agency or court that we are not in compliance with FDA requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We were previously subject to an FDA Warning Letter which the FDA issued to us in October 2000 which was subsequently removed in 2005. In March 2007, we were again subject to a warning letter at our Decatur facility which was removed in December 2007. See Item 1. Business — “FDA Warning Letter”. If the FDA changes its regulatory position, it could force us to delay or suspend our manufacturing, distribution or sales of certain products. We believe that all of our current products are in substantial compliance with FDA regulations and have received the requisite agency approvals for their manufacture and sale. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals which may or may not be granted and which may be subject to a lengthy application process. Any change in the FDA’s enforcement policy or any decision by the FDA to require an approved NDA or ANDA for one of our products not currently subject to the approved NDA or ANDA requirements or any delay in the FDA approving an NDA or ANDA for one of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of products we market are non-application drugs that are manufactured and marketed without FDA-issued ANDAs or NDAs on the basis of their having been marketed prior to the 1962 Amendment of the FDC Act. The regulatory status of these products is subject to change and/or challenge by the FDA, which could establish new standards and limitations for manufacturing and marketing such products, or challenge the evidence of prior manufacturing and marketing upon which grandfathering status is based. Any such change in the status of such product could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive DEA regulation, which could result in our being fined or otherwise penalized. We also manufacture and sell drugs which are “controlled substances” as defined in the federal Controlled Substances Act and similar state laws, which impose, among other things, certain licensing, security and record keeping requirements administered by the DEA and similar state agencies, as well as quotas for the manufacture, purchase and sale of controlled substances. The DEA could limit or reduce the amount of controlled substances which we are permitted to manufacture and market. See Item 1. Business — “DEA Regulation”. We may implement product recalls and could be exposed to significant product liability claims; we may have to pay significant amounts to those harmed and may suffer from adverse publicity as a result. The manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceuticals involves an inherent risk that our products may prove to be defective and cause a health risk. In that event, we may voluntarily implement a recall or market withdrawal or may be required to do so by a regulatory authority. We have recalled products in the past and, based on this experience, believe that the occurrence of a recall could result in significant costs to us, potential disruptions in the supply of our products to our customers and adverse publicity, all of which could harm our ability to market our products. We were prompted to initiate one product recall of our Cyanide Antidote Kit during 2008, due to the third quarter recall notification by BD, of their 60ml syringe. This syringe is included as part of a packaged kit along 16 Table of Contents with drug components manufactured and sourced by us, to support the Cyanide Antidote Kit. Our recall of the Cyanide Antidote Kit was necessitated by the BD recall, and has resulted in no patient impact and no shortage of product supply to the marketplace. Our supporting efforts were reviewed by the FDA, as part of our due diligence in apprising the Agency of our reaction to the BD recall. There were no product recalls in 2007 or 2006. Although we are not currently subject to any material product liability proceedings, we may incur material liabilities relating to product liability claims in the future. Even meritless claims could subject us to adverse publicity, hinder us from securing insurance coverage in the future and require us to incur significant legal fees and divert the attention of the key employees from running our business. Successful product liability claims brought against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have product liability insurance in the amount of $5,000,000 for aggregate annual claims with a $50,000 deductible per incident and a $250,000 aggregate annual deductible. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance coverage will be sufficient to fully cover potential claims. Additionally, there can be no assurance that adequate insurance coverage will be available in the future at acceptable costs, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FDA may authorize sales of some prescription pharmaceuticals on a non-prescription basis, which would reduce the profitability of our prescription products. From time to time, the FDA elects to permit sales of some pharmaceuticals currently sold on a prescription basis, without a prescription. FDA approval of the sale of our products without a prescription would reduce demand for our competing prescription products and, accordingly, reduce our profits. Our industry is very competitive. Additionally, changes in technology could render our products obsolete. We face significant competition from other pharmaceutical companies, including major pharmaceutical companies with financial resources substantially greater than ours, in developing, acquiring, manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products. The selling prices of pharmaceutical products typically decline as competition increases. Further, other products now in use, under development or acquired by other pharmaceutical companies, may be more effective or offered at lower prices than our current or future products. The industry is characterized by rapid technological change that may render our products obsolete, and competitors may develop their products more rapidly than we can. Competitors may also be able to complete the regulatory process sooner, and therefore, may begin to market their products in advance of our products. We believe that competition in sales of our products is based primarily on price, service and technical capabilities. There can be no assurance that: (i) we will be able to develop or acquire commercially attractive pharmaceutical products; (ii) additional competitors will not enter the market; or (iii) competition from other pharmaceutical companies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source. We require a supply of quality raw materials and components to manufacture and package pharmaceutical products for ourselves and for third parties with which we have contracted. Many of the raw materials and components used in our products come from a single source and interruptions in the supply of these raw materials and components could disrupt our manufacturing of specific products and cause our sales and profitability to decline. Further, in the case of many of our ANDAs and NDAs, only one supplier of raw materials has been identified. Because FDA approval of drugs requires manufacturers to specify their proposed suppliers of active ingredients and certain packaging materials in their applications, FDA approval of any new supplier would be required if active ingredients or such packaging materials were no longer available from the specified supplier. The qualification of a new supplier could delay our development and marketing efforts. If for any reason we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of any of the raw materials or components required to produce and package our products, we may not be able to manufacture our products as planned, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our patents and proprietary rights may not adequately protect our products and processes. The patent and proprietary rights position of competitors in the pharmaceutical industry generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions, and is the subject of much litigation. There can be no assurance that any patent applications or other proprietary rights, including licensed rights, relating to our potential products or processes will result in patents being issued or other proprietary rights secured, or that the resulting patents or proprietary rights, if any, will provide protection against competitors who: (i) successfully challenge our patents or proprietary rights; (ii) obtain patents or proprietary rights that may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business; or (iii) are able to circumvent our patent or proprietary rights position. It is possible that other parties have conducted or are conducting research and could make discoveries of pharmaceutical formulations or processes that would precede any discoveries made by us, which could prevent us from obtaining patent or other protection for these discoveries or marketing products developed there from. Consequently, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop pharmaceutical products similar to or obsoleting those that we are planning to develop, or duplicate any of our products. Our inability to obtain patents for, or other proprietary rights in, our products and processes or the ability of competitors to circumvent or obsolete our patents or proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concentrated ownership of our common stock and our registration of shares for public sale creates a risk of sudden changes in our share price. The sale by any of our large shareholders of a significant portion of that shareholder’s holdings could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We have registered 72,785,437 shares held by certain of our investors for sale under registration statements on Forms S-1 and S-3 filed with the SEC. Sales of these shares on the open market could cause the price of our stock to decline. Exercise of warrants and options may have a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise or conversion of any warrants or stock options is in excess of the various exercise or conversion prices of such convertible securities, exercise or conversion of such convertible securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. Holders of our outstanding warrants and options would receive 5,773,463 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $4.89 per share. Any additional financing that we secure likely will require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock which may result in substantial dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common shareholders. We may issue preferred stock and the terms of such preferred stock may reduce the value of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to a total of 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. Our board of directors may determine whether to issue additional shares of preferred stock and the terms of such preferred stock without further action by holders of our common stock. If we issue additional shares of preferred stock, it could affect the rights or reduce the value of our common stock. In particular, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with or sell our assets to a third party. These terms may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions. We continue to seek capital for the growth of our business, and this additional capital may be raised through the issuance of additional preferred stock. 18 Table of Contents We experience significant quarterly fluctuation of our results of operations, which may increase the volatility of our stock price. Our results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the timing of the development and marketing of new pharmaceutical products, the failure to develop such products, delays in obtaining government approvals, including FDA approval of NDAs or ANDAs for our products, expenditures to comply with governmental requirements for manufacturing facilities, expenditures incurred to acquire and promote pharmaceutical products, changes in our customer base, a customer’s termination of a substantial account, the availability and cost of raw materials, interruptions in supply by third-party manufacturers, the introduction of new products or technological innovations by our competitors, loss of key personnel, changes in the mix of products sold by us, changes in sales and marketing expenditures, competitive pricing pressures, expenditures incurred to pursue or contest pending or threatened legal action and our ability to meet our financial covenants. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in avoiding losses in any future period. Such fluctuations may result in volatility in the price of our common stock. “Penny Stock” rules may make buying or selling our common stock difficult. As of March 23, 2009, the market price of our common stock did not exceed $5.00 per share. Because our market price has fallen below $5.00 per share, trading in our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that generally define a penny stock to be any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules would require that any broker-dealer that would recommend our common stock to persons other than prior customers and accredited investors, must, prior to the sale, make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to execute the transaction. Unless an exception is available, the regulations would require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with trading in the penny stock market. In addition, broker-dealers must disclose commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities they offer. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market price and liquidity of our common stock. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard setting bodies may adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. The application of accounting principles is also subject to varying interpretations over time. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards or comply with revised interpretations that are issued from time to time by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the SEC. Those changes could adversely affect our reported revenues, profitability, and financial condition. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”). These requirements are extensive. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight is required. This may divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 