Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Language Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. This report contains “forward looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include the discussion of our business strategies and expectations concerning future operations, margins, profitability, liquidity and capital resources. In addition, in certain portions of this report, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “expect,” “plan” and “intend” and similar expressions, as they relate to us or our management, are intended to identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward looking statements. These statements are based upon the current expectations and assumptions of, and on information available to, our management. Further, investors are cautioned that, unless required by law, we do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements based on unanticipated events or changed expectations. In addition to specific factors that may be described in connection with any particular forward-looking statement, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements include (but are not limited to) the following: Our new credit agreement subjects us to new covenants, including EBITDA covenants at increasing levels. On June 28, 2006, we entered into a new $325 million credit agreement and borrowed $250 million thereunder to terminate and repay all outstanding borrowings under our prior Canadian and U.S. revolving credit facilities and our Halsey pulp mill financings, and to terminate and repurchase all outstanding receivables under our receivable sales arrangement. As further described in Item 8, Note 8, “Debt,” the credit agreement, as amended December 31, 2006, contains covenants including one based on defined EBITDA, which will require us 11 Table of Contents to generate EBITDA of at least $25 million for the four-quarter period ended March 31, 2007, EBITDA of at least $30 million for the four-quarter periods ended June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2007, $45 million for the four-quarter period ended December 31, 2007 and further increasing levels in subsequent periods up to $70 million for 2009. Our EBITDA, as defined for the year ended December 31, 2006, was $39.4 million which excludes substantially all lumber import duties for the period and does not include a full year’s impact of Canadian export taxes; so to meet this covenant in 2007 and thereafter, we will be required to substantially improve our EBITDA from recent levels. Any failure by us to comply with applicable covenants, or to obtain waivers therefrom, would result in an event of default with respect to, and could result in the acceleration of a portion of our debt, which, in turn, could lead to our inability to pay our debts. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In connection with our 2006 financial statements our independent registered public accounting firm issued an unqualified opinion containing an explanatory paragraph that states that we have significant borrowings with financial covenants subject to quarterly measurement as to which our ability to comply in future periods is uncertain, raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and the amount and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. The fact that this opinion has been issued could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and cash flows, by causing parties we deal with to question our financial ability to perform our obligations. For example, one or more of our suppliers could decide not to sell to us or impose restrictive sales terms. Financial uncertainty also could affect our relationships with customers, employees and others. Our indebtedness could reduce our ability to use cash flow for purposes other than debt service or otherwise restrict our activities. Our total debt as a percentage of total capitalization at December 31, 2006 was 73 percent. This leverage, or higher leverage if we were to incur additional indebtedness, could have important consequences. Our high level of leverage requires a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to satisfy debt service requirements, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes. High leverage also limits flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and increases vulnerability to a downturn in the business and general adverse economic and industry conditions. Exchange rate fluctuations have harmed and could continue to harm our operating results and cash flows. Although our sales are made primarily in U.S. dollars, the majority of our operating costs and expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. This results in significant earnings sensitivity to changes in the U.S. – Canadian exchange rate. An increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar increases our reported manufacturing costs and adversely affects our cash flows, while a decrease has an opposite effect. A substantial portion of our pulp customer base is in Europe, Asia and other non-U.S. markets. As such, the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies directly affects our customers’ ability to pay and our relative competitive cost position with other regions’ pulps. Our earnings are also exposed to fluctuations in the Canadian to U.S. dollar exchange rate from the monthly remeasurement of non-functional monetary assets and liabilities held by our Canadian subsidiaries. The functional currency of the Canadian subsidiaries is the Canadian dollar and their non-functional monetary assets and liabilities primarily consist of U.S. dollar denominated debt, cash, and accounts receivable. Remeasurement of these non-functional monetary assets and liabilities produces foreign currency gains and losses that are recorded in cost of sales as described in more detail in “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Overview-Exchange Rate Fluctuations.” 12 Table of Contents We engage in hedging activities to mitigate the volatile impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our operating results. See Item 8, Note 6, “Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments” of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our hedging activities are designed to reduce and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impacts but also positive impacts from the relationship of the U.S. dollar to the Canadian dollar and our exposure position. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Canadian dollar. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. Fluctuations in our product prices and demand could harm our operating results and cash flows. Our financial performance depends primarily on the prices we receive for our products. Prices for both pulp and lumber products are highly cyclical and have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. Increases or decreases in production capacity, increases or decreases in operating rates and changes in customer consumption patterns will cause changes in product prices. The economic climate of each region where our products are sold has a significant impact on the demand, and therefore the prices, for pulp and lumber. Changes in regional economies can cause fluctuation in prices and sales volumes and, as a result, directly affect our profitability and cash flows. The continued uncertainties in the economic conditions of the United States and other international markets could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The amount of downtime that our mills take fluctuates based on changes in pricing and demand for our products. Any future downward fluctuation in prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our markets are highly competitive. Our products are sold primarily in the United States, Europe, Canada and Asia. The markets for our products are highly competitive on a global basis, with a number of major companies competing in each market with no company holding a dominant position. For both lumber and pulp, a large number of companies produce products that are reasonably standardized; therefore, the traditional basis for competition has been price. Other competitive factors are quality of product, reliability of supply and customer service. In recent years, we have experienced increased competition and pricing pressure from new low-cost hardwood pulp producers in South America. Because of greater resources, many of our competitors may be able to make greater investments in technology or other cost cutting improvements, adapt more quickly to industrial changes or devote greater resources to the sale of their products. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully against such competitors. We currently face and could continue to face significant export taxes on lumber exported from our Canadian operations. On December 14, 2006, the Canadian Parliament enacted legislation implementing the system of export charges outlined in the Canada—U.S. Softwood Lumber Agreement, (2006 SLA), which had been administratively collected since the effective date. The majority of the provisions were retroactively effective as of October 12, 2006 with some technical provisions becoming effective in 2007. The export charge structure applicable to the British Columbia Interior Region, where our Canadian operations are located, requires export charges to be paid in any month only when the Prevailing Monthly Price, as established by an average of the Random Lengths Framing Lumber Composite Index for the four-week period ending approximately 21 days before the beginning of the month, is less than or equal to $355 as measured in U.S. dollars per thousand board feet. The export charge for any month will be 5 percent if the Prevailing Monthly Price is at or below $355, 10 percent if the Prevailing Monthly Price is at or below $335, and 15 percent if the Prevailing Monthly Price is at or below $315. Additionally, if shipments from a region in any month exceed a specified Trigger Volume, generally representing 110 percent of the region’s share of a 34 percent total Canadian market share of expected U.S. softwood lumber consumption for the month, then a surge charge of 50 percent of the export charge for the 13 Table of Contents month will be retroactively levied against all shipments from the region. For the term of the 2006 SLA, periods of relatively low lumber market prices (when the Prevailing Monthly Price is below $355) will be accompanied by the imposition of export taxes on our lumber shipments to the U.S., compounding the adverse effects of low lumber prices on our results of operations and cash flows. The availability and pricing of the raw materials we use are subject to fluctuations, which could increase our expenses. Logs, wood chips and sawdust, the principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products, are purchased in highly competitive, price-sensitive markets. These raw materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Supply and price of these raw materials are dependent upon a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Other factors include changing environmental and conservation regulations and natural disasters, such as forest fires, infestations, wind storms or other extreme weather conditions. The steady decline of lumber prices in 2006 has caused some sawmills located in both the U.S. and Canada to cease or reduce production that has constrained the availability and quality of wood chip supply for the Company’s pulp mills and has negatively impacted fiber costs and mill productivity. Availability, quality and cost of wood chips will continue to be negatively impacted until the lumber industry improves. A decrease in the supply of logs, wood chips and sawdust can cause higher raw material costs and, as a result, material fluctuations in our results of operations and cash flows. Our Nanaimo pulp mill’s long-term fiber supply agreement with Weyerhaeuser Company Limited (Weyerhaeuser) was assumed by Cascadia Forest Products LTD (Cascadia) in May 2005, concurrent with the sale of Weyerhaeuser’s coastal sawmill and timberlands. Cascadia was acquired by Western Forest Products, Inc. (Western) in May 2006. The contract allows us to acquire 1.7 million cubic meters of fiber per year through 2019. Western owns a number of mills in the surrounding area, any of which it may run to fulfill demand under the contract. Our Mackenzie pulp mill purchases approximately 64 percent of its fiber requirements from a sawmill located in Mackenzie, British Columbia and operated by Canfor Corporation (Canfor). Fiber is purchased at market or at prices determined under a formula intended to reflect market value of the fiber. The failure by Western or Canfor to produce the required fiber pursuant to these contracts could have a material adverse effect on us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of softwood fiber for our pulp operations from these or alternate suppliers at costs that will allow us to remain competitive. Our operations require substantial capital, and we may not have adequate capital resources to meet all of our capital requirements. Our businesses are capital intensive, and we regularly incur capital expenditures to expand our operations, maintain our equipment, increase our operating efficiency and comply with environmental laws. Our total capital expenditures in 2006 were $27.2 million, and we expect to spend approximately $25.0 million on capital expenditures during 2007. Our credit agreement limits our capital expenditures to $30 million per year, but with the unspent portion of the $30 million limit in any year (up to a maximum of $15 million) being available for expenditure in the next year. In addition, our debt service obligations reduce our available cash flows. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our equipment or ensure environmental compliance, we could be required to cease or curtail some of our manufacturing operations, or we may become unable to manufacture our products at costs or quality that can compete effectively in one or more of our markets. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation. Our pulp and lumber operations are subject to a variety of national and local laws and regulations, many of which deal with the environment. These laws and regulations impose stringent standards on our operations regarding, among other things, air emissions, water discharges, use and handling of hazardous materials, use, handling and disposal of waste and remediation of environmental contamination. Changes in these laws or regulations have in the past, and could in the future, require us to make substantial expenditures in order to comply, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents We may be subject to environmental liabilities that could require substantial expenditures. We are currently participating in the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at two sites on which we previously conducted business. In addition, we are working with the Ministry of Environment in British Columbia regarding environmental contamination at the Mackenzie mill. We may also be required to investigate and remediate environmental conditions at other sites if contamination, presently unknown to us, is discovered. The ultimate cost to us for site remediation and monitoring of these sites cannot be predicted with certainty due to the difficulties in estimating the ultimate cost of remediation and determining the extent to which contributions will be available from other parties. Expenditures that may be required in connection with these sites could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to Canadian forest management policies and regulations that could harm our supply and cost of logs. In March 2003, the Provincial Government of British Columbia (Crown) introduced the Forestry Revitalization Plan, (Plan) that provided for significant changes to Crown forest policy and to the existing allocation of Crown timber tenures to licensees. The changes prescribed in the Plan included the elimination of minimum cut control regulations, the elimination of existing timber processing regulations, and the elimination of restrictions limiting the transfer and subdivision of existing licenses. In addition, the Crown legislated that licensees, including us, were required to return to the Crown 20 percent of their annual allowable cut (AAC) in excess of 200,000 cubic meters. As a result, our historical mix of approximately 70 percent tenure acquired logs and 30 percent open market log purchases has shifted to a mix of approximately 48 percent tenure acquired logs and 52 percent open market log purchases. Our AAC was reduced by 177,000 cubic meters and 22,000 cubic meters at the beginning of 2006 and 2007, respectively. The timber tenure acquired with the Fort St. James sawmill had already been reduced under the Plan and was not subject to further reduction. To date the Company has been able to make up reductions in it’s AAC through market purchases of logs at costs generally consistent with the cost of logs acquired under tenures and in some cases lower than the cost of logs acquired from tenures. However, there is no assurance that our increased dependence on purchased logs will not have an adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows over time. In addition, effective July 1, 2006, the Crown implemented the terms of the market-based timber pricing system for setting stumpage fees in the British Columbia interior. Although we generally do not expect the new system to result in any significant change in stumpage fee levels, there can be no assurance that this will be the case. We depend on third parties for transportation services. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of the products we manufacture and distribute, as well as for delivery of our raw materials. In particular, a significant portion of the goods we manufacture and raw materials we use are transported by railroad, trucks, and ships. If any of our third-party transportation providers were to fail to deliver the goods we manufacture or distribute in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell those products at full value, or at all. Similarly, if any of these providers were to fail to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products in response to customer demand. In addition, if any of these third parties were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to replace them at reasonable cost. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or finished products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively impact our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. A material disruption at one of our facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and negatively impact our net income. One or more of our major pulp mills or sawmills, or one of its larger machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including prolonged power 15 Table of Contents failures; an equipment failure; a chemical spill or release; explosion of a boiler; the effect of a drought or reduced rainfall on water supply; disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks and tunnels; fires, floods, earthquakes, or other catastrophes; terrorism or threats of terrorism; labor difficulties; or other operational problems. Any such downtime or facility damage could prevent us from meeting customer demand for our products and/or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures. An increase in the cost of our purchased energy would lead to higher manufacturing costs, which could adversely affect our operating results. Energy is vital to our operations and is one of our significant raw materials. We estimate that energy comprised approximately 11 percent of the cost of sales of the Pulp segment and approximately three percent of the cost of sales of the Wood Products segment during 2006. Energy prices, particularly for electricity and natural gas, have been volatile in recent years. These fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and contribute to earnings volatility. Increases in the cost of purchased energy have adversely affected, and further increases in such costs could further adversely affect, our operating results and cash flows. If our relationships with our union employees were to deteriorate, we could be faced with labor shortages, disruptions or stoppages, which could adversely affect our business and reduce operating margins and income. Approximately 80 percent of our employees are paid on an hourly basis and most of these employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements. If we were unable to reach agreement on the terms of any collective bargaining agreement with any group of our employees, we could be subject to work slowdowns or stoppages. Our forest operations may be adversely affected by First Nations People’s claims to Canadian land. Our Canadian forest operations are primarily carried out on public forestlands under forest licenses. Many of these lands are subject to the constitutionally protected treaty or common law rights of the First Nations people of Canada. First Nations groups in British Columbia have made claims of ownership or interests in substantial portions of land in the Province and are seeking compensation from the Crown with respect to these claims. The Supreme Court of Canada has held that the First Nations groups have a spectrum of aboriginal rights in lands that have been traditionally used or occupied by their ancestors. The Court’s decision did not apply to any particular lands and was stated in general terms. The Court held that aboriginal rights and title are not absolute and may be infringed upon by government in furtherance of a legislative objective, including forestry, subject to meeting a justification test and being consistent with the fiduciary relationship between the Crown and First Nations groups. To address the claims of the First Nations groups, the governments of Canada and British Columbia instituted a negotiation process under the administration of a treaty commission. In July 2002, the voting public approved a referendum of principles for treaty making. This gave provincial negotiators the authority to negotiate and make commitments on topics that are consistent with the referendum principles and for which current policies exist. Any settlements that may result from the negotiation process may involve a combination of cash and resources and grants of conditional rights to gather food on public lands and some rights of self-government. The issues surrounding aboriginal rights and title are not likely to be resolved by the Canadian governments in the near future. In November 2004, the Supreme Court of Canada confirmed that the Crown has a duty to consult with First Nations when the Crown has knowledge, real or constructive, of the potential existence of an aboriginal right or title and contemplates conduct that might adversely impact it. The consultation process required by the Court is currently not clearly defined, creating some uncertainty regarding Crown processes for grants and renewals of timber tenures. If significant areas of Canada are found by the courts to be subject to aboriginal title, the Company’s forest tenures and its ability to harvest timber from those tenures could be materially adversely affected. A reduction in the timber supply could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 