ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Continued weakness or worsening of economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our financial performance and our liquidity. The global economic recession and declines in consumption in our end markets have adversely affected sales of both commercial and consumer products and profitability for such products. Further, the global financial markets have been experiencing volatility. Slower sales of consumer digital products due to the uncertain economic environment could lead to reduced sales and earnings while inventory increases. Economic conditions could also accelerate the continuing decline in demand for traditional products, which could also place pressure on our results of operations and liquidity. As a result of the tightening of credit in the global financial markets, our commercial customers have experienced difficulty in obtaining financing for significant equipment purchases, resulting in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products and services and we can provide no assurance that this trend will not continue. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in our customers’ ability to pay as a result of the economic downturn and our treasury operations could be negatively impacted by failures of financial instrument counterparties, including banks and other financial institutions. If the global economic weakness and tightness in the credit markets continue for a greater period of time than anticipated or worsen, our profitability and related cash generation capability could be adversely affected and, therefore, affect our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs, impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. If we are unsuccessful with the strategic investment decisions we have made, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We have made a decision to focus our investments on businesses in large growth markets that are positioned for technology and business model transformation, which are consumer inkjet, commercial inkjet (including our Prosper line of products based upon the Company’s Stream technology), enterprise workflow, and digital packaging printing solutions, all of which we believe have significant growth potential. Introduction of successful innovative products and the achievement of scale are necessary for us to grow these businesses, improve margins and achieve our future financial success. We are also continuing to build upon our leading positions in businesses that participate in large stable markets. Our current strategic plans require significant attention from our management team and if events occur that distract management’s attention and resources, our business could be harmed. Further, if we are unsuccessful in growing our investment businesses as planned and maintaining and building upon our leading market positions, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 10 If we cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop and market new products to respond to changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect our revenues. Due to changes in technology and customer preferences, the market for traditional film and paper products and services is in decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to manage the decline of the market for these traditional products by continuing to reduce our cost structure to maintain profitability. In addition, we must develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner that keep pace with technological developments and that are accepted in the market. Further, we may expend significant resources to develop and introduce new products that are not commercially accepted for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, failure to successfully market our products, competition from existing and new competitors or product quality concerns. In addition, if we are unable to anticipate and develop improvements to our current technology, to adapt our products to changing customer preferences or requirements or to continue to produce high quality products in a timely and cost effective manner in order to compete with products offered by our competitors, this could adversely affect our revenues. The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margins and market share. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all our products and services from numerous companies globally. Over the past several years, price competition in the market for digital products, film products and services has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their profit margins for these products. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry wide pricing pressures. If our products and services and pricing are not sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, we could also lose market share, adversely affecting our revenue and gross margins. If we have product quality issues, our expenses may increase, our liquidity may decrease, or our reputation may be harmed, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products and services, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Because our products are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complicated to design and build as rapid advances in technologies occur, the occurrence of defects may increase, particularly with the introduction of new product lines. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. Finding solutions to quality issues can be expensive and we may also incur expenses in connection with, for example, product recalls and warranty or other service obligations. We may also face lawsuits if our products do not meet customer expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business as well as our financial results. If we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, our revenue, earnings, expenses and liquidity may be adversely impacted. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. 11 We have made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and have filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect our intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of our licensees. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. The execution and enforcement of licensing agreements protects our intellectual property rights and provides a revenue stream in the form of up-front payments and royalties that enables us to further innovate and provide the marketplace with new products and services. There can be no assurance that such measures alone will be adequate to protect our intellectual property. Our ability to execute our intellectual property licensing strategies, including litigation strategies, such as our recent legal actions against Apple Inc. and Research in Motion Limited, could also affect our revenue and earnings. Additionally, the uncertainty around the timing and magnitude of our intellectual property-related judgments and settlements could have an adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity. Our failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect our market positions and business opportunities. Furthermore, our failure to identify and implement licensing programs, including identifying appropriate licensees, could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. In addition, third parties may claim that we, our customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit our access to digital markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like ours. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Finally, we use open source software in connection with our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. We have a corporate open source governance board to monitor the use of open source software in our products and services and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose the source code to the related product or service or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement. Such use could inadvertently occur and any requirement to disclose our source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to our customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial position. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide financing to our customers in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers’ creditworthiness. The tightening of credit in the global financial markets has adversely affected the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases, which resulted in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products and services, and we can provide no assurance that this trend will not continue. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to our customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial position. 12 Our future pension and other postretirement plan costs and required level of contributions could be unfavorably impacted by changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance of plan assets and obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. We have significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The funded status of our U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations, funded status and expense recognition include the discount rate for future payment obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, salary growth, healthcare cost trend rates, and other economic and demographic factors. Significant differences in actual experience, or significant changes in future assumptions or obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities could lead to a potential future need to contribute cash or assets to our plans in excess of currently estimated contributions and benefit payments and could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. If we cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, our business could be harmed. In order for us to be successful, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research professionals, and qualified sales representatives is critical to our future. Competition for experienced employees in the industries in which we compete is intense. The market for employees with digital skills is highly competitive and, therefore, our ability to attract such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and persuading potential employees that we are well positioned for success in the digital markets in which we are operating. Given that our compensation plans are highly performance based and given the potential impact of the global economy on our current and future performance, it may become more challenging to retain key employees. We also must keep employees focused on our strategic initiatives and goals in order to be successful. Our past restructuring actions harm our efforts to attract and retain key employees. If we cannot attract properly qualified individuals, retain key executives and employees or motivate our employees, our business could be harmed. Our sales are typically concentrated in the last four months of the fiscal year, therefore, lower than expected demand or increases in costs during that period may have a pronounced negative effect on our results of operations. The demand for our consumer products is largely discretionary in nature, and sales and earnings of our consumer businesses are linked to the timing of holidays, vacations, and other leisure or gifting seasons. Accordingly, we have typically experienced greater net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter as compared to the other three quarters. Developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for our products, an internal systems failure, increases in materials costs, or failure of one of our key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, particularly if such developments occur late in the third quarter or during the fourth fiscal quarter. Further, with respect to the Graphic Communications Group segment, equipment and consumable sales in the commercial marketplace peak in the fourth quarter based on increased commercial print demand. Tight credit markets that limit capital investments or a weak economy that decreases print demand could negatively impact equipment or consumable sales. In addition, our inability to achieve intellectual property licensing revenues in the timeframe and amount we anticipate could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flow. These external developments are often unpredictable and may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell and deliver our products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels to various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and earnings. Due to changes in our go to market models, we are more reliant on fewer distributors than in past periods. This has concentrated our credit and operational risk and could result in an adverse impact on our financial performance. 13 Due to the nature of the products we sell and our worldwide distribution, we are subject to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity costs that may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in markets in which we do business tend to be volatile and at times, our sales can be negatively impacted across all of our segments depending upon the value of the U.S. dollar. In addition, our products contain silver, aluminum, petroleum based or other commodity-based raw materials, the changes in the costs of which can be volatile. If the global economic situation remains uncertain or worsens, there could be further volatility in changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, which could have negative effects on our revenue and earnings. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics and back office operations and face the risks associated with relying on third party suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics, customer support and administrative operations (such as credit and collections, and general ledger accounting functions) to third parties. To the extent that we rely on third party service providers, we face the risk that those third parties may not be able to: • develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products; • maintain an adequate control environment; • quickly respond to changes in customer demand for our products; • obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process; or • mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or disruptions. As a result of such risks, our costs could be higher than planned and the reliability of our products could be negatively impacted. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to duration of our contracts with suppliers for components and materials and risks related to dependency on single source suppliers on favorable terms or at all. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming alternative third party relationships could not be established, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in our inability to meet customer demand for our products, damage to our relationships with our customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to effectively complete, integrate and manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions could adversely impact our business performance including our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions and enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees and the assessment of such acquired companies’ internal controls. Integration and other risks of transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have an adverse effect on our revenue, gross margins and profitability. In addition, unpredictability surrounding the timing of such transactions could adversely affect our financial results. 14 System integration issues could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Portions of our information technology infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. In particular, we are in the process of completing integration of certain of our regional operations’ systems into our corporate SAP structure. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Such disruption could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders and could also interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, higher costs or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results and reputation. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, political or economic instability, and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. In addition, some areas, including parts of the east and west coasts of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. These events could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, and increase our costs and expenses. We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of our goodwill, which would increase expenses and reduce profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. We test goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. This may occur for various reasons including changes in actual or expected income or cash flows of a reporting unit. We continue to evaluate current conditions that may affect the fair value of our reporting units to assess whether any goodwill impairment exists. Secular declines in the results of the Film, Photofinishing and Entertainment Group segment are likely to lead to impairment of goodwill related to that segment in the future. In addition, impairments of goodwill could occur in the future if market or interest rate environments deteriorate, expected future cash flows of our reporting units decline, or if reporting unit carrying values change materially compared with changes in respective fair values. The private equity firm KKR may have interests that diverge from our interests and the interests of our other security holders. KKR beneficially owns a significant equity position in the Company through its warrant holdings and may have interests that diverge from our interests and the interests of our security holders. In addition, so long as KKR maintains beneficial ownership of specified thresholds of our shares of common stock, it will have the right to nominate up to two members of our board of directors and will be entitled to certain information rights and a right to participate in future offerings of our equity securities. KKR is in the business of investing in companies and they are not restricted from investing in our current or future competitors. Future events may give rise to a divergence of interests between KKR and us or our other security holders. Our failure to implement plans to reduce our cost structure in anticipation of declining demand for certain products or delays in implementing such plans could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We recognize the need to continually rationalize our workforce and streamline our operations to remain competitive in the face of an ever-changing business and economic climate. If we fail to implement cost rationalization plans such as restructuring of manufacturing, supply chain, marketing sales and administrative resources ahead of declining demand for certain of our products and services, our operations results, financial position and liquidity could be negatively impacted. In 2009, we implemented a targeted cost reduction program, which we refer to as the 2009 Program, to more appropriately size the organization as a result of the economic downturn. While most of the actions 15 under the 2009 Program were completed in 2009, we expect some remaining actions to be completed during the first half of 2010. If we fail to successfully execute our remaining rationalization activities under our 2009 Program, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Additionally, if the restructuring plans are not effectively managed, we may experience lost customer sales, product delays and other unanticipated effects, causing harm to our business and customer relationships. Finally, the timing and implementation of these plans require compliance with numerous laws and regulations, including local labor laws, and the failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages, fines and penalties which could adversely affect our business. The implementation of new legislation or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could increase our cost to comply and consequently reduce our profitability. New business legislation or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulation, including interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulators, could adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our cost to comply. For example, new tax, labor, health care, product safety, environmental and securities laws and regulations have been proposed and such proposals or other proposals may be enacted in the future that require us to adopt new policies, internal controls and other compliance practices or modify existing production facilities and operations. Each of these compliance initiatives could lead to internal and external cost increases, and negatively impact our profitability. Our future results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international sales and operations. Because we sell our products worldwide and many of the facilities where our devices are manufactured, distributed and supported are located outside the United States, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: • supporting multiple languages; • recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and support our products; • complying with governmental regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for our products; • complexity of managing international operations; • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • commercial laws and business practices that may favor local competition; • multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, labor, anti-bribery and employment laws; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • limitations or restrictions on the repatriation of cash; • reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; • managing research and development teams in geographically disparate locations, including Canada, Israel, Japan, China, and Singapore; • complicated logistics and distribution arrangements; and • political or economic instability. While we sell our products in most parts of the world, one component of our strategy is to further expand our international sales efforts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in all of our targeted international markets. If our international efforts are not successful, our business growth and results of operations could be harmed. Our results of operations may suffer if we do not effectively manage our inventory, and we may incur inventory-related charges. We need to manage our inventory of component parts and finished goods effectively to meet changing customer requirements. Accurately forecasting customers’ product needs is difficult. Some of our products and supplies have in the past, and may in the future, become obsolete while in inventory due to rapidly changing customer tastes or a decrease in customer demand. If we are not able to manage our inventory effectively, we may need to write down the value of some of our existing inventory or write off non-saleable or obsolete inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We have from time to time incurred significant inventory-related charges. Any such charges we incur in future periods could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 16 We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and failure to comply with such laws and regulations or liabilities imposed as a result of such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, including laws regarding the discharge of pollutants, including greenhouse gases, into the air and water, the need for environmental permits for certain operations, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling and treatment and disposal of our products. If we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the use and management of hazardous substances, then we could be subject to liability and/or could be prohibited from operating certain facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply with certain regulations could result in fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage or personal injury claims and clean up costs. We cannot provide assurance that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and permits. Certain environmental laws and regulations impose liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost to investigate, remove or remediate hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator of property did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. These laws and regulations also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal, reclamation or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. Such persons can be responsible for cleanup costs even if they never owned or operated the contaminated facility. At December 31, 2009, we had accrued liabilities of $102 million for various environmental matters. The majority of this reserve relates to contamination at our Eastman Business Park site in Rochester, New York. Certain other costs relate to liability at Superfund sites, including the Passaic River in the state of New Jersey. While the accrued liabilities represent our current best estimate of costs for those matters, the ultimate costs could exceed that amount. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental laws and regulations and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances (including our liability for the matters comprising our environmental reserve) will not adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. We have incurred significant debt and related interest expenses as a result of the issuance of $300 million aggregate principal amount of the 10.5% 2017 Senior Notes and $400 million of our 7.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2017 in September 2009 and previously issued debt. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the notes and in any other agreements under which we incur indebtedness. Our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. For example, our high level of debt presents the following risks: · we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances and other general corporate requirements as well as making it more difficult for us to make payments on the notes; · our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; 17 · our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; · our level of debt and the covenants within our debt instruments may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and · covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay dividends, issue new or additional debt or make other restricted payments and investments. A failure to comply with the covenants and other provisions of our debt instruments could result in events of default under such instruments, which could permit acceleration of our various outstanding notes. Any required repayment of our indebtedness as a result of acceleration would lower our current cash on hand such that we would not have those funds available for use in our business. In addition, we may not have sufficient cash on hand to pay all such amounts in the event of an acceleration. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness when payment is due, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the instruments relating to the indebtedness, seek to refinance all or a portion of the indebtedness or obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that: · our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; · we will realize cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements resulting from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or · future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. If we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, including the notes, or seeking additional equity capital. Such actions could further negatively impact our ability to generate cash flows. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Certain of our debt instruments limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition of assets and, as a result, we may not be allowed, under those instruments, to use the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all current debt service obligations. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. 18 Restrictions imposed by our debt instruments limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. Our debt instruments impose operating and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Our debt instruments also limit, among other things, the ability of us and our restricted subsidiaries to: · incur additional indebtedness and issue certain preferred stock; · create liens; · pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock; · purchase or redeem capital stock; · make certain investments or other restricted payments; · sell assets; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · effect a consolidation or merger. However, these limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. If the excess availability under our Credit Agreement falls below $100 million for a specified period, the Credit Agreement also requires us to maintain compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to comply with this covenant may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our Credit Agreement or our inability to comply with the required financial ratio, when applicable, could result in a default under the Credit Agreement. If an event of default occurs and we are not able to obtain a waiver from the requisite lenders under the Credit Agreement, the administrative agent of the Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable, and may terminate the lenders’ commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 