ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Due to the Debtors’ restructuring process under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors’ future operations are uncertain and are affected by a number of risks and uncertainties over which the Company has little or no control. The Debtors are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties associated with the filing of voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which may lead to potential adverse effects on the Debtors’ liquidity, results of operations, brand or business prospects. We cannot assure you of the outcome of the Debtors’ chapter 11 proceedings. Risks associated with the chapter 11 proceedings may adversely impact all entities, including the non-filing Entities, and include an adverse impact on the following: • the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern; • the Debtors’ ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the chapter 11 proceedings and the outcomes of Bankruptcy Court rulings of the proceedings in general; • the length of time the Debtors will operate under the chapter 11 proceedings and its ability to successfully emerge; • the ability of the Debtors to develop, consummate and implement one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the chapter 11 proceedings; • the Debtors’ ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court and creditor approval of their plan of reorganization and the impact of alternative proposals, views and objections of creditor committees and other stakeholders, which may make it difficult to develop and consummate a plan of reorganization in a timely manner; • risks associated with third party motions in the chapter 11 proceedings, which may interfere with the Debtors’ plan of reorganization; • the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity throughout the chapter 11 proceedings; • the ability of the Company to secure sufficient financing to support its reorganization and emergence from bankruptcy; • increased costs related to the bankruptcy filing and other litigation; • The Debtors’ ability to manage contracts that are critical to operations, to obtain and maintain appropriate terms with customers, suppliers and service providers; • whether the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries continue to operate their businesses in the normal course; • the ability to fairly resolve legacy liabilities in alignment with the Debtors’ plan of reorganization; • the outcome of all pre-petition claims against the Debtors; and • the Company’s ability to maintain existing customers, vendor relationships and expand sales to new customers. Continued investment, capital needs, restructuring payments and servicing the Company’s debt require a significant amount of cash and the Company may not be able to generate cash necessary to finance these activities, which could adversely affect its business, operating results and financial condition and, as a result, its ability to successfully emerge from bankruptcy. The Company’s business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay the principal of, or interest on the Company’s indebtedness, or to fund the Company’s other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, costs related to the cases and other general corporate requirements. 9 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, litigation, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. We cannot assure you that: • the Company’s businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; • the Company will be able to generate sufficient cash proceeds through the disposition of the Company’s Personalized Imaging, Document Imaging and other businesses; • the Company will be able to repatriate or move cash to locations where and when it is needed; • the Company will realize cost savings, earnings growth and operating improvements resulting from the execution of the Debtors’ chapter 11 business and restructuring plan; or • future sources of funding will be available to the Company in amounts sufficient to enable it to fund the Company’s liquidity needs. If we cannot fund the Company’s liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, and investments and alliances; selling additional assets; restructuring or refinancing the Company’s debt; or seeking additional equity capital. These actions may be restricted as a result of the Debtors’ chapter 11 proceedings, the DIP Credit Agreement, and, if completed, the Junior DIP Facility. Such actions could increase the Company’s debt, negatively impact customer confidence in the Company’s ability to provide products and services, reduce the Company’s ability to raise additional capital, delay sustained profitability, and adversely affect the Debtors’ ability to emerge from bankruptcy. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet the Company’s scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with the Company’s substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service the Company’s debt or generate enough cash flow to fund the Company’s liquidity needs, could intensify. The Company’s plans to raise cash proceeds from the sale of the Personalized and Document Imaging businesses and the sale of non-core assets may not be successful in raising sufficient cash, may be negatively impacted by factors beyond the Company’s control and may harm the perception of us among customers, suppliers and service providers. A number of factors could influence the Company’s ability to successfully raise cash through business and asset sales, including the approval of the Bankruptcy Court and the Unsecured Creditors Committee under chapter 11, the process utilized to sell these businesses and assets, the limited number of potential buyers for these businesses and assets, the purchase price such buyers are willing to offer for these businesses and assets and their capacity to fund the purchase, or the ability of potential buyers to conclude transactions and potential issues in the closing of transactions due to regulatory or governmental review processes. One or more of these factors, or other unknown factors, could negatively affect the timing of planned sales and the level of cash proceeds derived from the sales which could adversely impact the Company’s cash generation and liquidity. Further, there is no assurance that these plans will be successful in raising sufficient cash proceeds or that the sale of certain of the Company’s businesses and assets, will not harm the Company’s customers’, suppliers’ and service providers’ perception of us. If we are unsuccessful with the Company’s strategic investment decisions, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company has focused its investments on commercial businesses in large growth markets that are positioned for technology and business model transformation, specifically, commercial inkjet, packaging and functional printing solutions, and enterprise services. While we believe each of these businesses has significant growth potential, they may also require additional investment and may not be successful strategies when implemented. The introduction of successful innovative products at market competitive prices, and the achievement of scale are necessary for us to grow these businesses, improve margins and achieve the Company’s financial objectives. The introduction of products requires great precision in forecasting demand and understanding commercial business requirements in a rapidly moving marketplace. If we are unsuccessful in growing the Company’s investment businesses as planned, or perceiving the needs of the rapidly changing commercial businesses, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company’s failure to implement plans, or delays in implementing plans to reduce the Company’s cost structure could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We recognize and have communicated the need to rationalize Kodak’s workforce and streamline operations to a leaner more focused organization aligned with its identified emerging businesses and operations. We have started implementing such cost rationalization plans including a restructuring of resources, manufacturing, supply chain, marketing, sales and administrative resources, the Company’s operations, results, financial position and liquidity could be negatively impacted. There are no assurances that such implementation will be successful or that the results we achieve will be consistent with our expectations. Additionally, if restructuring plans are not effectively managed, we may experience lost customer sales, product delays and other unanticipated effects, causing harm to our business and customer relationships. The business plan associated with the Company’s chapter 11 reorganization is subject to a number of assumptions, projections, and analysis. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may be unsuccessful in executing the Company’s business plan or achieving the projected results, which could adversely impact our financial results and liquidity. Finally, the timing and implementation of these plans require compliance with numerous 10 Table of Contents laws and regulations, including local labor laws, and the failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages, fines and penalties which could adversely affect the Company’s business. The consummation of the Junior DIP Facility financing and borrowing of loans thereunder is subject to a number of conditions, and there is no assurance that these conditions will be satisfied or waived. If we are unable to close our Junior DIP Financing on favorable terms or at all, or if, in such event, we are unable to obtain alternative sources of financing, our ability to finance our operations may be adversely affected. The consummation of the Junior DIP Facility financing is subject to a number of conditions, including, among others, an amendment of our DIP Credit Agreement becoming effective, the absence of any material adverse effect since September 30, 2012 and the occurrence of the closing of the Junior DIP Facility no later than April 5, 2013. There is no assurance that these conditions will be satisfied or waived. If we fail to satisfy any of these conditions, including any conditions to the amendment of our DIP Credit Agreement becoming effective, the financing under the Junior DIP Facility will not be made available to us, which, unless we are able to secure alternative sources of financing, may adversely affect our liquidity and, consequently, our businesses, operating results, financial condition and our ability to emerge from bankruptcy. In addition, a portion of the loans under the Junior DIP Facility will convert into loans under the related exit facility if we meet the conditions precedent to conversion. If we consummate our Junior DIP Financing but fail to meet the conditions precedent to conversion, we will be required to repay in cash our Junior DIP Facility together with accrued and unpaid interest, which may adversely impact our ability to emerge from bankruptcy. The Company’s inability to effectively complete and manage divestitures and other significant transactions could adversely impact the Company’s business performance including the Company’s financial results. As part of the Company’s strategy, we are engaged in discussions with third parties regarding possible divestitures, asset sales, investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further the Company’s business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable buyers, sellers and partners and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post closing issues such as the elimination of any post sale cost overhang related to divested businesses. Risks of transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further the Company’s strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, gross margins and profitability. In addition, unpredictability surrounding the timing of such transactions could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to meet the requirements under our DIP Credit Agreement and, if applicable, the Junior DIP Facility. In addition to standard financing covenants and events of default, the DIP Credit Agreement also provides for (i) a periodic delivery by the Company of various financial statements set forth in the DIP Credit Agreement and (ii) specific milestones that the Company must achieve by specific target dates. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are required not to permit consolidated adjusted EBITDA to be less than a specified level for certain periods, and to maintain minimum U.S. Liquidity (as defined in the DIP Credit Agreement). A breach of any of the covenants contained in the DIP Credit Agreement or related orders or our inability to comply with the required financial covenants in this agreement, when applicable, could result in an event of default under the DIP Credit agreement, subject, in certain cases, to applicable grace and cure periods. If any event of default occurs and we are not able either to cure it or obtain a waiver from the requisite lenders under the agreement, the administrative agent of the DIP Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under the agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable, and the agent under the agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, terminate the lenders’ commitments under the DIP Credit Agreement and cease making further loans, and if applicable, the agent could institute foreclosure proceedings against our pledged assets, which could result in the Company being liquidated. The automatic stay that applies to pre-petition obligations under chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code does not apply to these obligations. The lenders may demand more restrictive covenants, operational or business changes and/or economic compensation as conditions to waiving any default or modifying terms prior to default. This could materially and adversely affect our operations, and our ability to emerge from bankruptcy and to satisfy our obligations as they come due. If we consummate the Junior DIP Facility financing, similar risks will apply with respect to our ability to meet the requirements of the Junior DIP Facility. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to meet the requirements to convert certain loans into an exit facility. The Junior DIP Facility provides for the conversion of certain loans thereunder into an exit facility, subject to certain conditions. If the Junior DIP Facility financing is not completed, or if, in such event, we are not able to secure alternative financing, our ability to successfully emerge from bankruptcy could be adversely affected. Conditions to conversion into the exit facility include Bankruptcy Court approval of a plan of reorganization by September 15, 2013, with an effective date no later than September 30, 2013; payment of $200 million of principal amount of New Money Loans; the resolution of all obligations owing in respect of the KPP obligations on terms reasonably satisfactory to a certain majority of the Junior DIP Facility lenders, and an additional prepayment of loans in an amount equal to 75% of U.S. Liquidity (as defined in the agreement) above $200 million. Additionally, our ability to convert a portion of the loans under the Junior DIP Facility at emergence is subject to us receiving a cash purchase price of at least $600 million from the disposition of any combination of certain specified assets that are not part of the Commercial Imaging business, including any combination of the Document Imaging and Personalized Imaging businesses and trademarks, trademark licenses, domain names and related intellectual property assets and materials; provided that the consent of a certain majority of the Junior DIP Facility lenders would be necessary to exclude the assets of the Document Imaging and Personalized Imaging businesses from the disposition. If we fail to satisfy the condition or it is not waived, we will be required to pay in cash all of our loans under the Junior DIP Facility at emergence, which could adversely affect the Debtors’ ability to emerge from chapter 11. Our plan of reorganization and related disclosure statement is not yet available, and the contents of our plan of reorganization are uncertain and highly speculative. We have not distributed a plan of reorganization to creditors or filed a plan of reorganization with the Bankruptcy Court and may not do so for some time. The plan of reorganization will be accompanied by a disclosure statement approved by the Bankruptcy Court and will provide “adequate information” (as used in the Bankruptcy Code) to those stakeholders entitled to vote on the plan of reorganization. All prepetition claims against the Debtors will likely be subject to compromise in our plan of reorganization and the nature and amount of distributions to prepetition creditors is highly speculative at this time. Additionally, it is unlikely that we will propose to make any distribution on account of the stock of the Company in connection with our plan of reorganization. Any investment in our securities prior to review of a Bankruptcy Court-approved disclosure statement is also highly speculative. The contents of our plan of reorganization will depend on many factors beyond the value of our assets, including the amount of claims against those assets, the resolution of intercompany claims, the results of strategic processes that are underway, our business results, our financing activities, and the outcome of negotiations with creditors. The contents of our plan of reorganization are uncertain and may be dramatically different than the current expectations of the Company or any of its stakeholders. The plan of reorganization also may treat prepetition claims of certain customers, suppliers and continuing business partners more favorably than general unsecured creditors. The Company’s future pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs and required level of contributions could be unfavorably impacted by changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance of plan assets and obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities which could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. We have significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The funded status of the Company’s U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, and the related cost reflected in the Company’s financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations, funded status and expense recognition include the discount rate for future payment obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, salary growth, healthcare cost trend rates, and other economic and demographic factors. Significant differences in actual experience, or significant changes in future assumptions or obligations imposed by legislation, pension authorities, or the Bankruptcy Court could lead to a potential future need to contribute cash or assets to the Company’s plans in excess of currently estimated contributions and benefit payments and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The Kodak Limited Pension Plan in the United Kingdom has a significant underfunded position, which Kodak Limited does not have the capacity to fully fund. Any demands made against Kodak Limited in respect of the pension deficiency or other amounts due to this pension plan could result in the insolvent liquidation of Kodak Limited and other non-U.S. subsidiaries. Kodak Limited is the statutory employer with respect to the Kodak Pension Plan in the United Kingdom (the “KPP”), which has an underfunded position of approximately $1.5 billion (calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP) as of December 31, 2012. The Company previously issued a guarantee to Kodak Limited and the trustee of the KPP under which it guaranteed the ability of Kodak Limited to make certain contributions to the KPP. Refer to Note 1, “Bankruptcy Proceedings—Eastman Kodak Company Guarantee” in the Notes to Financial Statements in Item 8 below, for a description of the guarantee. The trustee of the KPP 11 Table of Contents filed a claim in the chapter 11 case against the Company under this guarantee alleging that the pension deficiency is approximately $2.8 billion. The trustee of the KPP could demand that Kodak Limited fund the full pension deficiency at any time. Kodak Limited does not have assets sufficient to fully fund the KPP deficiency if such a demand were made and not fully covered by funding received from the Company under its guarantee. Since Kodak Limited is not a Debtor in the chapter 11 case, Kodak Limited is not protected by the stay of enforcement proceedings applicable to the Debtors and a KPP claim against Kodak Limited will not be subject to involuntary compromise as part of the Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. In addition, Kodak Limited has not made an annual contribution of approximately $50 million due the KPP for 2012 and this amount could be demanded by the KPP at any time. If KPP demands payment of this amount, Kodak Limited does not have available cash to pay it without drawing on intercompany loans to other Company subsidiaries. Kodak Limited is the largest creditor and sole equity owner of Kodak International Finance Limited, a subsidiary that currently functions as a global cash management company and also has received substantial advances from, and made substantial loans to, various non-U.S. subsidiaries whose liquidity is important to the continued operation of the global group as a going concern. The Company is in discussions with the trustee of the KPP with respect to the voluntary settlement of the KPP claims against the Company, including Kodak Limited. If there is no voluntary settlement with the KPP, or if a voluntary settlement does not become effective or proves incomplete or inadequate, the trustee of the KPP will, and the Pension Protection Fund and the Pension Regulator in the United Kingdom may, have claims against Kodak Limited and potentially other Kodak group companies in addition to the claims filed by KPP against the Debtors in the Chapter 11 cases. Prosecution of these claims could lead to the insolvent liquidation of Kodak Limited, its subsidiary Kodak International Finance Limited and other non-U.S. subsidiaries. The insolvent liquidation of non-U.S. subsidiaries would result in the loss of control of those subsidiaries by the Company, may disrupt global cash management, and may delay or prevent the successful restructuring of the global group as a going concern. In addition, in the event a non-Debtor subsidiary of the Company shall become insolvent or enter insolvency proceedings, any outstanding amount under the DIP Credit Agreement and, if applicable, Junior DIP Facility principal and interest could become immediately due and payable. Any settlement with the KPP must be reasonably acceptable to the DIP Facility agent and a certain majority of the Junior DIP Facility lenders, which may make reaching such a settlement more difficult. If we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which the Company’s business depends, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, the Company’s revenue, earnings, expenses and liquidity may be adversely impacted. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with the Company’s employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of the Company’s direct or indirect intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect the Company’s proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of the Company’s business and many of the Company’s products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. We have made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and have filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of the Company’s licensees. There can be no assurance that the Company’s patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect the Company’s intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. In addition, third parties may claim that the Company’s customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit the Company’s access to certain markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like ours. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of the Company’s products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, the Company’s revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Finally, we use open source software in connection with the Company’s products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of 12 Table of Contents the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose the Company’s source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to the Company’s business results of operations and financial condition. The competitive pressures we face could harm the Company’s revenue, gross margins and market share. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive with large, entrenched, and well financed industry participants. In addition, we encounter aggressive price competition for all our products and services from numerous companies globally. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other Industry-wide pricing pressures. If our products, services and pricing are not sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, we could also lose market share, adversely affecting the Company’s revenue and gross margins. If the Company’s commercialization and manufacturing processes fail to prevent product reliability and quality issues, the Company’s product launch plans may be delayed, the Company’s financial results may be adversely impacted, and the Company’s reputation may be harmed. In developing, commercializing and manufacturing the Company’s products and services, we must adequately address reliability and other quality issues, including defects in the Company’s engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in the Company’s products. Because the Company’s products are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complicated to develop and commercialize with rapid advances in technologies, the occurrence of defects may increase, particularly with the introduction of new product lines. Unanticipated issues with product performance may delay product launch plans which could result in additional expenses, lost revenue and earnings. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. Product reliability and quality issues can impair the Company’s relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect the Company’s brand image, and the Company’s reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect the Company’s business as well as the Company’s financial results. Product quality issues can also result in recalls, warranty, or other service obligations and litigation. If we cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop and market new products to respond to changing customer preferences, the Company’s revenue, earnings and cash flow, could be adversely affected. We must develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner to keep pace with technological developments and achieve customer acceptance. If we are unable to anticipate new technology trends and develop improvements the Company’s current technology to address changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect the Company’s revenue, earnings and cash flow. Due to changes in technology and customer preferences, the market for traditional film and paper products and services is in decline. The Company’s success depends in part on the Company’s ability to manage the decline of the market for these traditional products by continuing to reduce the Company’s cost structure to maintain profitability. Even if a chapter 11 plan of reorganization is consummated, continued weakness or worsening of economic conditions could continue to adversely affect the Company’s financial performance and the Company’s liquidity. The global economic environment and declines in consumption in the Company’s end markets have adversely affected sales of our products and profitability. This environment and decline was a factor leading to the Company filing for voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Further, global financial markets have been experiencing volatility. Economic conditions could accelerate the continuing decline in demand for traditional products, which could also place pressure on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. There is no guarantee that anticipated economic growth levels in markets that have experienced some economic recovery will continue in the future, or that the Company will succeed in expanding sales in these markets. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in the Company’s customers’ ability to pay as a result of the economic downturn, and the Company’s liquidity, including the Company’s ability to use credit lines, could be negatively impacted by failures of financial instrument counterparties, including banks and other financial institutions. If the global economic weakness and tightness in the credit markets continue for a greater period of time than anticipated or worsen, the Company’s profitability and related cash generation capability could be adversely affected and, therefore, affect the Company’s ability to meet the Company’s anticipated cash needs, impair the Company’s liquidity or increase the Company’s costs of borrowing. If we cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, the Company’s revenue and earnings could be harmed. In order for us to be successful, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research and engineering professionals, and qualified sales representatives, particularly in the Company’s targeted growth markets, is critical to the Company’s future. If we cannot attract qualified individuals, retain key executives and employees or motivate the Company’s employees, the Company’s business could be harmed. The Company’s filing for chapter 11 may create additional distractions and uncertainty for employees, and impact the Company’s ability to retain key employees and effectively recruit new employees. Furthermore, as is typical in chapter 11 restructurings, there may be changes in the composition of the Company’s Board of Directors and its officers following the Company’s emergence from chapter 11. The Company’s ability to take measures to motivate and retain key employees may be restricted while operating under chapter 11. We may experience increased levels of employee attrition. 13 Table of Contents Due to the nature of the products we sell and the Company’s worldwide distribution, we are subject to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity costs that may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial position. As a result of the Company’s global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in markets in which we do business tend to be volatile and at times, the Company’s sales can be negatively impacted across all of the Company’s segments depending upon the value of the U.S. dollar, the Euro and other major currencies. In addition, the Company’s products contain silver, aluminum, petroleum based or other commodity-based raw materials, the prices of which have been and may continue to be volatile. If the global economic situation remains uncertain or worsens, there could be further volatility in changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, which could have negative effects on the Company’s revenue and earnings. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to Kodak’s customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial position. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to facilitate financing to our customers in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may cover all or a portion of the purchase price for the Company’s products and services. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources. The Company’s success may be dependent, in part, upon the Company’s ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on the Company’s customers’ creditworthiness. The tightening of credit in the global financial markets can adversely affect the ability of the Company’s customers to obtain financing for significant purchases, which may result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for the Company’s products and services. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to our customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial position. We have outsourced a significant portion of the Company’s overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics and back office operations and face the risks associated with reliance on third party suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of the Company’s overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics, customer support and administrative operations to third parties. To the extent that we rely on third party service providers, we face the risk that those third parties may not be able to: • develop manufacturing methods appropriate for the Company’s products; • maintain an adequate control environment; • quickly respond to changes in customer demand for the Company’s products; • obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process; or • mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or disruptions. Further, even if the Company honors its payment and other obligations to the Company’s key suppliers of products, components and services, such suppliers may choose to unilaterally withhold products, components or services, or demand changes in payment terms. As a result of such risks, we may be unable to meet the Company’s customer commitments, the Company’s costs could be higher than planned, and the Company’s cash flows and the reliability of the Company’s products could be negatively impacted. The Company will vigorously enforce its contractual rights under such circumstances, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in preventing or mitigating the effects of unilateral actions by the Company’s suppliers. Other supplier problems that we could face include electronic component shortages, excess supply, risks related to favorable terms, the duration of the Company’s contracts with suppliers for components and materials and risks related to dependency on single 14 Table of Contents source suppliers on favorable terms or at all. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming alternative third party relationships could not be established, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in the Company’s inability to meet customer demand for the Company’s products, damage to the Company’s relationships with the Company’s customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks, terrorism, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, political or economic instability, and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. In addition, some areas, including parts of the east and west coasts of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. The impact of these risks is greater in areas where products are manufactured at a sole or limited number of location(s), and where the sourcing of materials is limited to a sole or limited base of suppliers since any material interruption in operations in such locations or suppliers could impact our ability to provide a particular product or service for a period of time. These events could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, and increase our costs and expenses. The Company’s sales are typically concentrated in the last four months of the fiscal year, therefore, lower than expected demand or increases in costs during that period may have a pronounced negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. We have typically experienced greater net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter as compared with the other three quarters. Developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems failure, increases in materials costs, or failure of or performance problems with one of the Company’s key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results, particularly if such developments occur late in the third quarter or during the fourth fiscal quarter. Equipment and consumable sales in the commercial marketplace peak in the fourth quarter based on increased commercial print demand. Tight credit markets that limit capital investments or a weak economy that decreases print demand could negatively impact equipment or consumable sales. These external developments are often unpredictable and may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. If we fail to manage distribution of the Company’s products and services properly, the Company’s revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell and deliver the Company’s products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels to various potential customer segments for the Company’s products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, the Company’s failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for the Company’s products and services could adversely affect the Company’s revenue, gross margins and earnings. This has concentrated the Company’s credit and operational risk and could result in an adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of the Company’s goodwill and/or other long-lived assets, which would increase expenses and reduce profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. We test goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Additionally, the Company’s other long-lived assets are evaluated for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Either of these situations may occur for various reasons including changes in actual or expected income or cash flows. We continue to evaluate current conditions to assess whether any impairment exists. Impairments could occur in the future if market or interest rate environments deteriorate, expected future cash flows of the Company’s reporting units decline, or if reporting unit carrying values change materially compared with changes in respective fair values. On February 1, 2013, the Company sold its digital imaging patents. The cash flows related to the Intellectual Property goodwill reporting unit from patent licensing activity will significantly change and the fair value of the reporting unit may be materially impacted as a result of the sale. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s future results could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in the Company’s efforts to expand sales in emerging markets. Because we are seeking to expand the Company’s sales and number of customer relationships outside the United States, and specifically in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, the Company’s business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: • supporting multiple languages; • recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and supply products; • complying with governmental regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for the Company’s products; • complexity of managing international operations; • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • commercial laws and business practices that may favor local competition; • multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, anti-corruption, labor, and employment laws; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • limitations or restrictions on the repatriation of cash; • reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; • managing research and development teams in geographically disparate locations, including Canada, Israel, Japan, China, and Singapore; • complicated logistics and distribution arrangements; and • political or economic instability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in all of the Company’s targeted markets. If the Company’s efforts are not successful, the Company’s business growth and results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and failure to comply with such laws and regulations or liabilities imposed as a result of such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct the Company’s business, including laws regarding the discharge of pollutants, including greenhouse gases, into the air and water, the need for environmental permits for certain operations, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of the Company’s products and the recycling and treatment and disposal of the Company’s products. If we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the use and management of hazardous substances, then we could be subject to liability and/or could be prohibited from operating certain facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The cost of complying with such laws, and costs associated with the cleanup of contaminated sites, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. New regulations related to “conflict minerals” will require the Company to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing the Company’s products. In August 2012, the SEC adopted rules requiring disclosure related to sourcing of specified minerals, known as “conflict minerals”, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rules, effective in 2013, require a report to be filed by May 31, 2014, and if applicable, require companies to undertake due diligence, disclose whether or not such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. As a result, additional expenses will be incurred in complying and performing due diligence in complying with the new rules. In addition, the implementation of the new rules could adversely affect the Company’s sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company’s products. There may only be a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, and the Company cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain necessary “conflict free” conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Because the Company’s supply chain is complex, the Company may also not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in the Company’s products through the due diligence procedures that the Company implements, which may harm the Company’s reputation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 