ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Recent economic trends could continue to adversely affect our financial performance. The global economic recession and declines in consumption in the Company’s end markets have adversely affected sales of both commercial and consumer products and profitability for such products. Further, the global financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months. Slower sales of consumer digital products due to the deteriorating economic environment could lead to reduced sales and earnings while increasing inventory. Economic conditions could also accelerate the continuing decline in demand for traditional products, which could also place pressure on Kodak’s results of operations and liquidity. The recent tightening of credit in the global financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our commercial customers to obtain financing for significant equipment purchases, which could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products and services. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in our customers’ ability to pay as a result of the recent economic downturn. In response to these circumstances, the Company may have to take other actions to conserve or generate cash, which may impact our ability to return cash to shareholders. Our future pension and other postretirement plan costs and required level of contributions could be unfavorably impacted by changes in actuarial assumptions and future market performance of plan assets which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. We have significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The funded status of the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations, funded status and expense recognition include the discount rate for future payment obligations, the long-term expected rate of return on plan assets, salary growth, healthcare cost trend rate, and other economic and demographic factors. Significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in future assumptions could lead to a potential future need to contribute cash or assets to our plans in excess of currently estimated contributions and benefit payments and could have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. If we are unsuccessful with the strategic investment decisions we have made, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company has selected certain of its businesses as “core investments” because of their large, sustainable growth potential. Introduction of successful innovative products and the achievement of scale in those businesses are necessary for the Company to achieve its future financial success. In addition, the Company has identified certain of its businesses that require business model transformations to improve margins or maximize cash. Such business model changes could include repositioning through strategic partnerships. If the Company is unsuccessful in growing the core investment businesses as planned or in executing the transformations that are necessary in certain of its businesses, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. If we fail to comply with the financial covenants contained in our Secured Credit Agreement, our ability to meet our financial obligations or access external financing could be impaired under certain circumstances. There are affirmative, negative and financial covenants contained in the Company’s Secured Credit Agreement. These covenants are typical for a secured credit agreement of this nature. The Company’s failure to comply with the financial covenants would result in a default under the Secured Credit Agreement. If an event of default were to occur and not be waived by the lenders, then all outstanding debt, interest and other payments under the Secured Credit Agreement could become immediately due and payable, any unused borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility of the Secured Credit Agreement could be terminated by the lenders, and cash collateralization or a similar remedy could be required for all letters of credit. The failure of the Company to repay any accelerated debt for borrowed money under the Secured Credit Agreement could result in acceleration of the majority of the Company’s unsecured outstanding debt obligations under certain circumstances. The Company was in full compliance with the financial covenants as of December 31, 2008. Based on the Company’s current financial forecast, it is reasonably likely that the Company could breach its financial 11 covenants in the first quarter of 2009 unless an appropriate amendment or waiver is obtained. The Company is currently negotiating with its lenders to ensure continued access to a Secured Credit Agreement, with the goal to have an amended credit facility in place by the end of the first quarter. At December 31, 2008, there was no debt outstanding and there were $131 million of letters of credit issued, which are not considered debt for borrowed money under the agreement, but do reduce the Company’s borrowing capacity under the Secured Credit Agreement. Notwithstanding the Company’s view that it can operate for the foreseeable future without additional external financing, the Company’s liquidity could be impaired if it is not able to access a credit facility. If we cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop new products to respond to changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect our revenues. Due to changes in technology and customer preferences, the market for traditional photography products and services is in decline. In its Film, Photofinishing and Entertainment Group, the Company continues to experience declines in customer demand for film products, consistent with industry trends. Management has developed initiatives to address the anticipated impact of these trends on the Company’s performance. In addition, the Company’s product development efforts are focused on digital capture devices (digital cameras and scanners) designed to improve the image acquisition or digitalization process, software products designed to enhance and simplify the digital workflow, output devices (thermal and inkjet printers and commercial printing systems and solutions) and consumables designed to produce high quality documents and images, and media (thermal and silver halide) optimized for digital workflows. Kodak’s success depends in part on its ability to develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner that keep pace with technological developments and that are accepted in the market. The Company continues to introduce new consumer and commercial digital product offerings. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in anticipating and developing new products, product enhancements or new solutions and services to adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements. In addition, if the Company is unable to anticipate and develop improvements to its current technology, to adapt its products to changing customer preferences or requirements or to continue to produce high quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to compete with products offered by its competitors, this could adversely affect the revenues of the Company. If we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights our revenue, earnings and expenses may be adversely impacted. Kodak relies upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce its intellectual property rights. Any of the Company’s direct or indirect intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit the Company to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, Kodak may be unable to protect its proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. Kodak has made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and has filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect its intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of the Company’s licensees. The execution and enforcement of licensing agreements protects the Company's intellectual property rights and provides a revenue stream in the form of royalties that enables Kodak to further innovate and provide the marketplace with new products and services. There is no assurance that such measures alone will be adequate to protect the Company's intellectual property. The Company’s ability to execute its intellectual property licensing strategies could also affect the Company’s revenue and earnings. Kodak’s failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect the Company’s market positions and business opportunities. Furthermore, the Company’s failure to identify and implement licensing programs, including identifying appropriate licensees, could adversely affect the profitability of Kodak's operations. 12 Finally, third parties may claim that the Company or customers indemnified by Kodak are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit Kodak’s access to digital markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like Kodak. Even if Kodak believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require the Company to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting Kodak from marketing or selling certain of its products. Even if the Company has an agreement to indemnify it against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual agreement to Kodak. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. If we cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, our business could be harmed. In order for the Company to be successful, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research professionals, and qualified sales representatives are critical to the Company’s future. Competition for experienced employees in the industries in which we compete can be intense. The market for employees with digital skills is highly competitive and, therefore, the Company’s ability to attract such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and persuading potential employees that the Company is well-positioned for success in the digital markets Kodak is entering. Given the Company’s compensation plans are highly performance-based and given the impact of the global economy on the Company’s performance, it may become more challenging to retain key employees. The risk may be mitigated by the fact that many companies recently are taking actions to limit or reduce compensation and benefits in light of the difficult economy. The Company also must keep employees focused on the strategic initiatives and goals in order to be successful. If we cannot attract properly qualified individuals, retain key executives and employees or motivate our employees, our business could be harmed. System integration issues could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Portions of our IT infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time; in particular, installation of SAP within our Graphic Communications Group. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruption could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, higher costs or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results and reputation. Our inability to effectively complete, integrate and manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions could adversely impact our business performance including our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions ("transactions") and enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. 13 Delays in our plans to reduce the cost structure of the Company through execution of restructuring and other actions could affect the consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. If the Company were to fail to successfully execute the plans within or the timing of its current restructuring program to align the cost structure to the current economic realities, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing and back-office operations and face the risks associated with relying on third party manufacturers and external suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing, customer support and administrative operations (such as credit and collections, and general ledger accounting functions) to third parties and various service providers. To the extent that we rely on third party manufacturing relationships, we face the risk that those manufacturers may not be able to (1) develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products, (2) maintain an adequate control environment, (3) quickly respond to changes in customer demand for our products, (4) obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process, or (5) mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or disruptions. As a result of such risks, Kodak’s manufacturing costs could be higher than planned and the reliability of our products could decline. Other supplier problems that Kodak could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to terms of its contracts with suppliers and risks related to dependency on single source suppliers. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming alternative third-party manufacturing relationships could not be established, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in our being unable to meet customer demand for our products, damage to our relationships with our customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margins and market share. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all our products and services from numerous companies globally. Over the past several years, price competition in the market for digital products, film and services has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their profit margins for these products. In the Graphic Communications Group segment, aggressive pricing tactics by our competitors have intensified the contract negotiation process. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. If the Company is unable to obtain pricing or programs sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, Kodak could also lose market share, adversely affecting its revenue and gross margins. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted. The Company uses a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels to various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and earnings. Due to changes in the Company’s go-to-market models, the Company is more reliant on fewer distributors. This has concentrated the Company’s credit risk, which, if not appropriately managed, could result in an adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. We may provide financing and financial guarantees to our customers, some of which may be for significant amounts. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide financing to our customers in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers’ creditworthiness. As noted previously, the recent tightening of credit in the global financial markets could adversely affect 14 the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases, which could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products and services. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to our customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial position. Due to the nature of the products we sell and our worldwide distribution, we are subject to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodities costs that may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Kodak, as a result of its global operating and financing activities, is exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in certain markets in which the Company does business tend to be volatile. In addition, Kodak’s products contain silver, aluminum, petroleum-based or other commodity-based raw materials, the costs of which can be volatile. There can be no guarantees that the global economic situation will not worsen creating further volatility in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, which could have future negative effects on revenue and earnings. If we cannot protect our reputation due to product quality and liability issues, our business could be harmed. Kodak products are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complicated to design and build as rapid advancements in technologies occur. Although Kodak has established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality and liability issues, there can be no assurance that Kodak will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated damages. Kodak may incur expenses in connection with, for example, product recalls, service and lawsuits, and Kodak’s brand image and reputation as a producer of high-quality products could suffer. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. In addition, some areas, including parts of the east and west coasts of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. These events could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, and increase our costs and expenses. The implementation of new legislation or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could increase the Company’s cost to comply and consequently reduce our profitability. New business legislation or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulation, including interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulators, could adversely affect Kodak’s results of operations by increasing the Company’s cost to comply. For example, tax, labor, environmental and securities laws and regulations may be enacted in the future that require the Company to adopt new policies, internal controls and other compliance practices or modify existing production facilities and operations. Each of these compliance initiatives could lead to internal and external cost increases. The Company may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of its goodwill, which would increase expenses and reduce profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. This may occur for various reasons including changes in actual or expected income or cash flows of a reporting unit. In the fourth quarter 2008, we recorded a pre-tax non-cash charge of $785 million to write-off 15 a significant portion of the goodwill balance within the GCG segment. We will continue to evaluate current market conditions that may affect the fair value of our reporting units to assess whether any further goodwill impairment exists in the future. Continued adverse or worsening market conditions for certain businesses may have a significant impact on the fair value of the reporting units and could result in additional future impairments of goodwill. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 