ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s filing of voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code and the Company’s ability to successfully emerge as a stronger, leaner company may be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties. The Company is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties associated with the filing of voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which may lead to potential adverse effects on the Company's liquidity, results of operations, brand or business prospects. We cannot assure you of the outcome of the Company’s chapter 11 proceeding. Risks associated with the chapter 11 filing may impact all entities, including the Non-Filing Entities, and include the following: · the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern; · the Company's ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions in the chapter 11 cases and the outcomes of Bankruptcy Court rulings of the case in general; · the length of time the Company will operate under the chapter 11 cases and its ability to successfully emerge; · the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to develop and consummate one or more plans of reorganization with respect to the chapter 11 cases; · the Company’s ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court and creditor approval of its reorganization plan and the impact of alternative proposals, views and objections of creditor committees and representatives, which may make it difficult to develop and consummate a reorganization plan in a timely manner; · risks associated with third party motions in the chapter 11 cases, which may interfere with the Company's plans of reorganization; · the ability to maintain sufficient liquidity throughout the chapter 11 proceedings; · increased costs related to the bankruptcy filing and other litigation; · the Company's ability to manage contracts that are critical to its operation, to obtain and maintain appropriate terms with customers, suppliers and service providers; · whether the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries continue to operate their businesses in the normal course; · the Company’s ability to fairly resolve legacy liabilities in alignment with the Company’s plan of reorganization; · the outcome of all pre-petition claims against the Company; and the Company’s ability to maintain existing customers, vendor relationships and expand sales to new customers. Continued investment, capital needs, restructuring payments and servicing the Company’s debt require a significant amount of cash and the Company’s ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company’s business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, the Company’s indebtedness, or to fund the Company’s other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. The Company’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, litigation, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control. We cannot assure you that: · the Company’s businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; · the Company’s plans to generate cash proceeds through the sale of non-core assets will be successful; · the Company’s ability to generate cash proceeds through the execution of the Company’s intellectual property licensing strategies, or the potential sale of the Company’s digital imaging patent portfolios will generate sufficient cash proceeds; · we will be able to repatriate or move cash to locations where and when it is needed; 10 · we will realize cost savings, earnings growth and operating improvements resulting from the execution of the Company’s chapter 11 business and restructuring plan; or · future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund the Company’s liquidity needs. If we cannot fund the Company’s liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, and investments and alliances; selling additional assets; restructuring or refinancing the Company’s debt; or seeking additional equity capital. These actions may be restricted as a result of the Company’s chapter 11 filing and the DIP Credit Agreement. Such actions could increase the Company’s debt, negatively impact customer confidence in the Company’s ability to provide products and services, reduce the Company’s ability to raise additional capital, and delay sustained profitability. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet the Company’s scheduled debt service obligations. The Company’s DIP financing agreement requires that we use certain proceeds from asset sales to make payments to secured lenders. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with the Company’s substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service the Company’s debt or generate enough cash flow to fund the Company’s liquidity needs, could intensify. The Company’s plans to raise cash proceeds from the sale of non-core assets and the potential sale of the Company’s digital imaging patent portfolio may not be successful in raising sufficient cash, may be negatively impacted by factors beyond the Company’s control and may harm the perception of us among customers, suppliers and service providers. A number of factors could influence the Company’s ability to successfully raise cash through asset sales and the sale of the Company’s digital imaging patent portfolio, including the approval of the Court and the Unsecured Creditors Committee under chapter 11, the process utilized to sell these assets, the number of potential buyers for these assets, the purchase price such buyers are willing to offer for these assets and their capacity to fund the purchase, the potential impact of an adverse judicial ruling in one of the Company’s litigation matters related to one or more of the patents in the digital imaging portfolio, or the ability of potential buyers to conclude transactions and potential issues in the closing of transactions due to regulatory or governmental review processes. One or more of these factors could negatively affect the timing of planned asset sales and the level of cash proceeds derived from the sales which could adversely impact the Company’s cash generation and liquidity. Further, there is no assurance that these plans will be successful in raising sufficient cash proceeds or that the sale of certain of the Company’s assets, including the digital imaging patent portfolio, will not harm the Company’s customers’, suppliers’ and service providers’ perception of us. If we are unsuccessful with the Company’s strategic investment decisions, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company has focused its investments on businesses in large growth markets that are positioned for technology and business model transformation, specifically, consumer inkjet, commercial inkjet (including the Company’s Prosper line of products based upon the Company’s Stream technology), packaging solutions, and workflow software and services. While we believe each of these businesses has significant growth potential, consumer inkjet, commercial inkjet, and workflow software and services also require additional investment. The introduction of successful innovative products and the achievement of scale are necessary for us to grow these businesses, improve margins and achieve the Company’s financial objectives. If we are unsuccessful in growing the Company’s investment businesses as planned, the Company’s financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company’s failure to implement plans to reduce the Company’s cost structure in anticipation of declining demand for certain products or delays in implementing such plans could negatively affect the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We recognize the need to continually rationalize the Company’s workforce and streamline the Company’s operations to remain competitive in the face of an ever-changing business and economic climate. If we fail to implement cost rationalization plans such as restructuring of manufacturing, supply chain, marketing sales and administrative resources ahead of declining demand for certain of the Company’s products and services, the Company’s operations results, financial position and liquidity could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if restructuring plans are not effectively managed, we may experience lost customer sales, product delays and other unanticipated effects, causing harm to the Company’s business and customer relationships. The business plan associated with the Company’s chapter 11 reorganization is subject to a number of assumptions, projections, and analysis. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may be unsuccessful in executing the Company’s plan, which could adversely impact our financial results and liquidity. Additionally, the Company’s ability to execute restructuring within the entities filing for chapter 11 is subject to the approval by the Unsecured Creditors Committee and Bankruptcy Court. Finally, the timing and implementation of these plans require compliance with numerous laws and regulations, including local labor laws, and the failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages, fines and penalties which could adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to meet the requirements under our Debtor-in-Possession Credit Agreement. In addition to standard financing covenants and events of default, the Debtor-in-Possession Credit Agreement (the “DIP Credit Agreement”) also provides for (i) a periodic delivery by the Company of various financial statements set forth in the DIP Credit Agreement and (ii) specific milestones that the Company must achieve by specific target dates. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are required not to 11 permit consolidated adjusted EBITDA to be less than a specified level for certain periods, and to maintain minimum U.S. Liquidity (as defined in the DIP Credit Agreement). A breach of any of the covenants contained in the DIP Credit Agreement, or our inability to comply with the required financial covenants in the DIP Credit Agreement, when applicable, could result in an event of default under the DIP Credit agreement, subject, in certain cases, to applicable grace and cure periods. If any event of default occurs and we are not able either to cure it or obtain a waiver from the requisite lenders under the DIP Credit Agreement, the administrative agent of the DIP Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under the DIP Credit Agreement, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable, and the agent under the DIP Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, terminate the lenders’ commitments under the DIP Credit Agreement and cease making further loans, and if applicable, the agent could institute foreclosure proceedings against our pledged assets. This could adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations as they come due. The Company’s future pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs and required level of contributions could be unfavorably impacted by changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance of plan assets and obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities which could adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. We have significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The funded status of the Company’s U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, and the related cost reflected in the Company’s financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations, funded status and expense recognition include the discount rate for future payment obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, salary growth, healthcare cost trend rates, and other economic and demographic factors. Significant differences in actual experience, or significant changes in future assumptions or obligations imposed by legislation, pension authorities, or the Bankruptcy Court could lead to a potential future need to contribute cash or assets to the Company’s plans in excess of currently estimated contributions and benefit payments and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. If we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which the Company’s business depends, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, the Company’s revenue, earnings, expenses and liquidity may be adversely impacted. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with the Company’s employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of the Company’s direct or indirect intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect the Company’s proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect the Company’s competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of the Company’s business and many of the Company’s products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. The execution and enforcement of licensing agreements protects the Company’s intellectual property rights and provides a revenue stream in the form of up-front payments and royalties that enables us to further innovate and provide the marketplace with new products and services. The Company’s ability to execute the Company’s intellectual property licensing strategies, including litigation strategies, such as the Company’s legal actions against Apple Inc. and Research in Motion Limited, could affect the Company’s revenue, earnings and liquidity. Additionally, the uncertainty around the timing, outcome and magnitude of the Company’s intellectual property-related litigation (including the Company’s legal action against Apple Inc. and Research in Motion Limited before the International Trade Commission), judgments and settlements could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, earnings, and liquidity. A potential sale of the Company’s digital imaging patent portfolios could also result in a reduction or the cessation of license revenue related to these patents. The Company’s failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect the Company’s market positions and business opportunities. We have made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and have filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of the Company’s licensees. There can be no assurance that the Company’s patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect the Company’s intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. 12 In addition, third parties may claim that the Company’s customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit the Company’s access to digital markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like ours. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of the Company’s products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source the Company’s revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Finally, we use open source software in connection with the Company’s products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose the Company’s source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to the Company’s business results of operations and financial condition. The competitive pressures we face could harm the Company’s revenue, gross margins and market share. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive with large, entrenched, and well financed industry participants. In certain markets where Kodak is a relatively new entrant, we have not achieved the scale of distribution of the Company’s competitors. In addition, we encounter aggressive price competition for all the Company’s products and services from numerous companies globally. Over the past several years, price competition in the market for digital products, film products and services has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their profit margins for these products. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other Industry-wide pricing pressures. If the Company’s products, services and pricing are not sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, we could also lose market share, adversely affecting the Company’s revenue and gross margins. If the Company’s commercialization and manufacturing processes fail to prevent product reliability and quality issues, the Company’s product launch plans may be delayed, the Company’s financial results may be adversely impacted, and the Company’s reputation may be harmed. In developing, commercializing and manufacturing the Company’s products and services, we must adequately address reliability and other quality issues, including defects in the Company’s engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in the Company’s products. Because the Company’s products are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complicated to develop and commercialize with rapid advances in technologies, the occurrence of defects may increase, particularly with the introduction of new product lines. Unanticipated issues with product performance may delay product launch plans which could result in additional expenses, lost revenue and earnings. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. Product reliability and quality issues can impair the Company’s relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect the Company’s brand image, and the Company’s reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect the Company’s business as well as the Company’s financial results. Product quality issues can also result in recalls, warranty, or other service obligations and litigation. 13 If we cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop and market new products to respond to changing customer preferences, the Company’s revenue, earnings and cash flow, could be adversely affected. We must develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner to keep pace with technological developments and achieve customer acceptance. If we are unable to anticipate new technology trends, for example in consumer electronics, print advertising, and commercial and consumer printing, and develop improvements to the Company’s current technology to address changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect the Company’s revenue, earnings and cash flow. Due to changes in technology and customer preferences, the market for traditional film and paper products and services is in decline. The Company’s success depends in part on the Company’s ability to manage the decline of the market for these traditional products by continuing to reduce the Company’s cost structure to maintain profitability. Even if a chapter 11 plan of reorganization is consummated, continued weakness or worsening of economic conditions could continue to adversely affect the Company’s financial performance and the Company’s liquidity. The global economic recession and declines in consumption in the Company’s end markets have adversely affected sales of both commercial and consumer products and profitability for such products and was a factor leading to the Company filing for voluntary petitions for relief under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Further, global financial markets have been experiencing volatility. Consumer discretionary spending may not return to pre-recession levels in certain geographies. Continued slower sales of consumer digital products due to the uncertain economic environment could lead to reduced sales and earnings while inventory increases. Economic conditions could also accelerate the continuing decline in demand for traditional products, which could also place pressure on the Company’s results of operations and liquidity. While the Company is seeking to increase sales in markets that have already experienced an economic recovery such as Asia, there is no guarantee that anticipated economic growth levels in those markets will continue in the future, or that the Company will succeed in expanding sales in these markets. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in the Company’s customers’ ability to pay as a result of the economic downturn, and the Company’s liquidity, including the Company’s ability to use credit lines, could be negatively impacted by failures of financial instrument counterparties, including banks and other financial institutions. If the global economic weakness and tightness in the credit markets continue for a greater period of time than anticipated or worsen, the Company’s profitability and related cash generation capability could be adversely affected and, therefore, affect the Company’s ability to meet the Company’s anticipated cash needs, impair the Company’s liquidity or increase the Company’s costs of borrowing. If we cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, the Company’s revenue and earnings could be harmed. In order for us to be successful, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research and engineering professionals, and qualified sales representatives, particularly in the Company’s targeted growth markets, is critical to the Company’s future. If we cannot attract qualified individuals, retain key executives and employees or motivate the Company’s employees, the Company’s business could be harmed. The Company’s filing for chapter 11 may create additional distractions and uncertainty for employees, and impact the Company’s ability to retain key employees and effectively recruit new employees. The Company’s ability to take measures to motivate and retain key employees may be restricted while operating under chapter 11. We may experience increased levels of employee attrition. Due to the nature of the products we sell and the Company’s worldwide distribution, we are subject to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity costs that may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial position. As a result of the Company’s global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in markets in which we do business tend to be volatile and at times, the Company’s sales can be negatively impacted across all of the Company’s segments depending upon the value of the U.S. dollar, the Euro and other major currencies. In addition, the Company’s products contain silver, aluminum, petroleum based or other commodity-based raw materials, the prices of which have been and may continue to be volatile. If the global economic situation remains uncertain or worsens, there could be further volatility in changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, which could have negative effects on the Company’s revenue and earnings. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to the Company’s customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial position. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide financing to the Company’s customers in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for the Company’s products and services. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may provide financial guarantees on behalf of the Company’s customers. The Company’s success may be dependent, in part, upon the Company’s ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on the Company’s customers’ creditworthiness. The tightening of credit in the global financial markets has adversely affected the ability of the Company’s customers to obtain financing for significant purchases, which resulted in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for the Company’s products and services, and we can provide no assurance that this trend will not continue. If we are unable 14 to provide competitive financing arrangements to the Company’s customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact the Company’s revenues, profitability and financial position. We have outsourced a significant portion of the Company’s overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics and back office operations and face the risks associated with reliance on third party suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of the Company’s overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics, customer support and administrative operations to third parties. To the extent that we rely on third party service providers, we face the risk that those third parties may not be able to: · develop manufacturing methods appropriate for the Company’s products; · maintain an adequate control environment; · quickly respond to changes in customer demand for the Company’s products; · obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process; or · mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or disruptions. Further, even if the Company honors its payment and other obligations to the Company’s key suppliers of products, components and services, such suppliers may choose to unilaterally withhold products, components or services, or demand changes in payment terms. As a result of such risks, we may be unable to meet the Company’s customer commitments, the Company’s costs could be higher than planned, and the Company’s cash flows and the reliability of the Company’s products could be negatively impacted. The Company will vigorously enforce its contractual rights under such circumstances, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in preventing or mitigating the effects of unilateral actions by the Company’s suppliers. Other supplier problems that we could face include electronic component shortages, excess supply, risks related to favorable terms, the duration of the Company’s contracts with suppliers for components and materials and risks related to dependency on single source suppliers on favorable terms or at all. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming alternative third party relationships could not be established, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in the Company’s inability to meet customer demand for the Company’s products, damage to the Company’s relationships with the Company’s customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s sales are typically concentrated in the last four months of the fiscal year, therefore, lower than expected demand or increases in costs during that period may have a pronounced negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. The demand for the Company’s consumer products is largely discretionary in nature, and sales and earnings of the Company’s consumer businesses are linked to the timing of holidays, vacations, and other leisure or gifting seasons. Accordingly, we have typically experienced greater net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter as compared with the other three quarters. Developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems failure, increases in materials costs, or failure of or performance problems with one of the Company’s key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results, particularly if such developments occur late in the third quarter or during the fourth fiscal quarter. Further, with respect to the Graphic Communications Group segment, equipment and consumable sales in the commercial marketplace peak in the fourth quarter based on increased commercial print demand. Tight credit markets that limit capital investments or a weak economy that decreases print demand could negatively impact equipment or consumable sales. In addition, the Company’s inability to achieve intellectual property licensing revenues in the timeframe and amount we anticipate could adversely affect the Company’s revenues, earnings and cash flow. These external developments are often unpredictable and may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. If we fail to manage distribution of the Company’s products and services properly, the Company’s revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell and deliver the Company’s products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels to various potential customer segments for the Company’s products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, the Company’s failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for the Company’s products and services could adversely affect the Company’s revenue, gross margins and earnings. Due to changes in the Company’s go to market models, we are more reliant on fewer distributors than in past periods. This has concentrated the Company’s credit and operational risk and could result in an adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. 15 We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of the Company’s goodwill and/or other long-lived assets, which would increase expenses and reduce profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. We test goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Additionally, the Company’s other long-lived assets are evaluated for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Either of these situations may occur for various reasons including changes in actual or expected income or cash. We continue to evaluate current conditions to assess whether any impairment exists. Impairments could occur in the future if market or interest rate environments deteriorate, expected future cash flows of the Company’s reporting units decline, silver prices increase significantly, or if reporting unit carrying values change materially compared with changes in respective fair values. In the event of a sale of the Company’s digital imaging patent portfolios, licensing revenue related to those portfolios could decline significantly and materially impact the fair value of the CDG segment. The Company’s future results could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in the Company’s efforts to expand sales in emerging markets. Because we are seeking to expand the Company’s sales and number of customer relationships outside the United States, and specifically in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, the Company’s business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: · supporting multiple languages; · recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and supply products; · complying with governmental regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for the Company’s products; · complexity of managing international operations; · exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · commercial laws and business practices that may favor local competition; · multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, anti-corruption, labor, and employment laws; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · limitations or restrictions on the repatriation of cash; · reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; · managing research and development teams in geographically disparate locations, including Canada, Israel, Japan, China, and Singapore; · complicated logistics and distribution arrangements; and · political or economic instability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell the Company’s products in all of the Company’s targeted markets. If the Company’s efforts are not successful, the Company’s business growth and results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and failure to comply with such laws and regulations or liabilities imposed as a result of such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct the Company’s business, including laws regarding the discharge of pollutants, including greenhouse gases, into the air and water, the need for environmental permits for certain operations, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of the Company’s products and the recycling and treatment and disposal of the Company’s products. If we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the use and management of hazardous substances, then we could be subject to liability and/or could be prohibited from operating certain facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s inability to effectively complete, integrate and manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions could adversely impact the Company’s business performance including the Company’s financial results. As part of the Company’s business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures, asset sales, and outsourcing transactions and enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further the Company’s business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees and the assessment of such acquired companies’ internal controls. Integration and other risks of transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further the Company’s strategic objectives, we may 16 be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenue, gross margins and profitability. In addition, unpredictability surrounding the timing of such transactions could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 