ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margins and market share. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive with large, entrenched, and well financed industry participants. In certain markets where Kodak is a relatively new entrant, we have not achieved the scale of distribution that our competitors have. In addition, we encounter aggressive price competition for all our products and services from numerous companies globally. Over the past several years, price competition in the market for digital products, film products and services has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their profit margins for these products. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry wide pricing pressures. 0; If our products, services and pricing are not sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, we could also lose market share, adversely affecting our revenue and gross margins. 9 If our commercialization and manufacturing processes fail to prevent product reliability and quality issues, our product launch plans may be delayed, our financial results may be adversely impacted, and our reputation may be harmed. In developing, commercializing and manufacturing our products and services, we must adequately address reliability and other quality issues, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Because our products are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complicated to develop and commercialize with rapid advances in technologies, the occurrence of defects may increase, particularly with the introduction of new product lines. Unanticipated issues with product performance may delay product launch plans which could result in additional expenses, lost revenue and earnings. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. Product reliability and quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business as well as our financial results. Product quality issues can also result in recalls, warranty, or other service obligations and litigation. If we are unsuccessful with our strategic investment decisions, our financial performance could be adversely affected. We have made a decision to focus our investments on businesses in large growth markets that are positioned for technology and business model transformation, specifically, consumer inkjet, commercial inkjet (including our Prosper line of products based upon the Company’s Stream technology), packaging solutions, and workflow software and services. We believe each of these businesses has significant growth potential. The introduction of successful innovative products and the achievement of scale are necessary for us to grow these businesses, improve margins and achieve our financial objectives. If we are unsuccessful in growing our investment businesses as planned, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If we cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop and market new products to respond to changing customer preferences, our revenue, earnings and cash flow, could be adversely affected. We must develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner to keep pace with technological developments and achieve customer acceptance. If we are unable to anticipate new technology trends, for example in consumer electronics, and develop improvements to our current technology to address changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect our revenue, earnings and cash flow. Due to changes in technology and customer preferences, the market for traditional film and paper products and services is in decline. Our success depends in part on our ability to manage the decline of the market for these traditional products by continuing to reduce our cost structure to maintain profitability. Continued weakness or worsening of economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our financial performance and our liquidity. The global economic recession and declines in consumption in our end markets have adversely affected sales of both commercial and consumer products and profitability for such products. Further, global financial markets have been experiencing volatility. Consumer discretionary spending may not return to pre-recession levels in certain geographies. Continued slower sales of consumer digital products due to the uncertain economic environment could lead to reduced sales and earnings while inventory increases. Economic conditions could also accelerate the continuing decline in demand for traditional products, which could also place pressure on our results of operations and liquidity. While the company is seeking to increase sales in markets that have already experienced an economic recovery such as Asia, there is no guarantee that anticipated economic growth levels in those markets will continue in the future, or that the company will succeed in expanding sales in these markets. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in our customers’ ability to pay as a result of the economic downturn, and our liquidity, including our ability to use credit lines, could be negatively impacted by failures of financial instrument counterparties, including banks and other financial institutions. If the global economic weakness and tightness in the credit markets continue for a greater period of time than anticipated or worsen, our profitability and related cash generation capability could be adversely affected and, therefore, affect our ability to meet our anticipated cash needs, impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. 10 If we cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, our revenue and earnings could be harmed. In order for us to be successful, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research and engineering professionals, and qualified sales representatives, particularly in our targeted growth markets, is critical to our future. The market for experienced employees with digital skills is highly competitive and, therefore, our ability to attract such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and persuading potential employees that we are well positioned for success in the digital markets in which we are operating. Given that our compensa tion plans are highly performance based and given the potential impact of the global economy on our current and future performance, it may become more challenging to retain key employees. We also must keep employees focused on our strategic initiatives and goals in order to be successful. Our past restructuring actions harm our efforts to attract and retain key employees. If we cannot attract properly qualified individuals, retain key executives and employees or motivate our employees, our business could be harmed. Our future pension and other postretirement plan costs and required level of contributions could be unfavorably impacted by changes in actuarial assumptions, future market performance of plan assets and obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. We have significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The funded status of our U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans, and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, particularly in the current economic environment. Key assumptions used to value these benefit obligations, funded status and expense recognition include the discount rate for future payment obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, salary growth, healthcare cost trend rates, and other economic and demographic factors. Significant differences in actual experience, or significant chan ges in future assumptions or obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities could lead to a potential future need to contribute cash or assets to our plans in excess of currently estimated contributions and benefit payments and could have an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. If we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, our revenue, earnings, expenses and liquidity may be adversely impacted. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights. Despite these measures, any of our direct or indirect intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. We have made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and have filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect our intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of our licensees. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect our intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. The execution and enforcement of licensing agreements protects our intellectual property rights and provides a revenue stream in the form of up-front payments and royalties that enables us to further innovate and provide the marketplace with new products and services. Our ability to execute our intellectual property licensing strategies, including litigation strategies, such as our legal actions against Apple Inc. and Research in Motion Limited, could also affect our revenue and earnings. Additionally, the uncertainty around the timing, outcome and 11 magnitude of our intellectual property-related litigation (including our legal action against Apple Inc. and Research in Motion Limited before the International Trade Commission), judgments and settlements could have an adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity. Our failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect our market positions and business opportunities. Furthermore, our failure to identify and implement licensing programs, including identifying appropriate licensees, could adversely affect the profitability of our operations. In addition, third parties may claim that we, our customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit our access to digital markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like ours. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Finally, we use open source software in connection with our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncomplian ce with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose our source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business results of operations and financial condition. Due to the nature of the products we sell and our worldwide distribution, we are subject to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity costs that may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in markets in which we do business tend to be volatile and at times, our sales can be negatively impacted across all of our segments depending upon the value of the U.S. dollar, the Euro and other major currencies. In addition, our products contain silver, aluminum, petroleum based or other commodity-based raw materials, the prices of which have been and may continue to be volatile. If the global economic situation remains uncertain or worsens, there could be further volatility in changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, which could have negative effects on our revenue and earnings. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to our customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial position. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide financing to our customers in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers’ creditworthiness. The tightening of credit in the global financial markets has adversely affected the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases, which resulted in a decrease in, or cancellation of , orders for our products and services, and we can provide no assurance that this trend will not continue. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to our customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, this could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial position. 12 Our sales are typically concentrated in the last four months of the fiscal year, therefore, lower than expected demand or increases in costs during that period may have a pronounced negative effect on our results of operations. The demand for our consumer products is largely discretionary in nature, and sales and earnings of our consumer businesses are linked to the timing of holidays, vacations, and other leisure or gifting seasons. Accordingly, we have typically experienced greater net sales in the fourth fiscal quarter as compared to the other three quarters. Developments, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for our products, an internal systems failure, increases in materials costs, or failure of or performance problems with one of our key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results, particularly if such developments occur late in the third quarter or during the fourth fiscal quart er. Further, with respect to the Graphic Communications Group segment, equipment and consumable sales in the commercial marketplace peak in the fourth quarter based on increased commercial print demand. Tight credit markets that limit capital investments or a weak economy that decreases print demand could negatively impact equipment or consumable sales. In addition, our inability to achieve intellectual property licensing revenues in the timeframe and amount we anticipate could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flow. These external developments are often unpredictable and may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell and deliver our products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels to various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and earnings. Due to changes in our go to market models, we are more reliant on fewer distributors than in past periods. This has concentrat ed our credit and operational risk and could result in an adverse impact on our financial performance. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics and back office operations and face the risks associated with reliance on third party suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics, customer support and administrative operations to third parties. To the extent that we rely on third party service providers, we face the risk that those third parties may not be able to: · develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products; · maintain an adequate control environment; · quickly respond to changes in customer demand for our products; · obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process; or · mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or disruptions. As a result of such risks, our costs could be higher than planned and the reliability of our products could be negatively impacted. Other supplier problems that we could face include electronic component shortages, excess supply, risks related to duration of our contracts with suppliers for components and materials and risks related to dependency on single source suppliers on favorable terms or at all. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming alternative third party relationships could not be established, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in our inability to meet customer demand for our products, damage to our relationships with our customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of our goodwill and/or other long-lived assets, which would increase expenses and reduce profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. We test goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Additionally, our other long-lived assets are evaluated for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Either of these situations may occur for 13 various reasons including changes in actual or expected income or cash. We continue to evaluate current conditions to assess whether any impairment exists. Impairments could occur in the future if market or interest rate environments deteriorate, expected future cash flows of our reporting units decline, silver prices increase significantly, or if reporting unit carrying values change materially compared with changes in respective fair values. Our failure to implement plans to reduce our cost structure in anticipation of declining demand for certain products or delays in implementing such plans could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We recognize the need to continually rationalize our workforce and streamline our operations to remain competitive in the face of an ever-changing business and economic climate. If we fail to implement cost rationalization plans such as restructuring of manufacturing, supply chain, marketing sales and administrative resources ahead of declining demand for certain of our products and services, our operations results, financial position and liquidity could be negatively impacted. Additionally, if restructuring plans are not effectively managed, we may experience lost customer sales, product delays and other unanticipated effects, causing harm to our business and customer relationships. Finally, the timing and implementation of these plans require compl iance with numerous laws and regulations, including local labor laws, and the failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages, fines and penalties which could adversely affect our business. Our future results could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to expand sales in emerging markets. Because we are seeking to expand our sales and number of customer relationships outside the United States, and specifically in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: · supporting multiple languages; · recruiting sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and support our products; · complying with governmental regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for our products; · complexity of managing international operations; · exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; · commercial laws and business practices that may favor local competition; · multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, anti-corruption, labor, and employment laws; · difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · limitations or restrictions on the repatriation of cash; · reduced or limited protection of intellectual property rights; · managing research and development teams in geographically disparate locations, including Canada, Israel, Japan, China, and Singapore; · complicated logistics and distribution arrangements; and · political or economic instability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in all of our targeted international markets. If our international efforts are not successful, our business growth and results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and failure to comply with such laws and regulations or liabilities imposed as a result of such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, including laws regarding the discharge of pollutants, including greenhouse gases, into the air and water, the need for environmental permits for certain operations, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling and treatment and disposal of our products. If we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the use and management of hazardous substances, then we could be subject to liability and/or could be prohibited from operating certain facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Our inability to effectively complete, integrate and manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions could adversely impact our business performance including our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions and enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees and the assessment of such acquired companies’ internal controls. Integration and other risks of transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple tr ansactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have an adverse effect on our revenue, gross margins and profitability. In addition, unpredictability surrounding the timing of such transactions could adversely affect our financial results. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our debt obligations and may place us at a competitive disadvantage in our industry. Our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. A breach of any of the covenants contained in our Credit Agreement or our other financing arrangements, or our inability to comply with the required financial ratio in our Credit Agreement, when applicable, could result in an event of default under the Credit Agreement or our other financing arrangements, subject to applicable grace and cure periods. If any event of default occurs and we are not able either to cure it or obtain a waiver from the requisite lenders under the Credit Agreement and noteholders under our other financing arrangements, the administrative agent of t he Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, and the trustee or the requisite noteholders under our other financing arrangements may, and at the request of the requisite noteholders shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under the Credit Agreement and our other financing arrangements, respectively, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable, and the agent under the Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, terminate the lenders' commitments under the Credit Agreement and cease making further loans, and if applicable, the agent and/or trustee could institute foreclosure proceedings against our pledged assets. Continued investment, capital needs, restructuring payments and servicing our debt require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, litigation, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that: · our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; · our plans to generate cash proceeds through the sale of non-core assets will be successful; · we will be able to repatriate or move cash to locations where and when it is needed; · we will realize cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements resulting from the execution of our long-term strategic plan; or · future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. If we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as raising additional capital; reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, and investments and alliances; selling assets; restructuring or refinancing our debt; or seeking additional equity capital. Such actions could further negatively impact our ability to generate cash flows. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Certain of our debt instruments limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition of assets and, as a result, we may not be allowed, under those instruments, to use the proceeds from such dispositions to sati sfy all current debt service obligations. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. 15 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 