ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If we do not effectively execute on our growth initiatives, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company participates in digital product markets dominated by a few, large competitors with broad, well-established distribution channels and supplier arrangements. Achievement of scale, in those markets where Kodak has nascent, but growing, businesses, is necessary for the Company to successfully compete in these markets. The Company’s failure to obtain sustainable growth in these businesses could adversely affect the Company’s financial performance. If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our Secured Credit Agreement, including the two financial covenants, our ability to meet our financial obligations could be severely impaired. There are affirmative, negative and financial covenants contained in the Company’s Secured Credit Agreement. These covenants are typical for a secured credit agreement of this nature. The Company’s failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Secured Credit Agreement. If an event of default was to occur and is not waived by the lenders, then all outstanding debt, letters of credit, interest and other payments under the Secured Credit Agreement could become immediately due and payable and any unused borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility of the Secured Credit Agreement could be terminated by the lenders. The failure of the Company to repay any accelerated debt under the Secured Credit Agreement could result in acceleration of the majority of the Company’s unsecured outstanding debt obligations. If we cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop new products to respond to changing customer preferences, this could adversely affect our revenues. Due to changes in technology and customer preferences, the market for traditional photography products and services is in decline. In its Film Products Group, the Company continues to experience declines in customer demand for film products, consistent with industry trends. Management has developed initiatives to address the anticipated impact of these trends on the Company’s performance. In addition, the Company’s product development efforts are focused on digital capture devices (digital cameras and scanners) designed to improve the image acquisition or digitalization process, software products designed to enhance and simplify the digital workflow, output devices (thermal and inkjet printers and commercial printing systems and solutions) designed to produce high quality documents and images, and media (thermal and silver halide) optimized for digital workflows. Kodak’s success depends in part on its ability to develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner that keep pace with technological developments and that are accepted in the market. The Company continues to introduce new consumer and commercial digital product offerings. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in anticipating and developing new products, product enhancements or new solutions and services to adequately address changing technologies and customer requirements. In addition, if the Company is unable to anticipate and develop improvements to its current technology, to adapt its products to changing customer preferences or requirements or to continue to produce high quality products in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to compete with products offered by its competitors, this could adversely affect the revenues of the Company. PAGE 11 If we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights our revenue, earnings and expenses may be adversely impacted. Kodak relies upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish, maintain and enforce its intellectual property rights. Any of the Company’s direct or indirect intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit the Company to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, Kodak may be unable to protect its proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying or use, which could adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. Kodak has made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and has filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect its intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of the Company’s licensees. The execution and enforcement of licensing agreements protects the Company's intellectual property rights and provides a revenue stream in the form of royalties that enables Kodak to further innovate and provide the marketplace with new products and services. There is no assurance that such measures alone will be adequate to protect the Company's intellectual property. The Company’s ability to execute its intellectual property licensing strategies could also affect the Company’s revenue and earnings. Kodak’s failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could adversely affect the Company’s market positions and business opportunities. Furthermore, the Company’s failure to identify and implement licensing programs, including identifying appropriate licensees, could adversely affect the profitability of Kodak’s operations. Finally, third parties may claim that the Company or customers indemnified by Kodak are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit Kodak’s access to digital markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like Kodak. Even if Kodak believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and distract management’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require the Company to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting Kodak from marketing or selling certain of its products. Even if the Company has an agreement to indemnify it against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual agreement to Kodak. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. If we cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, our business could be harmed. In order for the Company to be successful, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research professionals, and qualified sales representatives are critical to the Company’s future and competition for experienced employees in the industries in which we compete can be intense. The market for employees with digital skills is highly competitive and therefore the Company’s ability to attract such talent will depend on a number of factors, including compensation and benefits, work location and persuading potential employees that the Company is well-positioned for success in the new digital markets Kodak has and will enter. The Company also must keep employees focused on the strategic initiatives and goals in order to be successful. If we cannot attract properly qualified individuals, retain key executives and employees or motivate our employees, our business could be harmed. PAGE 12 System integration issues could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Portions of our IT infrastructure may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or product errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time; in particular, installation of SAP within our Graphic Communications Group. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. Such disruption could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, higher costs or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results and reputation. Our inability to effectively complete, integrate and manage acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions could adversely impact our business performance including our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, divestitures and outsourcing transactions ("transactions") and enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable candidates for and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired companies or employees. Integration and other risks of transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and profitability. In 2005, Kodak completed two large business acquisitions in its Graphic Communications Group segment in order to strengthen and diversify its portfolio of businesses, while establishing itself as a leader in the graphic communications market. The Company has substantially completed its extensive restructuring of its traditional manufacturing and corporate infrastructure, but will need to continue to rationalize all items of cost to remain competitive. In the event that Kodak fails to effectively manage the continuing decline of its more traditional businesses while simultaneously integrating these acquisitions, it could fail to obtain the expected synergies and favorable impact of these acquisitions. Such a failure could cause Kodak to lose market opportunities and experience a resulting adverse impact on its revenues and earnings. Economic trends in our major markets could adversely affect our financial performance. Economic downturns and declines in consumption in Kodak’s major markets may affect the levels of both commercial and consumer sales and profitability. Purchases of Kodak’s consumer products are to a significant extent discretionary. Accordingly, weakening economic conditions or outlook could result in a decline in the level of consumption and could adversely affect Kodak’s results of operations. If we do not timely implement our planned working capital improvements, this could adversely affect our cash flow. Unanticipated delays in the Company's plans to continue working capital improvements could adversely impact Kodak’s cash flow. Planned inventory reductions could be compromised by slower sales due to the deteriorating economic environment, the competitive environment for digital products, and the continuing decline in demand for traditional products, which could also place pressures on Kodak’s sales and market share. Conversely, accounts receivable goals could be missed due to stronger sales or a decline in our customers’ ability to pay as a result of economic downturn. In addition, if the Company does not make the expected progress to align our accounts payable metrics with our peer groups our cash flow could be negatively impacted. In the event Kodak is unable to successfully manage these issues in a timely manner, they could adversely impact the planned working capital improvement. Delays in our plans to improve manufacturing productivity and control cost of operations could negatively impact our gross margins. Kodak’s failure to successfully manage operational performance factors could delay or curtail planned improvements in manufacturing productivity. Delays in Kodak’s plans to improve manufacturing productivity and control costs of operations, could negatively impact the gross margins of the Company. Furthermore, if Kodak is unable to successfully negotiate competitive raw material costs with its suppliers, or incurs adverse pricing on certain of its commodity-based raw materials, gross margins could be adversely impacted. PAGE 13 We depend on third party suppliers and, therefore, our revenue and gross margins could suffer if we fail to manage supplier relationships properly. Kodak’s operations depend on its ability to anticipate the needs for components, products and services and Kodak’s suppliers’ ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices in time for Kodak to meet its customers’ demand. Given the wide variety of products, services and systems that Kodak offers, the large number of suppliers and contract manufacturers the Company depends upon that are dispersed across the globe, and the long lead times that are required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in planning production and managing inventory levels that could seriously harm Kodak. Other supplier problems that Kodak could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to terms of its contracts with suppliers, and risks related to dependency on single source suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing and back-office operations and face the risks associated with relying on third party manufacturers and external suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing, customer support and administrative operations (such as human resource, credit and collection, and general ledger accounting functions) to third parties and various service providers. To the extent that we rely on third party manufacturing relationships, we face the risk that those manufacturers may not be able to develop manufacturing methods appropriate for our products, they may not be able to maintain an adequate control environment, they may not be able to quickly respond to changes in customer demand for our products, they may not be able to obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process, they may experience labor shortages and/or disruptions, manufacturing costs could be higher than planned and the reliability of our products could decline. If any of these risks were to be realized, and assuming alternative third-party manufacturing relationships could not be established, we could experience interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in our being unable to meet customer demand for our products, damage to our relationships with our customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our ongoing efforts to improve our supply chain efficiency are not achieved, this could adversely affect our revenue and earnings. Kodak’s improvement in supply chain efficiency, if not achieved, could adversely affect its business by preventing shipments of certain products to be made in their desired quantities and in a timely and cost-effective manner. The ongoing efficiencies could be compromised if Kodak expands into new markets with new applications that are not fully understood or if the portfolio broadens beyond that anticipated when the plans were initiated. Any unforeseen changes in manufacturing capacity could also compromise our supply chain efficiencies. The competitive pressures we face could harm our revenue, gross margins and market share. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive, and we encounter aggressive price competition for all our products and services from numerous companies globally. Over the past several years, price competition in the market for digital products (including consumer inkjet printers), film and services has been particularly intense as competitors have aggressively cut prices and lowered their profit margins for these products. In the Graphic Communications Group segment, aggressive pricing tactics by our competitors have intensified the contract negotiation process. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. If the Company is unable to obtain pricing or programs sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, Kodak could also lose market share, adversely affecting its revenue and gross margins. If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted. The Company uses a variety of different distribution methods to sell our products and services, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels to various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and earnings. Due to changes in the Company’s go-to-market models, the Company is more reliant on fewer distributors. This has concentrated the Company’s credit risk, which, if not appropriately managed, could result in an adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance. PAGE 14 We may provide financing and financial guarantees to our customers, some of which may be for significant amounts. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to provide financing to our customers in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may include all or a portion of the purchase price for our products and services. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources and may provide financial guarantees on behalf of our customers. Our success may be dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers’ creditworthiness. If we are unable to provide competitive financing arrangements to our customers or if we extend credit to customers that are not creditworthy, this could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial position. Because we sell our products and services worldwide, we are subject to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates that may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Kodak, as a result of its global operating and financing activities, is exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect its results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in certain markets in which the Company does business tend to be more volatile than those in the United States and Western Europe. There can be no guarantees that the economic situation in developing markets or elsewhere will not worsen, which could result in future effects on revenue and earnings should such events occur. If we cannot protect our reputation due to product quality and liability issues, our business could be harmed. Kodak products are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complicated to design and build as rapid advancements in technologies occur. Although Kodak has established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality and liability issues, there can be no assurance that Kodak will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated damages. Kodak may incur expenses in connection with, for example, product recalls, service and lawsuits, and Kodak’s brand image and reputation as a producer of high-quality products could suffer. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. In addition, some areas, including parts of the east coast of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. These events could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, and increase our costs and expenses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 