ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Continued investment, capital needs, restructuring payments and servicing the Company’s debt require a significant amount of cash and we may not be able to generate cash necessary to finance these activities, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The Company’s business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay the principal of, or interest on the Company’s indebtedness, or to fund Kodak’s other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, restructuring actions and other general corporate requirements. Kodak’s ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, litigation, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that: • the Company’s businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; • the Company will be able to repatriate or move cash to locations where and when it is needed; • the Company will meet all the conditions associated with the Emergence Credit Facilities; • we will realize cost savings, earnings growth and operating improvements resulting from the execution of our business and restructuring plan; or • future sources of funding will be available in amounts sufficient to enable funding of our liquidity needs. If we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, and investments and alliances; selling additional assets; restructuring or refinancing the Company’s debt; or seeking additional equity capital. Such actions could increase the Company’s debt, negatively impact customer confidence in our ability to provide products and services, reduce the Company’s ability to raise additional capital and delay sustained profitability. We cannot assure you that any of these actions could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they would permit us to meet the Company’s scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with the Company’s substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service the Company’s debt, generate cash flow sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, or maintain compliance with the covenants in our various credit facilities, could intensify. If we are unsuccessful with the Company’s strategic investment decisions, our financial performance could be adversely affected. The Company has focused its investments on commercial businesses in large growth markets that are positioned for technology and business model transformation, specifically, commercial inkjet, packaging and functional printing solutions, and enterprise services. Each of these businesses require additional investment and may not be successful strategies when implemented. The introduction of successful innovative products at market competitive prices and the achievement of scale are necessary for us to grow these businesses, improve margins and achieve our financial objectives. The introduction of products requires great precision in forecasting demand and understanding commercial business requirements in a rapidly moving marketplace. Additionally, our strategy is based on a number of factors and assumptions, some of which are not within our control, such as the actions of third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute all elements of our strategy, or that our ability to successfully execute our strategy will be unaffected by external factors. If we are unsuccessful in growing the Company’s investment businesses as planned, or perceiving the needs of the rapidly changing commercial businesses, our financial performance could be adversely affected. If Kodak is not able to successfully implement plans, or experiences implementation delays in cost structure reduction the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position and liquidity could be negatively affected. We recognize and have communicated the need to rationalize Kodak’s workforce and streamline operations to a leaner and more focused organization aligned with the emerged businesses and operations. We have implemented such cost rationalization plans including a restructuring of resources, manufacturing, supply chain, marketing, sales and administrative resources. As a result, our operations, results, financial position and liquidity could be negatively impacted. There are no assurances that such implementation will be successful or that the results we achieve through these plans will be consistent with our expectations. Additionally, if restructuring plans are not effectively managed, we may experience lost customer sales, product delays and other unanticipated effects, causing harm to our business and customer relationships. The business plans are subject to a number of assumptions, projections, and analysis. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, we may be unsuccessful in executing our business plan or achieving the projected results, which could adversely impact our financial results and liquidity. Finally, the timing and implementation of these plans require compliance with numerous laws and regulations, including local labor laws, and the failure to comply with such requirements may result in damages, fines and penalties which could adversely affect the Company’s business. PAGE 8 Table of Contents Kodak’s inability to effectively complete and manage partnerships and other significant transactions could adversely impact our business performance, including our financial results. As part of the Company’s strategy, we may be engaged in discussions with third parties regarding possible divestitures, asset sales, investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and enter into agreements relating to such transactions in order to further our business objectives. In order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify suitable buyers, sellers and partners and successfully complete transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post closing issues such as the elimination of any remaining post-sale costs related to divested businesses. Risks of transactions can be more pronounced for larger and more complicated transactions, or if multiple transactions are pursued simultaneously. If we fail to identify and successfully complete transactions that further the Company’s strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our revenue, gross margins and profitability. In addition, unpredictability surrounding the timing of such transactions could adversely affect our financial results. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to comply with the terms of our various credit facilities. A breach of any of the financial or other covenants contained in our Senior Secured First Lien Term Credit Agreement (the “First Lien Term Credit Agreement”), Senior Secured Second Lien Term Credit Agreement (the “Second Lien Term Credit Agreement”, and together with the First Lien Term Credit Agreement, the “Term Credit Agreements”) or the Asset Based Revolving Credit Agreement (the “ABL Credit Agreement”), and together with the Term Credit Agreements, the “Credit Agreements”) could result in an event of default under these facilities, subject, in certain cases, to applicable grace and cure periods. If any event of default occurs and we are not able either to cure it or obtain a waiver from the requisite lenders under each of these facilities, the administrative agent of each credit facility may, and at the request of the requisite lenders for that facility shall, declare all of our outstanding obligations under the applicable credit facility, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable, and the agent under the ABL Credit Agreement may, and at the request of the requisite lenders shall, terminate the lenders’ commitments under that facility and cease making further loans, and if applicable, each respective agent could institute foreclosure proceedings against our pledged assets. This could adversely affect our operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations as they come due. The extent to which the U.K. Kodak Pension Plan (KPP) Purchasing Parties are able to successfully operate the Personalized Imaging and Document Imaging Businesses (the Business) that they acquired from the Company, and to meet their commitments under transition services and other agreements entered into with the Company, could affect our brand, reputation and financial results. The Amended Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement (“Amended SAPA”) and certain related agreements permit the KPP Purchasing Parties to use the Kodak name and brand in its operations of the Business on a going-forward basis. If the KPP Purchasing Parties are not successful in the operation of the Business, the Company’s brand image and reputation as a producer of high quality products could be harmed, which could affect our financial results or operations. In addition, in connection with the closing under the Amended SAPA, on the Effective Date, the Company entered into certain transition services agreements with the KPP Purchasing Parties under which the KPP Purchasing Parties are purchasing services from the Company. The inability of the KPP Purchasing Parties to make payments as they are due under the transition service agreements could negatively affect our financial results. Further, with respect to certain jurisdictions for which deferred closings are scheduled to occur pursuant to the Amended SAPA on certain future dates, certain factors may delay the closings from occurring on the dates specified in the Amended SAPA, which could result in costs or operational impacts to Kodak. Upon our emergence from chapter 11, a new Board of Directors was appointed, whose ability to quickly learn our business and lead our Company will be critical to our success. Pursuant to the Plan, a new Board of Directors was appointed to lead the Company upon emergence from chapter 11. The Board consists of six new Directors who have not previously served on the Kodak Board and are expanding their knowledge of the Company’s operations and strategic plans. The ability of the new Directors to quickly expand their knowledge of our business plans, operations and strategies and our technologies will be critical to their ability to make informed decisions about Company strategy and operations, particularly given the competitive environment in which our businesses operate and the need to quickly adjust to technological trends and advancements. If our Board of Directors is not sufficiently informed to make such decisions, our ability to compete effectively and profitably could be adversely affected. Kodak’s future pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs and required level of contributions could be unfavorably impacted by changes in actuarial assumptions, market performance of plan assets and obligations imposed by legislation or pension authorities which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flow. Kodak has significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The funded status of our U.S. and non U.S. defined benefit pension plans (and other postretirement benefit plans), and the related cost reflected in our financial statements, are affected by various factors that are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Key assumptions used to value PAGE 9 Table of Contents these benefit obligations, funded status and expense recognition include the discount rate for future payment obligations, the long term expected rate of return on plan assets, salary growth, healthcare cost trend rates, mortality trends, and other economic and demographic factors. Significant differences in actual experience, or significant changes in future assumptions or obligations imposed by legislation, or pension authorities could lead to a potential future need to contribute cash or assets to Kodak’s plans in excess of currently estimated contributions and benefit payments and could have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. The competitive pressures we face could harm Kodak’s revenue, gross margins and market share. The markets in which we do business are highly competitive with large, entrenched, and well financed industry participants. In addition, we encounter aggressive price competition for all our products and services from numerous companies globally. Kodak’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. If our products, services and pricing are not sufficiently competitive with current and future competitors, we could also lose market share, adversely affecting our revenue and gross margins. If Kodak’s commercialization and manufacturing processes fail to prevent product reliability and quality issues, our product launch plans may be delayed, our financial results may be adversely impacted, and our reputation may be harmed. In developing, commercializing and manufacturing Kodak’s products and services, we must adequately address reliability and other quality issues, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products. Because Kodak’s products are sophisticated and complicated to develop and commercialize with rapid advances in technologies, the occurrence of defects may increase, particularly with the introduction of new product lines. Unanticipated issues with product performance may delay product launch plans which could result in additional expenses, lost revenue and earnings. Although we have established internal procedures to minimize risks that may arise from product quality issues, there can be no assurance that we will be able to eliminate or mitigate occurrences of these issues and associated liabilities. Product reliability and quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand image, and our reputation as a producer of high quality products could suffer, which could adversely affect our business as well as our financial results. Product quality issues can also result in recalls, warranty, or other service obligations and litigation. If we cannot effectively anticipate technology trends and develop and market new products to respond to changing customer preferences, our revenue, earnings and cash flow, could be adversely affected. We have transformed ourselves into a technology company serving imaging for business markets including packaging, functional printing, graphic communications and enterprise services. Our success in these businesses depends on our ability to offer differentiated solutions to capture market share and grow scale. To enable this, we must develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner to keep pace with technological developments and achieve customer acceptance. We must also effectively communicate to our customers, investors, and other key stakeholders our transformed business model, and successfully market our products for the markets we serve. If we are unable to anticipate new technology trends, develop improvements to the Company’s current technology to address changing customer preferences, and effectively communicate, our businesses, products, and the markets we serve this could adversely affect our revenue, earnings and cash flow. If we cannot protect the intellectual property rights on which the Company’s business depends, or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights, our revenue, earnings, expenses and liquidity may be adversely impacted. Patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and non-disclosure, confidentiality and other types of agreements with Kodak’s employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, may not be effective in establishing, maintaining and enforcing the Company’s intellectual property rights. Any of the Company’s direct or indirect intellectual property rights could, however, be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect the Company’s proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the information technology industry, much of the Company’s business and many of the Company’s products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. We have made substantial investments in new, proprietary technologies and have filed patent applications and obtained patents to protect the Company’s intellectual property rights in these technologies as well as the interests of the Company’s licensees. There can be no assurance that the Company’s patent applications will be approved, that any patents issued will adequately protect the Company’s intellectual property or that such patents will not be challenged by third parties. PAGE 10 Table of Contents In addition, third parties may claim that Kodak’s customers, licensees or other parties indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to block or limit our access to certain markets. Additionally, in recent years, individuals and groups have begun purchasing intellectual property assets for the sole purpose of making claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from large companies like ours. Even if we believe that the claims are without merit, such claims can be time consuming and costly to defend and may distract management’s attention and resources. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all, license the technology on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and earnings could be adversely impacted. Finally, we use open source software in connection with our products and services. Companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. Any requirement to disclose the Company’s source code or pay damages for breach of contract could be harmful to our business results of operations and financial condition. Weakness or worsening of global economic conditions could adversely affect our financial performance and liquidity. The global economic environment can adversely affect sales of our products and profitability. Global financial markets have been experiencing volatility. Economic conditions could accelerate any decline in demand for traditional products, which could also place pressure on our results of operations and liquidity. There is no guarantee that anticipated economic growth levels in markets that have experienced some economic strength will continue in the future, or that we will succeed in expanding sales in these markets. In addition, accounts receivable and past due accounts could increase due to a decline in our customers’ ability to pay as a result of an economic downturn, and the Company’s liquidity, including our ability to use credit lines, could be negatively impacted by failures of financial instrument counterparties, including banks and other financial institutions. If global economic weakness and tightness in the credit markets exists, worsens or is attenuated, the Company’s profitability and related cash generation capability could be adversely affected and, therefore, affect the Company’s ability to meet the Company’s anticipated cash needs, impair the Company’s liquidity or increase the Company’s costs of borrowing. If we cannot attract, retain and motivate key employees, Kodak’s revenue and earnings could be harmed. In order for us to be successful, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including technical, managerial, marketing, sales, research and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, research and engineering professionals, and qualified sales representatives, particularly in Kodak’s targeted growth markets, are critical to our future. The Company intends to hire a new Chief Executive Officer, and our ability to attract and retain a new Chief Executive Officer capable of leading the Company is critical to our future success. If we do not attract qualified individuals, and retain key leaders, executives and employees, our business could be harmed. Due to the nature of the products we sell and Kodak’s worldwide distribution, we are subject to changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity costs that may adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. As a result of Kodak’s global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Exchange rates and interest rates in markets in which we do business tend to be volatile and at times, our sales can be negatively impacted across all of the Company’s segments depending upon the value of the U.S. dollar, the Euro and other major currencies. In addition, the Company’s products contain, aluminum, silver, petroleum based or other commodity-based raw materials, the prices of which have been and may continue to be volatile. If the global economic situation remains uncertain or worsens, there could be further volatility in changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices, which could have negative effects on our revenue and earnings. An inability to provide competitive financing arrangements to Kodak’s customers or extension of credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and financial position. The competitive environment in which we operate may require us to facilitate or provide financing to our customers in order to win a contract. Customer financing arrangements may cover all or a portion of the purchase price for the Company’s products and services. We may also assist customers in obtaining financing from banks and other sources. Our success may be PAGE 11 Table of Contents dependent, in part, upon our ability to provide customer financing on competitive terms and on our customers’ creditworthiness. Tightening of credit in the global financial markets can adversely affect the ability of Kodak’s customers to obtain financing for significant purchases, which may result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products and services. If we are unable to provide competitive financing solutions to our customers or if we extend credit to customers whose creditworthiness deteriorates, our revenues, profitability and financial position could be adversely impacted. We have outsourced a significant portion of Kodak’s overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics and back office operations and face the risks associated with reliance on third party suppliers. We have outsourced a significant portion of our overall worldwide manufacturing, logistics, customer support and administrative operations to third parties. To the extent that we rely on third party service providers, we face the risk that those third parties may not be able to: • develop manufacturing methods appropriate for the Company’s products; • maintain an adequate control environment; • quickly respond to changes in customer demand for the Company’s products; • obtain supplies and materials necessary for the manufacturing process; or • mitigate the impact of labor shortages and/or disruptions. Further, even if Kodak honors its payment and other obligations to its key suppliers of products, components and services, such suppliers may choose to unilaterally withhold products, components or services, or demand changes in payment terms. As a result of such risks, we may be unable to meet our customer commitments, our costs could be higher than planned, and our cash flows and the reliability of the Company’s products could be negatively impacted. Kodak will vigorously enforce its contractual rights under such circumstances, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in preventing or mitigating the effects of unilateral actions by our suppliers. Other supplier problems that we could face include electronic component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the duration of Kodak’s contracts with suppliers for components and materials and risks related to dependency on single source suppliers on favorable terms or at all. The realization of any of these risks should alternative third-party relationships not be established, could cause interruptions in supply or increases in costs that might result in Kodak’s inability to meet customer demand for our products, damage to our relationships with Kodak’s customers, and reduced market share, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, cyber attacks, terrorism, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics, political or economic instability, and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. In addition, some areas, including parts of the east and west coasts of the United States, have previously experienced, and may experience in the future, major power shortages and blackouts. These blackouts could cause disruptions to our operations or the operations of our suppliers, distributors and resellers, or customers. We have operations including research and development facilities in geographically disparate locations, such as Israel, Japan, China, Singapore, and Canada. The impact of these risks is greater in areas where products are manufactured at a sole or limited number of location(s), and where the sourcing of materials is limited to a sole or limited base of suppliers, since any material interruption in operations in such locations or suppliers could impact our ability to provide a particular product or service for a period of time. These events could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, and increase our costs and expenses. Kodak’s businesses experience seasonality of sales. Therefore, lower demand for the Company’s products or increases in costs during periods that are expected to be at peak in seasonality may have a pronounced negative effect on our results of operations. Equipment sales for the DP&E Segment and for Graphics, within the GECF Segment, generally exhibit higher levels in the fourth quarter due to the seasonal nature of placements, resulting from customer or industry budgeting practices. Sales of entertainment imaging film within the GECF Segment are typically strongest in the second quarter reflecting increased demand due to the summer motion picture season. Developments during what are expected to be peak periods in seasonality, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems failure, increases in materials costs, or failure of or performance problems with one of our key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Tight credit markets that limit capital investments or a weak economy that decreases print demand could negatively impact equipment or consumable sales. These external developments are often unpredictable and may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. PAGE 12 Table of Contents If we fail to manage distribution of the Company’s products and services properly, our revenue, gross margins and earnings could be adversely impacted. We use a variety of different distribution methods to sell and deliver the Company’s products and services, including third party resellers and distributors and direct and indirect sales to both enterprise accounts and customers. Successfully managing the interaction of direct and indirect channels to various potential customer segments for the Company’s products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and costs, Kodak’s failure to achieve the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for the Company’s products and services could adversely affect our revenue, gross margins and earnings. This has concentrated the Company’s credit and operational risk and could result in an adverse impact on our financial performance. We may be required to recognize impairments in the value of the Company’s goodwill and/or other long-lived assets resulting from the application of fresh start accounting, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, we applied fresh start accounting pursuant to which the reorganization value was allocated to the individual assets and liabilities based on their estimated fair values. The excess reorganization value over the fair value of identified tangible and intangibles assets is reported as goodwill. In connection with fresh start, we also fair valued our other long-lived assets, including intangible assets. The determination of reorganization value, equity value of Successor Company common stock and fair value of assets and liabilities is dependent on various estimates and assumptions, including financial projections and the realization of certain events. We test goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We evaluate other long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairments could occur in the future if the expected future cash flows of the Company decline, market or interest rate environments deteriorate, or if carrying values change materially compared with changes in their respective fair values. Kodak’s future results could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to expand sales in emerging markets. Because we are seeking to expand our sales and number of customer relationships outside the United States, and specifically in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe, the Company’s business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally, such as: • support of multiple languages; • recruitment of sales and technical support personnel with the skills to design, manufacture, sell and supply products; • compliance with governmental regulation of imports and exports, including obtaining required import or export approval for the Company’s products; • complexity of managing international operations; • exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • commercial laws and business practices that may favor local competition; • multiple, potentially conflicting, and changing governmental laws, regulations and practices, including differing export, import, tax, anti-corruption, labor, and employment laws; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • limitations or restrictions on the repatriation of cash; • limitations or reductions in protection of intellectual property rights; • complications in logistics and distribution arrangements; and • political or economic instability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to market and sell our products in all of Kodak’s targeted markets. If our efforts are not successful, our business growth and results of operations could be harmed. As a global company, Kodak is subject to regulatory requirements and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and any alleged non-compliance with these requirements or laws could result in an adverse financial or reputational impact. PAGE 13 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and failure to comply with such laws and regulations or liabilities imposed as a result of such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we conduct the Company’s business, including laws regarding the discharge of pollutants, including greenhouse gases, into the air and water, the need for environmental permits for certain operations, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, the content of the Company’s products and the recycling and treatment and disposal of the Company’s products. If we do not comply with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the use and management of hazardous substances, then we could be subject to liability and/or could be prohibited from operating certain facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The cost of complying with such laws, and costs associated with the cleanup of contaminated sites, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the New York State Urban Development Corporation have entered into a settlement agreement of the Company’s historical environmental liabilities at Eastman Business Park through the establishment of a $49 million environmental remediation trust. Should historical liabilities exceed $49 million, New York State is responsible for payments of cost up to an additional $50 million. In the event the historical liabilities exceed $99 million, the Company will become liable for 50% of the portion above $99 million, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The settlement agreement is not yet effective and is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions including Bankruptcy Court approval of a covenant not to sue from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Any uncertainties related to the Company’s environmental obligations may impact our ability to further develop and transform Eastman Business Park. Regulations related to “conflict minerals” will require the Company to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing the Company’s products. In August 2012, the SEC adopted rules requiring disclosure related to sourcing of specified minerals, known as “conflict minerals”, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The rules, effective in 2013, require a report to be filed by May 31, 2014, and if applicable, require companies to undertake due diligence, disclose whether or not such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an adjoining country. As a result, the Company has developed a framework and management system consistent with the guidance issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OEDC), and is currently performing due diligence on our supply chain. The implementation of the rules could adversely affect our sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in the Company’s products. There may only be a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” conflict minerals, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain necessary “conflict free” conflict minerals from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Because Kodak’s supply chain is complex, we may also not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in the Company’s products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 