ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSSet forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 9 and 38.If we are unable to successfully expand our product lines through internal research & development and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Continued growth of our business depends on our maintaining a pipeline of profitable new products and successful improvements to our existing products. This requires accurate market analysis and carefully targeted application of intellectual and financial resources toward technological innovation or acquisition of new products. The creation and adoption of technological advances is only one step. We must also efficiently develop the technology into a product which confers a competitive advantage, represents a cost effective solution or provides improved clinical outcomes. The risks of missteps and set backs are an inherent part of the innovation and development processes in the medical device industry.If we are unable to successfully grow our business through marketing partnerships and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Promising partnerships and acquisitions may not be completed for reasons such as competition among prospective partners or buyers, our inability to reach satisfactory terms, or the need for regulatory approvals. Any acquisition that we complete may be dilutive to earnings and require that we invest significant resources. The economic environment may constrain our ability to access the capital needed for acquisitions and other capital investments.Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. The integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of managements' time. Factors that affect the success of acquisitions include the strength of the acquired company's underlying technology and ability to execute, our ability to retain employees, and our ability to achieve synergies, such as increasing sales and achieving cost savings. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined acquired companies could have an adverse impact on our business and our future growth. The implementation of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect us. The Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act was enacted into law in the U.S. in March 2010. This legislation includes a provision that imposes a 2.3% excise tax on the sale of certain medical devices by a manufacturer, producer or importer of such devices in the United States starting after December 31, 2012. While we are waiting for further regulations to be established, we continue to evaluate the potential impact that this tax may have on our overall business. U.S. net sales represented approximately 48.4% of our worldwide sales in fiscal 2012 and, therefore, this tax burden may have a material impact on our results of operations. An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials may adversely affect our business. Certain key products are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase certain components and raw materials from sole suppliers. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other similar non-U.S. regulatory agencies regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may incur significant debt in the future which could adversely affect our financial health and may result in restrictions on our operations. We may need to incur debt in the future, for example, to acquire complementary businesses. Our indebtedness would increase certain risks, including but not limited to the inability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt instruments, our inability to adjust to adverse economic conditions, our inability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements, and our inability to generate sufficient funds to cover required interest payments. The terms of our debt agreements may include covenants which could impose restrictions on our operations and limit 10Table of Contentsour ability to pursue our growth strategy. As a medical device manufacturer we are subject to a number of laws and regulations. Non-compliance with those laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory bodies. We must obtain specific regulatory clearance prior to selling any new product or service, a process which is costly and time consuming. Our operations are also subject to continuous review and monitoring by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to substantially comply with applicable regulations could subject our products to recall or seizure by government authorities, or an order to suspend manufacturing activities. As well, if our products were determined to have design or manufacturing flaws, this could result in their recall or seizure. Either of these situations could also result in the imposition of fines.As a majority of our revenue comes from outside the United States, we are subject to export and import restrictions, local regulatory authorities and the laws and medical practices in foreign jurisdictions. Export of U.S. technology or goods manufactured in the United States to some jurisdictions requires special U.S. export authorization or local market controls that may be influenced by factors, including political dynamics, outside our control. Regulations relating to the use of certain materials in the manufacture of our products could also require us to convert our production to alternate material(s), which may be more costly or less effective.Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources. Their greater financial resources may allow them to more rapidly develop new technologies and more quickly address changes in customer requirements. Although no one company competes with us across our full line of products, we face competition in each of our product lines. Our ability to remain competitive depends on a combination of factors. Certain factors are within our control such as reputation, regulatory approvals, patents, unpatented proprietary know-how in several technological areas, product quality, safety, cost effectiveness and continued rigorous documentation of clinical performance. Other factors are outside of our control such as regulatory standards, medical standards, reimbursement policies and practices, and the practice of medicine.Loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our business. The Japanese Red Cross Society (JRC) is a significant customer that represented 13.7% of our revenues in fiscal 2012. Additionally, a global healthcare customer ("Customer B") represented approximately 11.0% of our net revenues in fiscal 2012. Because of the size of these relationships we could experience a significant reduction in revenue if the JRC or Customer B decided to significantly reduce its purchases from us for any reason including a desire to rebalance its purchases between vendors, or if we are unable to obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals in Japan. We also have a concentration of credit risk due to our outstanding accounts receivable balances with the JRC and Customer B.Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition. A portion of our trade accounts receivable outside the United States include sales to government-owned or supported healthcare systems in several countries, which are subject to payment delays. Payment is dependent upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of those countries’ national economies. We have not incurred significant losses on government receivables. We continually evaluate all government receivables for potential collection risks associated with the availability of government funding and reimbursement practices. If the financial condition of customers or the countries’ healthcare systems deteriorate such that their ability to make payments is uncertain, allowances may be required in future periods.Deteriorating credit and economic conditions in parts of Western Europe, particularly in Italy where our net accounts receivable is $21.0 million as of March 31, 2012, may increase the average length of time it takes us to collect our accounts receivable in certain regions within these countries.As a global corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. International revenues and expenses account for a substantial portion of our operations and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. In fiscal 2012, our international revenues accounted for 51.6% of our total revenues. The exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes different forms. Reported revenues for sales, as well as manufacturing and operational costs, denominated in foreign currencies by our international businesses, when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services sold by us into international markets, where payment for our products and services and related manufacturing and operational costs is made in local currencies.We are subject to the risks associated with communicable diseases. A significant outbreak of a disease could reduce the 11Table of Contentsdemand for our products and affect our ability to provide our customers with products and services. An eligible donor’s willingness to donate is affected by concerns about their personal health and safety. Concerns about communicable diseases (such as pandemic flu, SARS, or HIV) could reduce the number of donors, and accordingly reduce the demand for our products for a period of time. A significant outbreak of a disease could also affect our employees’ ability to work, which could limit our ability to produce product and service our customers.There is a risk that the Company’s intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation in some countries. Certain countries, particularly China, do not enforce compliance with laws that protect intellectual property (“IP”) rights with the same degree of vigor as is available under the U.S. and European systems of justice. Further, certain of the Company’s IP rights are not registered in China, or if they were, have since expired. This may permit others to produce copies of products in China that are not covered by currently valid patent registrations. There is also a risk that such products may be exported from China to other countries.In order to aggressively protect our intellectual property throughout the world, we have a program of patent disclosures and filings in markets where we conduct significant business. While we believe this program is reasonable and adequate, the risk of loss is inherent in litigation as different legal systems offer different levels of protection to intellectual property, and it is still possible that even patented technologies may not be protected absolutely from infringement. Pending and future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us.We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation. We are currently pursuing intellectual property infringement claims described in more detail under Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 10- Commitments and Contingencies to our fiscal 2012 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Intellectual property litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Patent litigation may result in adverse outcomes and could significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. We sell our products in certain emerging economies. Emerging economies, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, have less mature product regulatory systems, and can have more volatile financial markets. In addition, government controlled health care systems’ willingness or ability to invest in our products and systems may abruptly change due to changing government priorities or funding capacity. Our ability to sell products in these economies is dependent upon our ability to hire qualified employees or agents to represent our products locally, and our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in a less mature regulatory environment. If we are unable to retain qualified representatives or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be able to continue to sell products in these markets. We are exposed to a higher degree of financial risk, if we extend credit to customers in these economies.In many of the international markets in which we do business, including certain parts of Europe, South America, the Middle East, Russia and Asia, our employees, agents or distributors offer to sell our products in response to public tenders issued by various governmental agencies. There is additional risk in selling our products through agents or distributors, particularly in public tenders. If they misrepresent our products, do not provide appropriate service and delivery, or commit a violation of local or U.S. law, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to fines, sanctions or both.We have a complex international supply chain. Any disruption to one or more of our suppliers’ production or delivery of sufficient volumes of subcomponents conforming to our specifications could disrupt or delay our ability to deliver finished products to our customers. For example, we purchase components in Asia for use in manufacturing in the United States and Scotland. We also regularly ship finished goods from Scotland to Europe and Asia.Plastics are the principal component of our disposables, which are the main source of our revenues. Increases in the price of petroleum derivatives could result in corresponding increases in our costs to procure plastic raw materials. Increases in the costs of other commodities may affect our procurement costs to a lesser degree.The technologies that cover our products are the subject of active patent prosecution. There is a risk that one or more of our products may be determined to infringe a patent held by another party. If this were to occur we may be subject to an injunction or to payment of royalties, or both, which may adversely affect our ability to market the affected product(s). In addition, competitors may patent technological advances which may give them a competitive advantage or create barriers to entry.12Table of ContentsOur products are made with materials which are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. Environmental regulations may prohibit the use of certain compounds in products we market and sell into regulated markets. If we are unable to substitute suitable materials into our processes, our manufacturing operations may be disrupted. In addition, we may be obligated to disclose the origin of certain materials used in our products, including but not limited to metals mined from locations which have been the site of human rights violations.We are entrusted with sensitive personal information relating to surgical patients, blood donors, employees and other persons in the course of operating our business and serving our customers. Government agencies require that we implement measures to ensure the integrity and security of such personal data and, in the event of a breach of protocol, that we inform affected individuals. If our systems were not properly designed or implemented, or should suffer a breach of security or an intrusion (e.g., “hacking”) by unauthorized persons, the Company’s reputation could be harmed, and it could incur costs and liabilities to affected persons and enforcement agencies.We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. Our products are relied upon by medical personnel in connection with the treatment of patients and the collection of blood from donors. In the event that patients or donors sustain injury or death in connection with their condition or treatment, we, along with others, may be sued, and whether or not we are ultimately determined to be liable, we may incur significant legal expenses. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. In addition, such litigation could damage our reputation and, therefore, impair our ability to market our products or to obtain professional or product liability insurance or cause the premiums for such insurances to increase. We carry product liability coverage. While we believe that the aggregate current coverage is sufficient, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate to cover liabilities which may be incurred. Moreover, we may in the future be unable to obtain product and professional liability coverage in amounts and on terms that we find acceptable, if at all.Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to increased demands for price concessions or the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including plasma fractionation companies and hospitals. This consolidation has resulted in greater pricing pressures, decreased average selling prices, and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as group purchasing organizations, integrated delivery networks and large single accounts continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.