Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 47. Our inability to successfully expand the business, through internal research and development, marketing partnerships and acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Promising partnerships and acquisitions may not be completed for reasons such as competition among prospective partners or buyers, our inability to reach satisfactory terms, or the need for regulatory approvals. Any acquisition that we complete may be dilutive to earnings and require that we invest significant resources. We may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated market growth or cost savings. If we are unable to successfully keep pace with technological advances in the medical field and the standards for transfusion medicine, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. The success of our products will depend upon our ability to anticipate and meet the needs of the medical field, particularly those who practice transfusion medicine. Additionally, we must be able to manufacture the products in a cost effective manner, with high quality and obtain permission to market and sell the products from various regulatory authorities. As a medical device manufacturer we are subject to a number of existing laws and regulations, non-compliance with those laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory bodies. Some regulatory authorities outside the United States may have a bias in favor of locally produced goods that could delay or prevent our achieving regulatory approval to market our products in such geographies. We must obtain specific regulatory clearance prior to selling any new product or service, and our operations are also subject to continuous review and monitoring by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The process of obtaining approval to market and distribute our products is costly and time-consuming. Export of U.S. technology or goods manufactured in the United States to some jurisdictions requires special U.S. export authorization that may be influenced by factors, including political dynamics, outside our control. Changes in privacy regulations and other developments in human subjects’ clinical trials could make it more difficult and more expensive to conduct clinical trials necessary for product approval. Regulations about the use of certain materials in the manufacture of health care products could also require us to identify alternate material(s), which may be at higher costs. The number of eligible blood donors is influenced by government regulations (including travel restrictions, health history, etc.) and other economic and sociological factors. Changes in donation related regulations could have significant immediate effects on the population of eligible donors. We are subject to various actions by government authorities that regulate medical devices including: product recalls, orders to cease manufacturing or distribution activities, and other sanctions or penalties. Compliance with these regulations is costly and additional regulation could adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers are also subject to these regulations. Our customers’ compliance with applicable regulations could also affect our results of operations. 17 Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources. Their greater financial resources may allow them to more rapidly develop new technologies, and more quickly address changes in customer requirements. Although no one company competes with us across our full line of products, we face competition in each of our product lines. Our ability to remain competitive depends on a combination of factors, including those within our control (reputation, regulatory approvals, patents, unpatented proprietary know-how in several technological areas, product quality, safety, cost effectiveness and continued rigorous documentation of clinical performance) as well as factors outside of our control (regulatory standards, medical standards and the practice of medicine). Also, sales of unauthorized copies of our products by local competitors in China could affect the demand and price paid for our products. As a multinational corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. International revenues account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. In 2006, our international revenues accounted for approximately 61% of our total revenues. The exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes different forms. Reported revenues for sales made in foreign currencies by our international businesses, when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services sold by us into international markets, where payment for our products and services is made in local currencies. We are subject to the risks of international economic and political conditions. Our international operations are subject to risks which are inherent in conducting business overseas and under foreign laws, regulations and customs. These risks include possible nationalization, expropriation, importation limitations, violations of U.S. or local laws, pricing restrictions, and other restrictive governmental actions. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we conduct international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to the risks associated with communicable diseases. A significant outbreak of a disease could reduce the demand for our products and affect our ability to provide our customers with products and services. An eligible donor’s willingness to donate is affected by concerns about their personal health and safety. Concerns about communicable diseases (such as HIV, SARS or pandemic bird flu) could reduce the number of donors, and accordingly reduce the demand for our products for a period of time. A significant outbreak of a disease could also affect our employees’ ability to work, which could limit our ability to produce product and service our customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 