Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 14 and 47. If we are unable to successfully expand our product lines through internal research & development and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Continued growth of our business depends on our maintaining a pipeline of profitable new products and successful improvements to our existing products. This requires accurate market analysis and carefully targeted application of intellectual and financial resources toward technological innovation or acquisition of new products. The creation and adoption of technological advances is only one step. We must also efficiently develop the technology into a product which 13 Table of Contents confers a competitive advantage, represents a cost effective solution or provides improved clinical outcomes. The risks of missteps and set backs are an inherent part of the innovation and development processes in the medical device industry. If we are unable to successfully grow our business through marketing partnerships and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Promising partnerships and acquisitions may not be completed for reasons such as competition among prospective partners or buyers, our inability to reach satisfactory terms, or the need for regulatory approvals. Any acquisition that we complete may be dilutive to earnings and require that we invest significant resources. We may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business into our existing business, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated market growth or cost savings. The economic environment may constrain our ability to access the capital needed for acquisitions and other capital investments. As a medical device manufacturer we are subject to a number of laws and regulations. Non-compliance with those laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory bodies. We must obtain specific regulatory clearance prior to selling any new product or service, a process which is costly and time consuming. Our operations are also subject to continuous review and monitoring by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to substantially comply with applicable regulations could subject our products to recall or seizure by government authorities, or an order to suspend manufacturing activities. As well, if our products were determined to have design or manufacturing flaws, this could result in their recall or seizure. Either of these situations could also result in the imposition of fines. As a majority of our revenue comes from outside the United States, we are subject to export and import restrictions, local regulatory authorities and the laws and medical practices in foreign jurisdictions. Export of U.S. technology or goods manufactured in the United States to some jurisdictions requires special U.S. export authorization or local market controls that may be influenced by factors, including political dynamics, outside our control. Regulations relating to the use of certain materials in the manufacture of our products could also require us to convert our production to alternate material(s), which may be more costly or less effective. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources. Their greater financial resources may allow them to more rapidly develop new technologies and more quickly address changes in customer requirements. Although no one company competes with us across our full line of products, we face competition in each of our product lines. Our ability to remain competitive depends on a combination of factors. Certain factors are within our control such as reputation, regulatory approvals, patents, unpatented proprietary know-how in several technological areas, product quality, safety, cost effectiveness and continued rigorous documentation of clinical performance. Other factors are outside of our control such as regulatory standards, medical standards, reimbursement policies and practices, and the practice of medicine. Loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our business. The Japan Red Cross Society (JRC) is a significant customer that represented 14.2% of our revenues in fiscal year 2011. Because of the size of this relationship we could experience a significant reduction in revenue if the JRC decided to significantly reduce its purchases from us for any reason including a desire to rebalance its purchases between vendors, or if we are unable to obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals in Japan. We also have a concentration of credit risk due to our outstanding accounts receivable balances with the JRC. Additionally, certain other markets and industries can expose us to concentration risk. For example, in our commercial plasma business, customers are relatively large in size. Because of the size of the relationship, we could experience a significant reduction in revenue if one or more customers did not renew their contracts. As a global corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. International revenues and expenses account for a substantial portion of our operations and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international 14 Table of Contents markets. In fiscal year 2011, our international revenues accounted for 53.1% of our total revenues. The exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes different forms. Reported revenues for sales, as well as manufacturing and operational costs, denominated in foreign currencies by our international businesses, when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services sold by us into international markets, where payment for our products and services and related manufacturing and operational costs is made in local currencies. We are subject to the risks associated with communicable diseases. A significant outbreak of a disease could reduce the demand for our products and affect our ability to provide our customers with products and services. An eligible donor’s willingness to donate is affected by concerns about their personal health and safety. Concerns about communicable diseases (such as pandemic flu, SARS, or HIV) could reduce the number of donors, and accordingly reduce the demand for our products for a period of time. A significant outbreak of a disease could also affect our employees’ ability to work, which could limit our ability to produce product and service our customers. There is a risk that the Company’s intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation in some countries. Certain countries, particularly China, do not enforce compliance with laws that protect intellectual property (“IP”) rights with the same degree of vigor as is available under the U.S. and European systems of justice. Further, certain of the Company’s IP rights are not registered in China, or if they were, have since expired. This may permit others to produce copies of products in China that are not covered by currently valid patent registrations. There is also a risk that such products may be exported from China to other countries. We sell our products in certain emerging economies. Emerging economies, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, have less mature product regulatory systems, and can have more volatile financial markets. In addition, government controlled health care systems’ willingness or ability to invest in our products and systems may abruptly change due to changing government priorities or funding capacity. Our ability to sell products in these economies is dependent upon our ability to hire qualified employees or agents to represent our products locally, and our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in a less mature regulatory environment. If we are unable to retain qualified representatives or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be able to continue to sell products in these markets. We are exposed to a higher degree of financial risk, if we extend credit to customers in these economies. In many of the international markets in which we do business, including certain parts of Europe, South America, the Middle East, Russia and Asia, our employees, agents or distributors offer to sell our products in response to public tenders issued by various governmental agencies. There is additional risk in selling our products through agents or distributors, particularly in public tenders. If they misrepresent our products, do not provide appropriate service and delivery, or commit a violation of local or U.S. law, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to fines, sanctions or both. We have a complex international supply chain. Any disruption to one or more of our suppliers’ production or delivery of sufficient volumes of subcomponents conforming to our specifications could disrupt or delay our ability to deliver finished products to our customers. For example, we purchase components in Asia for use in manufacturing in the United States and Scotland. We also regularly ship finished goods from Scotland to Europe and Asia. Plastics are the principal component of our disposables, which are the main source of our revenues. Increases in the price of petroleum derivatives could result in corresponding increases in our costs to procure plastic raw materials. Increases in the costs of other commodities may affect our procurement costs to a lesser degree. The technologies that cover our products are the subject of active patent prosecution. There is a risk that one or more of our products may be determined to infringe a patent held by another party. If this were to occur we may be subject to an injunction or to payment of royalties, or both, which may adversely affect our ability to market the affected product(s). In addition, competitors may patent technological advances which may give them a competitive advantage or create barriers to entry. 15 Table of Contents Our products are made with materials which are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. Environmental regulations may prohibit the use of certain compounds in products we market and sell into regulated markets. If we are unable to substitute suitable materials into our processes, our manufacturing operations may be disrupted. In addition, we may be obligated to disclose the origin of certain materials used in our products, including but not limited to metals mined from locations which have been the site of human rights violations. We are entrusted with sensitive personal information relating to surgical patients, blood donors, employees and other persons in the course of operating our business and serving our customers. Government agencies require that we implement measures to ensure the integrity and security of such personal data and, in the event of a breach of protocol, that we inform affected individuals. If our systems were not properly designed or implemented, or should suffer a breach of security or an intrusion (e.g., “hacking”) by unauthorized persons, the Company’s reputation could be harmed, and it could incur costs and liabilities to affected persons and enforcement agencies. We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 