ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSSet forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements on page 10 and page 40.If we are unable to successfully expand our product lines through internal research & development and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Continued growth of our business depends on our maintaining a pipeline of profitable new products and successful improvements to our existing products. This requires accurate market analysis and carefully targeted application of intellectual and financial resources toward technological innovation or acquisition of new products. The creation and adoption of technological advances is only one step. We must also efficiently develop the technology into a product which confers a competitive advantage, represents a cost effective solution or provides improved clinical outcomes. The risks of missteps and set backs are an inherent part of the innovation and development processes in the medical device industry.If we are unable to successfully grow our business through marketing partnerships and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Promising partnerships and acquisitions may not be completed for reasons such as competition among prospective partners or buyers, our inability to reach satisfactory terms, or the need for regulatory approvals. Any acquisition that we complete may be dilutive to earnings and require the investment of significant resources. The economic environment may constrain our ability to access the capital needed for acquisitions and other capital investments.A significant portion of our revenue derives from the sale of blood collection supplies. The decline in the number of blood collection procedures may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Sales to blood collectors represented 48.3% of our consolidated disposables revenues in fiscal 2014. In certain markets, changes in medical protocols and the development of less invasive, lower blood loss procedures has reduced the number of transfusions of red blood cells, which has in turn led to a decline in the number of blood collection procedures. This is particularly true in the United States, where we expect to see collections decline by approximately 10% in fiscal 2015. If we are unable to gain and maintain higher market share, lower procedure levels could result in lower net revenues and higher product costs.Consolidation of the healthcare providers and blood collectors has increased demand for price concessions and caused the exclusion of suppliers from significant market segments, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The costs of healthcare in the United States have risen significantly over the past decade. Numerous initiatives and reform by legislators, regulators and third-party payers to curb these costs has reduced reimbursement rates which is causing hospitals to consolidate into larger integrated delivery networks and group purchasing organizations in an effort to reduce administrative costs and increase purchasing power. This consolidation has resulted in greater pricing pressure on suppliers, decreased average selling prices and a greater the number of sole source relationships. This pressure impacts our Hospital and Blood Center businesses. The expansion among hospitals in the United States of group purchasing organizations, integrated delivery networks and large single accounts directly puts price pressure on our Hospital business. It also puts price pressure on our United States Blood Center customers who are also facing reduced demand for red cells. Our Blood Center customers have responded to this pressure by creating their own group purchasing organizations and resorting to single source tenders to create incentives for suppliers, including us, to significantly reduce prices. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors. This may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.Quality problems with our processes, goods, and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales, and market share.Quality is extremely important to us and our customers due to the serious and costly consequences of product failure. Our quality certifications are critical to the marketing success of our products and services. If we fail to meet these standards or fail to adapt to evolving standards, our reputation could be damaged, we could lose customers, and our revenue and results of operations could decline. 11Table of ContentsAs approximately half of our revenue comes from outside the United States, we are subject to geopolitical risk, economic volatility, anti-corruption laws, export and import restrictions, local regulatory authorities and the laws and medical practices in foreign jurisdictions. We do business in over 100 countries, including significant business in Russia and China. We have distributors in 90 of those countries. This exposes us to geopolitical risk, economic volatility, anti-corruption laws, export and import restrictions, local regulatory authorities and the laws and medical practices in foreign jurisdictions.If there are sanctions or restrictions on the flow of capital which prevent product importation or receipt of payments in Russia or China, our business could be adversely affected.Our international operations are governed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other similar anti-corruption laws in other countries. Generally, these laws prohibit companies and their business partners or other intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign governments and government officials in order to obtain or retain business. Global enforcement of such anti-corruption laws has increased in recent years, including aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings. While we have an active compliance program and various other safeguards to discourage impermissible practices, we have distributors in 90 countries, several of which are considered high risk for corruption. As a result, our global operations carry some risk of unauthorized impermissible activity on the part of one of our distributors, employees, agents or consultants. Any alleged or actual violation could subject us to government scrutiny, severe criminal or civil fines, or sanctions on our ability to export product outside the U.S., which could adversely affect our reputation and financial condition.Export of U.S. technology or goods manufactured in the United States to some jurisdictions requires special U.S. export authorization or local market controls that may be influenced by factors, including political dynamics, outside our control. Finally, any other significant changes in the competitive, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environments of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our international business could have a material impact on our business.The implementation of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect us. The Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act was enacted into law in the U.S. in March 2010. In addition to a medical device tax, effective as of January 2013, the effects of which are considered in our financial disclosures, there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not yet been fully established or consequences not fully understood. We are unable to predict what healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at either the federal or state level, but any changes that may decrease reimbursement for our products, reduce medical procedure volumes or increase cost containment measures could adversely impact our business.An interruption in our ability to manufacture our products or an inability to obtain key components or raw materials may adversely affect our business. Certain key products are manufactured at single locations, with limited alternate facilities. If an event occurs that results in damage to one or more of our facilities, we may be unable to manufacture the relevant products at previous levels or at all. In addition, for reasons of quality assurance or cost effectiveness, we purchase certain finished goods, components and raw materials from sole suppliers, notably JMS Co. Ltd., Kawasumi Laboratories and Sanmina Corporation. Due to the stringent regulations and requirements of the FDA and other similar non-U.S. regulatory agencies regarding the manufacture of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. A reduction or interruption in manufacturing, or an inability to secure alternative sources of raw materials or components, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations or experience a disruption in our cash flows, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cost of borrowing.We incurred $475.0 million in debt to acquire the whole blood business. The obligations to pay interest and repay the borrowed amounts may restrict our ability to adjust to adverse economic conditions, our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisition or other general corporate requirements. The interest rate on the loan is variable and subject to change based on market forces. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows. In addition, as a global corporation we have significant cash reserves held in foreign countries. These balances may not be immediately available to repay our debt.Our credit facilities contain financial covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and make interest and principal payments. If we are unable to satisfy these covenants, we may be required to obtain waivers from our lenders and no assurance can be made that our lenders would grant such waivers on favorable terms, or at all, and we could be required to repay any borrowed amounts on short notice.12Table of ContentsAs a medical device manufacturer we are subject to a number of laws and regulations. Non-compliance with those laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory bodies. We must obtain specific regulatory clearance prior to selling any new product or service, a process which is costly and time consuming. If we are unable to obtain the necessary regulatory clearance we will be unable to introduce new enhanced product. Our operations are also subject to continuous review and monitoring by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to substantially comply with applicable regulations could subject our products to recall or seizure by government authorities, or an order to suspend manufacturing activities. As well, if our products were determined to have design or manufacturing flaws, this could result in their recall or seizure. Either of these situations could also result in the imposition of fines.Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial means and resources, which may allow them to more rapidly develop new technologies and more quickly address changes in customer requirements. Our ability to remain competitive depends on a combination of factors. Certain factors are within our control such as reputation, regulatory approvals, patents, unpatented proprietary know-how in several technological areas, product quality, safety, cost effectiveness and continued rigorous documentation of clinical performance. Other factors are outside of our control such as regulatory standards, medical standards, reimbursement policies and practices, and the practice of medicine.Loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our business.In fiscal 2014, although no one customer represented more than 10% of our revenues, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of our revenue. If any of our largest customers materially reduce their purchases from us or terminate their relationship with us for any reason, we could experience an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may not realize the expected benefits from our Manufacturing Network Optimization Program; our long-term plans will result in higher short-term expenses and require more cash expenditures.In May 2013, we announced a multi-year Manufacturing Network Optimization Program which is intended to reduce our manufacturing costs by changing our current manufacturing footprint and supply chain strategy. We expect the program will reduce manufacturing costs and improve supply chain efficiency when complete. However, there are no assurances these cost savings or supply chain efficiencies will be achieved, and implementation of the program could introduce risks such as management distraction, business disruption, and attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity which may reduce our revenue or increase our costs. In addition, the activities involve the movement of several product lines to new manufacturing locations. During these transitions, we may experience delays in the construction of our new facility in Malaysia or expanded facility in Mexico, challenges in transferring production to the new locations, additional costs, or unacceptable quality. These may lead to additional working capital, warranty or inventory costs. Finally, implementing the program will result in charges and expenses that impact our operating results and increase our level of capital expenditures.Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business.The integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time. Factors that affect the success of acquisitions include the strength of the acquired company's underlying technology and ability to execute, our ability to retain employees, and our ability to achieve synergies, such as increasing sales and achieving cost savings. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined acquired companies could have an adverse impact on our business and our future growth.Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition.A portion of our trade accounts receivable outside the United States include sales to government-owned or supported healthcare systems in several countries, which are subject to payment delays. Payment is dependent upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of those countries’ national economies. Although, we have not incurred significant losses on government receivables to date, we continually evaluate all government receivables for potential collection risks associated with the availability of government funding and reimbursement practices. If the financial condition of customers or the countries’ healthcare systems deteriorate such that their ability to make payments is uncertain, allowances may be required in future periods.13Table of ContentsAs a global corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. International revenues and expenses account for a substantial portion of our operations and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. In fiscal 2014, our international revenues accounted for 46.6% of our total revenues. The exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes different forms. Reported revenues for sales, as well as manufacturing and operational costs denominated in foreign currencies by our international businesses, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services sold by us into international markets, where payment for our products and services and related manufacturing and operational costs is made in local currencies.We are subject to the risks associated with communicable diseases. A significant outbreak of a disease could reduce the demand for our products and affect our ability to provide our customers with products and services. An eligible donor’s willingness to donate is affected by concerns about their personal health and safety. Concerns about communicable diseases (such as pandemic flu, SARS, or HIV) could reduce the number of donors, and accordingly reduce the demand for our products for a period of time. A significant outbreak of a disease could also affect our employees’ ability to work, which could limit our ability to produce product and service our customers.There is a risk that the Company’s intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation in some countries. Certain countries, particularly China, do not enforce compliance with laws that protect intellectual property (“IP”) rights with the same degree of vigor as is available under the U.S. and European systems of justice. Further, certain of the Company’s IP rights are not registered in China, or if they were, have since expired. This may permit others to produce copies of products in China that are not covered by currently valid patent registrations. There is also a risk that such products may be exported from China to other countries.In order to aggressively protect our intellectual property throughout the world, we have a program of patent disclosures and filings in markets where we conduct significant business. While we believe this program is reasonable and adequate, the risk of loss is inherent in litigation as different legal systems offer different levels of protection to intellectual property, and it is still possible that even patented technologies may not be protected absolutely from infringement. Pending and future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us.We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation. We are currently pursuing intellectual property infringement claims described in more detail under Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Note 10- Commitments and Contingencies to our fiscal 2014 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Intellectual property litigation is expensive, complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Patent litigation may result in adverse outcomes and could significantly divert the attention of our technical and management personnel. We sell our products in certain emerging economies. There are risks with doing business in emerging economies, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. These economies tend to have less mature product regulatory systems, and more volatile financial markets. In addition, the government controlled health care system's ability to invest in our products and systems may abruptly shift due to changing government priorities or funding capacity. Our ability to sell products in these economies is dependent upon our ability to hire qualified employees or agents to represent our products locally, and our ability to obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a less mature regulatory environment. If we are unable to retain qualified representatives or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be able to continue to sell products in these markets. We are exposed to a higher degree of financial risk, if we extend credit to customers in these economies.In many of the international markets in which we do business, including certain parts of Europe, South America, the Middle East, Russia and Asia, our employees, agents or distributors offer to sell our products in response to public tenders issued by various governmental agencies. There is additional risk in selling our products through agents or distributors, particularly in public tenders. If they misrepresent our products, do not provide appropriate service and delivery, or commit a violation of local or U.S. law, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to fines, sanctions or both.We have a complex international supply chain which includes key sole source suppliers. We have a complex international supply chain which involves integrating key suppliers and our manufacturing capacity into a global movement of components and finished goods. 14Table of ContentsWe have certain key suppliers, JMS Co. Ltd., Kawasumi Laboratories and Sanmina Corporation, who have their own complex supply chains. JMS and Kawasumi make certain finished goods and important sub components in locations throughout Asia. We have engaged Sanmina to be the sole manufacturer of certain equipment as part of our manufacturing network optimization activities. Any disruption to one or more of our suppliers’ production or delivery of sufficient volumes of subcomponents conforming to our specifications could disrupt or delay our ability to deliver finished products to our customers. For example, we purchase components in Asia for use in manufacturing in the United States, Puerto Rico, Mexico and Scotland. We also regularly ship finished goods from the United States, Puerto Rico, Mexico and Scotland to Europe and Asia.Plastics are the principal component of our disposables, which are the main source of our revenues. Any change in the price, composition or availability of the plastics we purchase could adversely affect our business.We have three risks with this key raw material: price, composition and availability.Increases in the price of petroleum derivatives could result in corresponding increases in our costs to procure plastic raw materials. Increases in the costs of other commodities may affect our procurement costs to a lesser degree.The composition of the plastic we purchase is also important. Today, we purchase plastics which contain DEHP. Should plastics with DEHP become unavailable due to regulatory changes, we may be required to obtain new FDA or foreign approvals for a number of products.While we have not experienced shortages in the past, any interruption in the supply for certain plastics could have a material impact on our business by limiting our ability to manufacture and sell the products which represent a significant portion of our revenues.The technologies that support our products are the subject of active patent prosecution. There is a risk that one or more of our products may be determined to infringe a patent held by another party. If this were to occur we may be subject to an injunction or to payment of royalties, or both, which may adversely affect our ability to market the affected product(s). In addition, competitors may patent technological advances which may give them a competitive advantage or create barriers to entry.Our products are made with materials which are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. Environmental regulations may prohibit the use of certain compounds in products we market and sell in regulated markets. If we are unable to substitute suitable materials into our processes, our manufacturing operations may be disrupted. In addition, we may be obligated to disclose the origin of certain materials used in our products, including but not limited to, metals mined from locations which have been the site of human rights violations.We are entrusted with sensitive personal information relating to surgical patients, blood donors, employees and other persons in the course of operating our business and serving our customers. Government agencies require that we implement measures to ensure the integrity and security of such personal data and, in the event of a breach of protocol, we inform affected individuals. If our systems are not properly designed or implemented, or should suffer a breach of security or an intrusion (e.g., “hacking”) by unauthorized persons, the Company’s reputation could be harmed, and it could incur costs and liabilities to affected persons and enforcement agencies.We operate in an industry susceptible to significant product liability claims. Our products are relied upon by medical personnel in connection with the treatment of patients and the collection of blood from donors. In the event that patients or donors sustain injury or death in connection with their condition or treatment, we, along with others, may be sued, and whether or not we are ultimately determined to be liable, we may incur significant legal expenses. These claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief on their own behalf or purporting to represent a class. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us in the future based on events we are not aware of at the present time. In addition, such litigation could damage our reputation and, therefore, impair our ability to market our products and obtain professional or product liability insurance. This causes the premiums for such insurances to increase. As such, we carry product liability coverage. While we believe that current coverage is sufficient, there is no assurance that such coverage will be adequate to cover incurred liabilities. Moreover, we may be unable to obtain acceptable product and professional liability coverage.15Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.