Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 15 and 46. If we are unable to successfully expand our business, through internal research and development, marketing partnerships and acquisitions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Promising partnerships and acquisitions may not be completed for reasons such as competition among prospective partners or buyers, our inability to reach satisfactory terms, or the need for regulatory approvals. Any acquisition that we complete may be dilutive to earnings and require that we invest significant resources. We may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our existing business, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated market growth or cost savings. The current economic environment may constrain the company’s ability to access capital that may be needed for acquisitions and other capital investments. If we are unable to successfully keep pace with technological advances in the medical field and the standards for transfusion medicine, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. The success of our products will depend upon our ability to anticipate and meet the needs of the medical field, particularly those who practice transfusion medicine. Additionally, we must be able to 14 Table of Contents manufacture the products in a cost effective manner, with high quality and obtain permission to market and sell the products from various regulatory authorities. As a medical device manufacturer we are subject to a number of existing laws and regulations. Non-compliance with those laws or regulations could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other non-United States regulatory bodies. Some regulatory authorities outside the United States may have a bias in favor of locally produced goods that could delay or prevent our achieving regulatory approval to market our products in such geographies. We must obtain specific regulatory clearance prior to selling any new product or service, and our operations are also subject to continuous review and monitoring by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. The process of obtaining approval to market and distribute our products is costly and time-consuming. Export of U.S. technology or goods manufactured in the United States to some jurisdictions requires special U.S. export authorization that may be influenced by factors, including political dynamics, outside our control. Changes in privacy regulations and other developments in human subjects clinical trials could make it more difficult and more expensive to conduct clinical trials necessary for product approval. Regulations about the use of certain materials in the manufacture of our products could also require us to convert our production to alternate material(s), which may be more costly or less effective. The number of eligible blood donors is influenced by government regulations (including travel restrictions, health history, etc.) and other economic and sociological factors. Changes in donation related regulations could have significant immediate effects on the population of eligible donors. We are subject to various actions by government authorities that regulate medical devices including: product recalls, orders to cease manufacturing or distribution activities, and other taxes, sanctions or penalties. Compliance with these regulations is costly and additional regulation could adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers are also subject to these regulations. Our customers’ compliance with applicable regulations could also affect our results of operations. Our hospital products are used in surgical procedures that are the subject of reimbursement to certain of our customers by third party payors, including governmental programs. Changes in the reimbursement guidelines could affect our product revenues. Marketing practices for these products are strictly regulated and violations may subject the Company to fines and other penalties. Recently, legislation was enacted in the U.S. which imposes a 2.3% excise tax on U.S. sales of medical devices beginning in January 2013. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources. Their greater financial resources may allow them to more rapidly develop new technologies and more quickly address changes in customer requirements. Although no one company competes with us across our full line of products, we face competition in each of our product lines. Our ability to remain competitive depends on a combination of factors, including those within our control (reputation, regulatory approvals, patents, unpatented proprietary know-how in several technological areas, product quality, safety, cost effectiveness and continued rigorous documentation of clinical performance) as well as factors outside of our control (regulatory standards, medical standards, reimbursement policies and practices, and the practice of medicine). Also, sales of unauthorized copies of our products by local competitors in China could affect the demand and price paid for our products. As a global corporation, we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. International revenues account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue expanding our presence in international markets. In fiscal year 2010, our international revenues accounted for 52.9% of our total revenues. The exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes different forms. Reported revenues for sales made in foreign currencies by our international businesses, when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services sold by us into international markets, where payment for our products and services is made in local currencies. Plastics are the principal component of our disposables, which are the main source of our revenues. Increases in the price of petroleum derivatives could result in corresponding increases in our costs to procure 15 Table of Contents plastic raw materials. Increases in the costs of other commodities may affect our procurement costs to a lesser degree. Loss of a significant customer could adversely affect our business. The Japan Red Cross Society (JRC) is a significant customer that represented 14.3% of our revenues in fiscal year 2010. Because of the size of this relationship we could experience a significant reduction in revenue if the JRC decided to significantly reduce its purchases from us for any reason including a desire to rebalance its purchases between vendors, or if we are unable to obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals in Japan. We also have a concentration of credit risk due to our outstanding accounts receivable balances with the JRC. We are subject to the risks of international economic and political conditions. Our international operations are subject to risks which are inherent in conducting business overseas and under foreign laws, regulations and customs. These risks include possible nationalization, expropriation, importation limitations, violations of U.S. or local laws, pricing restrictions, and other restrictive governmental actions. Any significant changes in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we conduct international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to the risks associated with communicable diseases. A significant outbreak of a disease could reduce the demand for our products and affect our ability to provide our customers with products and services. An eligible donor’s willingness to donate is affected by concerns about their personal health and safety. Concerns about communicable diseases (such as pandemic flu, SARS, or HIV) could reduce the number of donors, and accordingly reduce the demand for our products for a period of time. A significant outbreak of a disease could also affect our employees’ ability to work, which could limit our ability to produce product and service our customers. We sell our products in certain emerging economies. Emerging economies have less mature product regulatory systems, and can have more volatile financial markets. In addition, government controlled health care systems’ willingness or ability to invest in our products and systems may abruptly change due to changing government priorities or funding capacity. Our ability to sell products in these economies is dependent upon our ability to hire qualified employees or agents to represent our products locally, and our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals in a less mature regulatory environment. If we are unable to retain qualified representatives or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals, we will not be able to continue to sell products in these markets. We are exposed to a higher degree of financial risk, if we extend credit to customers in these economies. In many of the international markets in which we do business, including certain parts of Europe, Russia and Asia, our employees, agents or distributors offer to sell our products in response to public tenders issued by various governmental agencies. Selling our products through agents or distributors, particularly in public tenders, can expose the Company to a higher degree of risk. Our agents and distributors are third parties who we retain to work in developing markets. We retain these agents or distributors after completing due diligence on their capabilities and background. However, agents and distributors are independent third parties. If they misrepresent our products, do not provide appropriate service and delivery, or commit a violation of local or U.S. law, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to fines, sanctions or both. We also conduct diligent examinations of businesses we have targeted for acquisition or other business combinations. However, confidentiality obligations and compressed timeframes for completing these examinations may constrain our ability to fully discover and resolve all risks attendant to the operation of the target’s business until after closing of the transaction. We have a complex international supply chain. Any disruption to one or more of our suppliers’ production or delivery of sufficient volumes of subcomponents conforming to our specifications could disrupt or delay our ability to deliver finished products to our customers. There is a risk that the Company’s IP may be subject to misappropriation in some countries. Certain countries, particularly China, do not enforce compliance with laws that protect intellectual property (“IP”) rights with the same degree of vigor as is available under the U.S. and European systems of justice. Further, 16 Table of Contents certain of the Company’s IP rights are not registered in China, or if they were, have since expired. This may permit others to produce copies of products in China that are not covered by currently valid patent registrations. There is also a risk that such products may be exported from China to other countries. The technologies that cover our products are the subject of active patent prosecution. There is a risk that one or more of our products may be determined to infringe a patent held by another party. If this were to occur we may be subject to an injunction or to payment of royalties, or both, which may adversely affect our ability to market the affected product(s). In addition, competitors may patent technological advances which may give them a competitive advantage or create barriers to entry. Our products are made with materials which are subject to regulation by governmental agencies. Environmental regulations may prohibit the use of certain compounds in products we market and sell into regulated markets. If we are unable to substitute suitable materials into our processes, our manufacturing operations may be disrupted. We are entrusted with sensitive personal information relating to surgical patients, blood donors, employees and other persons in the course of operating our business and serving our customers, Government agencies require that we implement measures to ensure the integrity and security of such personal data and, in the event of a breach of protocol, that we inform affected individuals. If our systems were not properly implemented, or should suffer a breach of security or an intrusion (e.g., “hacking”) by unauthorized persons, the Company’s reputation could be harmed, and it could incur costs and liabilities to affected persons and enforcement agencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 