Risk factors The risk factors and the cautionary statements contained in the section entitled “Introduction” on page 3 should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements contained in Philips’ Annual Report on Form 20-F. Forward-looking statements can be identified generally as those containing words such as “anticipates”, “assumes”, “believes”, “estimates”, “expects”, “should”, “will”, “will likely result”, “forecast”, “outlook”, “projects”, “may” or similar expressions. From time to time, Philips may also provide oral or written forward-looking statements in other materials Philips releases to the public. The cautionary statements contained in “Introduction” are deemed to apply to these statements. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer material adverse effects due to certain risks. We have described below the main risks known to Philips and summarized them in four categories: Strategic risks, Operational risks, Compliance risks, and Financial risks. Strategic risks are threats and opportunities that influence Philips’ strategic ambitions. Operational risks include adverse unexpected developments resulting from internal processes, people and systems, or from external events that are linked to the actual running of each business (examples are solution and product creation, and supply chain management). Compliance risks cover unanticipated failures to enact, or comply with, appropriate policies and procedures. Within the area of Financial risks, Philips identifies risks related to Treasury, Accounting and reporting, Pensions and Tax. The risks described below and in pages 106 through 112 of the 2009 Annual report are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could ultimately have a major impact on Philips’ businesses, objectives, revenues, income, assets, liquidity, and capital resources. Philips describes the risk factors within each risk category in order of Philips’ current view of expected significance, to give stakeholders an insight into which risks it considers more prominent than others at present. Describing risk factors in their order of expected significance within each risk category does not mean that a lower listed risk factor may not have a material and adverse impact on Philips’ business, strategic objectives, revenues, income, assets, liquidity or capital resources. Furthermore, a risk factor described after other risk factors may ultimately prove to have more significant adverse consequences than those other risk factors. Over time Philips may change its view as to the relative significance of each risk factor. Philips does not classify the risk categories themselves in order of importance. Strategic risks As Philips’ business is global, its operations are exposed to economic and political developments in countries across the world that could adversely impact its revenues and income. Philips’ business environment is influenced by economic conditions globally and in individual countries where Philips conducts business. In 2009, the global economic situation continued to worsen, leading to a decline in consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment and reduced levels of capital expenditure, resulting in lower demand and more challenging market environments across our Sectors. Political developments, for example the pending US Healthcare reform, have also introduced significant uncertainties that may adversely affect the sectors in 2010. Although in recent months, certain indices and economic data have began to show first signs of stabilization in the macroeconomic environment, there can be no assurance that these improvements will be broad-based and sustainable, nor is it clear how, if at all, they will affect the markets relevant to Philips. Numerous other factors, such as fluctuation of energy and raw material prices, as well as global political conflicts, including the Middle East and other regions, could continue to impact macroeconomic factors and the international capital and credit markets. Economic and political uncertainty may have a material adverse impact on Philips’ financial condition or results of operations and can also make Philips’ budgeting and forecasting more difficult. Philips may encounter difficulty in planning and managing operations due to unfavorable political factors, including unexpected legal or regulatory changes such as foreign exchange import or export controls, increased healthcare regulation, nationalization of assets or restrictions on the repatriation of returns from foreign investments and the lack of adequate infrastructure. As emerging markets are becoming increasingly important in Philips’ operations, the above-mentioned risks are also expected to grow and could have an adverse impact on Philips’ financial condition and operating results. 8 Table of Contents Philips may be unable to adapt swiftly to changes in industry or market circumstances, which could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results. Fundamental shifts in the industry or market, like the transition from traditional lighting to LED lighting, may drastically change the business environment. If Philips is unable to recognize these changes in good time, or is too inflexible to rapidly adjust its business models, growth ambitions and financial results could be affected materially. Acquisitions could expose Philips to integration risks and challenge management in continuing to reduce the complexity of the company. Philips has recently completed acquisitions, and may continue to do so in the future, exposing Philips to integration risks in areas such as sales and service force integration, logistics, regulatory compliance, information technology and finance. Integration difficulties and complexity may adversely impact the realization of an increased contribution from acquisitions. Philips may incur significant acquisition, administrative and other costs in connection with these transactions, including costs related to the integration of acquired businesses. Furthermore, organizational simplification and resulting cost savings may be difficult to achieve. Acquisitions may also lead to a substantial increase in long-lived assets, including goodwill. Write-downs of these assets due to unforeseen business developments may materially and adversely affect Philips’ earnings, particularly in Healthcare and Lighting which have significant amounts of goodwill. Please also refer to note 15 “Goodwill” to the Group financial statements on page 187 of the 2009 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Philips’ inability to secure and retain intellectual property rights for products, whilst maintaining overall competitiveness, could have a material adverse effect on its results. Philips is dependent on its ability to obtain and retain licenses and other intellectual property (IP) rights covering its products and its design and manufacturing processes. The IP portfolio results from an extensive patenting process that could be influenced by, amongst other things, innovation. The value of the IP portfolio is dependent on the successful promotion and market acceptance of standards developed or co-developed by Philips. This is particularly applicable to Consumer Lifestyle where third-party licenses are important and a loss or impairment could negatively impact Philips’ results. Philips’ ongoing investments in the “sense and simplicity” brand campaign, with a focus on simplifying the interaction with its customers, translating awareness into preference and improving its international brand recognition, could have less impact than anticipated. Philips has made large investments in the reshaping of the Group into a more market-driven company focusing on delivering advanced and easy-to-use products and easy relationships with Philips for its customers. The brand promise of “sense and simplicity” is important for both external and internal development. If Philips fails to deliver on its “sense and simplicity” promise, its growth opportunities may be hampered, which could have a material adverse effect on Philips’ revenue and income. Philips’ overall performance in the coming years is dependent on realizing its growth ambitions in emerging markets. Emerging markets are becoming increasingly important in the global market. In addition, Asia is an important production, sourcing and design center for Philips. Philips faces strong competition to attract the best talent in tight labor markets and intense competition from local companies as well as other global players for market share in emerging markets. Philips needs to maintain and grow its position in emerging markets, invest in local talents, understand developments in end-user preferences and localize the portfolio in order to stay competitive. If Philips fails to achieve this, its growth ambition and financial results could be affected materially. 9 Table of Contents Operational risks Failure to achieve improvements in Philips’ solution and product creation process and/or increased speed in innovation-to-market could hamper Philips’ profitable growth ambitions. Further improvements in Philips’ solution and product creation process, ensuring timely delivery of new solutions and products at lower cost and upgrading of customer service levels to create sustainable competitive advantages, are important in realizing Philips’ profitable growth ambitions. The emergence of new low-cost competitors, particularly in Asia, further underlines the importance of improvements in the product creation process. The success of new solution and product creation, however, depends on a number of factors, including timely and successful completion of development efforts, market acceptance, Philips’s ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp-up issues, the availability of products in the right quantities and at appropriate costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products and services may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, Philips cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect that new solutions and product creations will have on its financial condition and operating results. If Philips fails to accelerate its innovation-to-market processes and fails to ensure that end-user insights are fully captured and translated into solution and product creations that improve product mix and consequently contribution, it may face an erosion of its market share and competitiveness, which could have a material adverse affect on its results. If Philips is unable to ensure effective supply chain management, it may be unable to sustain its competitiveness in its markets. Philips is continuing the process of creating a leaner supply base with fewer suppliers, while maintaining dual sourcing strategies where possible. This strategy very much requires close cooperation with suppliers to enhance, amongst other things, time to market and quality. In addition, Philips is continuing its initiatives to reduce assets through outsourcing. These processes may result in increased dependency. Although Philips works closely with its suppliers to avoid supply-related problems, there can be no assurance that it will not encounter supply problems in the future or that it will be able to replace a supplier that is not able to meet its demand. Shortages or delays could materially harm its business. Philips maintains a regular review of its strategic and critical suppliers to assess financial stability. Philips’ supply chain is also exposed to fluctuations in energy and raw material prices. In recent times, commodities such as oil have been subject to volatile markets and significant price increases from time to time. If Philips is not able to compensate for or pass on its increased costs to customers, such price increases could have a material adverse impact on its financial results. Most of Philips’ activities are conducted outside of the Netherlands, and international operations bring challenges. For example, production and procurement of products and parts in Asian countries are increasing, and this creates a risk that production and shipping of products and parts could be interrupted by a natural disaster in that region. Due to the fact that Philips is dependent on its personnel for leadership and specialized skills, the loss of its ability to attract and retain such personnel would have an adverse effect on its business. The retention of talented employees in sales and marketing, research and development, finance and general management, as well as of highly specialized technical personnel, especially in transferring technologies to low-cost countries, is critical to Philips’ success. The loss of specialized skills could also result in business interruptions. Diversity in information technology (IT) could result in ineffective or inefficient business management. IT outsourcing and off-shoring strategies could result in complexities in service delivery and contract management. Furthermore, we observe a global increase in IT security threats and higher levels of professionalism in computer crime, posing a risk to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data and information. Philips is engaged in a continuous drive to create a more open, standardized and, consequently, more cost-effective IT landscape. This is leading to an approach involving further outsourcing, off-shoring, commoditization and ongoing reduction in the number of IT systems. The global increase in security threats and higher levels of professionalism in computer crime have raised the company’s awareness of the importance of effective IT security measures, including proper identity management processes to protect against unauthorized systems access. The integration of new companies and successful outsourcing of business processes are highly dependent on secure and well-controlled IT systems. 10 Table of Contents Warranty and product liability claims against Philips could cause Philips to incur significant costs and affect Philips ’results as well as its reputation and relationships with key customers. Philips is from time to time subject to warranty and product liability claims with regard to product performance and effects. Philips could incur product liability losses as a result of repair and replacement costs in response to customer complaints or in connection with the resolution of contemplated or actual legal proceedings relating to such claims. In addition to potential losses arising from claims and related legal proceedings, product liability claims could affect Philips’ reputation and its relationships with key customers, both customers for end products and customers that use Philips’ products in their production process. As a result, product liability claims could materially impact Philips’ financial position and results. Any damage to Philips’ reputation could have an adverse effect on its businesses. Philips is exposed to developments which could affect its reputation. Such developments could be of an environmental or social nature, or connected to the behavior of individual employees or suppliers and could relate to adherence with regulations related to labor, health and safety, environmental and chemical management. Reputational damage could materially impact Philips’ financial position and results. Compliance risks Legal proceedings covering a range of matters are pending in various jurisdictions against Philips and its current and former group companies. Due to the uncertainty inherent in legal proceedings, it is difficult to predict the final outcome. Adverse outcomes might impact Philips’ financial position and results. Philips, including a certain number of its current and former group companies, is involved in legal proceedings relating to such matters as competition issues, commercial transactions, product liability, participations and environmental pollution. Since the ultimate outcome of asserted claims and proceedings, or the impact of any claims that may be asserted in the future, cannot be predicted with certainty, Philips’ financial position and results of operations could be affected materially by adverse outcomes. For additional disclosure relating to specific legal proceedings, reference is made to note 24 “Contingent Liabilities” to the Group financial statements on pages 195 through 197 of the 2009 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Philips is exposed to governmental investigations and legal proceedings with regard to increased scrutiny of possible anti-competitive market practices. Philips is facing increased scrutiny by national and European authorities of possible anti-competitive market practices, especially in product segments where Philips has significant market shares. For example, Philips and certain of its (former) affiliates are involved in investigations by competition law authorities in several jurisdictions into possible anti-competitive activities in the Cathode-Ray Tubes (CRT) industry and are engaged in litigation in this respect. Philips’ financial position and results could be materially affected by an adverse final outcome of these investigations and litigation, as well as any potential claims relating to this matter. Furthermore, increased scrutiny may hamper planned growth opportunities provided by potential acquisitions. Reference is made to note 24 “Contingent Liabilities” to the Group financial statements on pages 195 through 197 of the 2009 Annual Report which is incorporated herein by reference. Philips’ global presence exposes the company to regional and local regulatory rules which may interfere with the realization of business opportunities and investments in the countries in which Philips operates. Philips has established subsidiaries in over 60 countries. These subsidiaries are exposed to changes in governmental regulations and unfavorable political developments, which may limit the realization of business opportunities or impair Philips’ local investments. Philips’ increased focus on the healthcare sector increases the exposure to highly regulated markets, where obtaining clearances or approvals for new products is of great importance, and the dependency on the funding available for healthcare systems. In addition, changes in reimbursement policies may affect spending on healthcare. Philips is exposed to non-compliance with general business principles. Philips’ attempts to realize its growth targets could expose it to the risk of non-compliance with Philips General Business Principles. This risk is heightened in emerging markets as corporate governance systems, including information structures and the monitoring of ethical standards are less developed in emerging markets compared to mature markets. Examples include commission payments to third parties, remuneration payments to agents, distributors, commissioners and the like (’Agents’), or the acceptance of gifts, which may be considered in some markets to be normal local business practice. 11 Table of Contents Defective internal controls would adversely affect our financial reporting and management process. The reliability of reporting is important in ensuring that management decisions for steering the businesses and managing both top-line and bottom-line growth are based on top-quality data. Flaws in internal control systems could adversely affect the financial position and results and hamper expected growth. The correctness of disclosures provides investors and other market professionals with significant information for a better understanding of Philips’ businesses. Imperfections or lack of clarity in the disclosures could create market uncertainty regarding the reliability of the data presented and could have a negative impact on the Philips share price. The reliability of revenue and expenditure data is key for steering the business and for managing top-line and bottom-line growth. The long lifecycle of healthcare sales, from order acceptance to accepted installation, together with the complexity of the accounting rules for when revenue can be recognized in the accounts presents a challenge to ensure there is consistency of application of the accounting rules over Philips Healthcare’s global business. Compliance procedures have been adopted by management to ensure that the use of resources is consistent with laws, regulations and policies, and that resources are safeguarded against waste, loss and misuse. Ineffective compliance procedures relating to the use of resources could have an adverse effect on the financial results. Philips is exposed to non-compliance with data privacy and product safety laws. Philips’ brand image and reputation would be adversely impacted by non-compliance with the various (patient) data privacy and (medical) product safety laws. Privacy and product safety issues may arise with respect to remote access or monitoring of patient data or loss of data on customers’ systems. Philips Healthcare is further subject to various data privacy and safety laws. Privacy and product security issues may arise, especially with respect to remote access or monitoring of patient data or loss of data on our customers’ systems, although Philips Healthcare contractually limits liability where permitted. Philips Healthcare operates in a highly regulated product safety and quality environment. Philips Healthcare’s products are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the FDA (US) and comparable foreign agencies. Obtaining their approvals is costly and time- consuming, but a prerequisite for market introduction. A delay or inability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for new products could have a material adverse effect on its business. The risk exists that product safety incidents or user concerns could trigger FDA business reviews which if failed could lead to business interruption. Financial risks Philips is exposed to a variety of treasury risks including liquidity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, equity price risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, country risk and other insurable risk. During 2008 Philips re-financed a significant proportion of its long-term debt commitments, thereby significantly has extended the overall maturity profile of its funding. Furthermore, additional credit lines were arranged to act as additional back-up for the liquidity needs of the group. Further negative developments impacting the global liquidity markets may affect the ability to raise or refinance debt in the capital markets, or could also lead to significant increases in the cost of such borrowing in the future. If the market expected or actual downgrade(s) taken place by the rating agencies, it may increase our cost of borrowing, may reduce our potential investor base and may negatively affect our businesses. Philips is a global company and as a direct consequence the financial results of the group may be impacted through currency fluctuations. The majority of the currency risk to which Philips is exposed relates to transaction exposure within the business of on-balance and forecasted foreign currency purchases or sales and translation exposure of foreign currency denominated financing positions. Philips is also exposed to interest rate risk particularly in relation to its long-term debt position; this risk can take the form of either fair value or cash flow risk. Failure to effectively hedge this risk can impact Philips’ financial results. Philips is exposed to equity price risk through holdings in publicly listed and other companies. A downturn in equity markets can materially impact the realizable value of such securities and can lead to material financial losses and impairment charges for the Group. 12 Table of Contents Credit risk of counterparties that have outstanding payment obligations creates exposure for Philips, particularly in relation to accounts receivable and liquid assets and fair values of derivatives and insurance contracts with financial counterparties. A default by counterparties in such transactions can have a material and adverse effect on Philips’ financial condition. For further analysis, reference is made to the information under the heading “Details of treasury risks” on pages 112 through 116 of the 2009 Annual Report. Philips has defined-benefit pension plans in a number of countries. The funded status and the cost of maintaining these plans are influenced by financial market and demographic developments, creating volatility in Philips’ financials. The majority of employees in Europe and North America are covered by defined-benefit pension plans. The accounting for defined-benefit pension plans requires management to determine discount rates, expected rates of compensation and expected returns on plan assets. Changes in these variables can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs. A negative performance of the financial markets could have a material impact on funding requirements and net periodic pension costs and also affect the value of certain financial assets and liabilities of the company. For further analysis of pension-related exposure to changes in financial markets, reference is made to the information under the heading “Details of pension risks” on pages 116 through 118 and for quantitative and qualitative disclosure of pensions, please refer to note 18 “Pensions and other postretirement benefits” to the Group financial statements on pages 189 through 193 of the 2009 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Philips is exposed to a number of different fiscal uncertainties which could have a significant impact on local tax results. Philips is exposed to a number of different tax uncertainties which could result in double taxation, penalties and interest payments. These include, amongst others, transfer pricing uncertainties on internal cross-border deliveries of goods and services, tax uncertainties related to acquisitions and divestments, tax uncertainties related to the use of tax credits and permanent establishments, and tax uncertainties due to losses carried forward and tax credits carried forward. Those uncertainties may have a significant impact on local tax results. For further details, reference is made to the information under the heading “Details of fiscal risks” on pages 118 through 119 of the 2009 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. 13 Table of Contents 