ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We have received an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm which casts doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The opinion includes an explanatory paragraph indicating that our working capital deficiency, non-compliance with our current ratio covenant under our bank credit facilities and violation of a provision of the certificate of designation of the Series D and Series E Convertible Preferred Stock, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The "going concern" opinion may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. - 9 - We are in violation of the current ratio covenant under our bank credit facilities, which could result in the acceleration of the amounts due under the bank credit facilities and the demand of redemption rights under our Series D and Series E Convertible Preferred Stock. Our current ratio as defined in our bank credit facilities was approximately 0.55 to 1 at year-end 2008 before reclassifications due to the covenant violation in violation of the current ratio covenant of our bank credit facilities, which requires a ratio of 1 to 1. In accordance with our bank credit facilities, our lenders have the right to declare all or any part of the unpaid principal and accrued interest under the bank credit facilities immediately due and payable. In accordance with the Certificates of Designations, the holders of our preferred stock have the right to demand redemption of their shares of preferred stock, and the holder of 34,409 shares of Series D and 15,000 shares of Series E preferred stock has demanded redemption of those shares. In accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, all of our bank debt and our remaining preferred stock, after the January 2009 conversions, has been reclassified to current liabilities. While our lenders have not informed us of intent to exercise their right to accelerate the payment schedule on the debt at this time, we have no assurance that they will not elect to do so. In addition, as a result of such default the lenders have terminated their commitments to make additional loans and participate in the issuance of letters of credit under the bank credit facilities. If the lenders demand immediate repayment of our outstanding borrowings under the bank credit facilities, we do not currently have means to repay or refinance the amounts that would be due. If we failed to repay the amounts due under the bank credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their remedies under the bank credit facilities, including foreclosing on substantially all our assets which we pledged as collateral to secure our obligations under the bank credit facilities. These circumstances could require us to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Inadequate liquidity will affect our ability to meet our short-term cash commitments and could materially and adversely affect our business operations in the future and require us to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Our efforts to improve our liquidity position will be challenging given the current economic climate. Current economic fundamentals portray a negative outlook for the oil and natural gas exploration and development business for at least a significant portion of 2009 due to extremely low and volatile oil and natural gas prices coupled with a global recession that is projected to be the longest and most severe in the post war period. These economic conditions have resulted in a decline in our revenues and available capital, and have caused us to significantly decrease our drilling activities and operations. Moreover, the full impact of many of the actions that we have taken to improve our liquidity will not be realized until late 2009 at the earliest, even if they are successfully implemented. As a result of our violation of the current ratio covenant under our bank credit facilities, we do not have the ability to borrow any additional amounts under our bank credit facilities. As a result of the unprecedented volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, it is unlikely that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the near term. Significant vendor obligations and our inability to pay our vendors on a timely basis may have an adverse effect on our ability to secure their future services. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding trade payables of $49.7 million, of which approximately $4.1 million was 60 days or more past due. Failure to timely pay vendors could result in liens filed against our properties or withdrawal of trade credit provided by vendors, which would limit our availability to conduct operations. Until our past due vendor obligations are fully satisfied and we become current, there remains significant risk that these vendors will take formal collection actions against us, pursue liens or other legal actions, or potentially force us into involuntary bankruptcy. Additionally, our inability to satisfy our vendor obligations on a timely basis may result in irreparable harm to our relationships with them and their willingness to continue to do business with us in the future, under terms that would be acceptable to us. We may be required to make advance payments for services, and some critical and/or uniquely qualified vendors may refuse to continue to do business with us, which would worsen our liquidity challenges and potentially prevent us from meeting our drilling and other operating obligations, and would result in material adverse consequences to us. Our revolving credit facility has borrowing base restrictions, which could adversely affect our operations. Our revolving credit facility limits the amounts we can borrow to certain borrowing base amounts, determined by our lenders in their sole discretion, based upon, among other things, our level of proved reserves and the projected revenues from the oil and natural gas properties securing our loans. The agent, upon request of lenders holding 66 2/3% of the revolving commitments, can unilaterally adjust the borrowing base and, accordingly, the borrowings permitted to be outstanding under the revolving credit facility, provided, that such request cannot be made more than once in any six-month borrowing base calculation period. Any increase in the borrowing base requires the consent of all lenders. Upon a downward adjustment of the borrowing base, if borrowings in excess of the revised borrowing base are outstanding, we could be forced to repay our indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base under the revolving credit facility if we do not have any substantial unpledged properties to pledge as additional collateral. We may not have sufficient funds to make such repayments under our bank credit facilities. Our lenders are scheduled to perform a redetermination of our borrowing base in April or May 2009. - 10 - General economic conditions could continue to adversely impact our results of operations. A lengthy continuation of the slowdown in the U.S. economy or other economic conditions affecting capital markets, such as declining oil and natural gas prices, failing or weakened financial institutions, inflation, deteriorating business conditions, interest rates and tax rates, will adversely affect our business and financial condition further by reducing overall public confidence in our financial strength, by causing us to curtail planned drilling activities or by causing the oil field service sector of the domestic oil and natural gas industry to reduce equipment, labor and services that would otherwise be available to us. Further, some of our properties are operated by third parties whom we depend upon for timely performance of drilling and other contractual obligations and, in some cases, for distribution to us of our proportionate share of revenues from sales of oil and natural gas the properties produce. If current economic conditions adversely impact our third party operators, we are exposed to the risk that drilling operations or revenue disbursements to us could be delayed. This "trickle down" effect would significantly harm our business, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. The consequences of a recession include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. The lower level of economic activity has resulted in a decline in energy consumption, which combined with the significant decrease in oil and natural gas prices, has materially adversely affected, and will continue to materially adversely affect our revenue, liquidity and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also affects the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. These events increase our vulnerability to further adverse general economic consequences and industry conditions and the likelihood that our cash flows and financial condition will be materially adversely affected as a result thereof. In addition, the instability and uncertainty in the financial markets have made it difficult for us to follow through with drilling operations and other business activities that we had planned on implementing before the current financial crisis. Lower oil and natural gas prices, the financial markets and U.S. economy have altered our ability and willingness to continue drilling operations at a pace consistent with 2007 and 2008 levels. The economic situation could also have an impact on our customers and suppliers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us, and on our operating partners, resulting in delays in operations or failure to make required payments. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas or further reductions in the prices of oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. While the ultimate outcome and impact of the current financial crisis cannot be predicted, it has had a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Adverse capital and credit market conditions will continue to significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital, our cost of capital, and our ability to conduct our business. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing significant volatility and disruption for more than twelve months, which has exerted significant downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for substantially all companies. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and interest on our debt. Without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to further curtail our operations and sell additional assets, and our business will suffer. The principal sources of our liquidity have been cash flow from our operations, bank borrowings and proceeds from the sale of our debt and equity securities. If cash flow from operations, bank borrowings, and proceeds from any divestitures do not satisfy our minimum needs, we may have to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the exploration and production segment of the oil and natural gas industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that our lenders could develop a negative perception of our long or short-term financial prospects if the level of our business activity decreases significantly due to market downturns. Our internal sources of liquidity are currently insufficient to meet our cash needs, and the current state of the capital markets make it highly unlikely we will be able to obtain additional financing in the capital and credit markets. Given our current liquidity situation and the disruptions, uncertainty and volatility in the capital and credit markets, we have limited access to the capital required to operate our business, most significantly our drilling operations. Such lack of access to capital limits our ability to: replace, in a timely manner, oil and natural gas reserves that we produce; meet maturing liabilities; generate revenue to meet liquidity needs; and to maintain and grow our business. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. - 11 - Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic capital markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced by domestic capital markets that began in the second half of 2008 has continued and substantially increased during the first quarter of 2009. Recently, concerns over deflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil and natural gas prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and recession. In addition, capital markets have experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events, and increased probabilities of default. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us because our liquidity and ability to fund our capital expenditures is dependent in part upon our bank borrowings and access to the public capital markets. Our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. Factors such as business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. In an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower corporate earnings and lower business investment, our operations could be negatively impacted. Purchasers of our oil and natural gas production may delay or be unable to make timely payments to us. Adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. The current economic situation could also adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our oil and natural gas hedging arrangements to be ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to financial institutions, the Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict what impact such actions will have on the financial markets and whether such actions will be successful. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or the trading price of our common stock. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. The impairment of financial institutions could adversely affect us by limiting the availability of funds to us and the collectability of amounts owed to us under derivative contracts. We have exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks that we rely upon for our credit facilities. In the event of default of one or more of these counterparties, we may have exposure in that they will not be able to fulfill their obligation to lend us funds under our bank credit facilities, and the other lenders under such facilities are not obligated to make up such shortfall. We use derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including swaps, puts and collars, to manage our exposure to interest rates and oil and natural gas prices. See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for further information regarding our derivative transactions. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. Such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot provide assurance that our counterparties will honor their obligations now or in the future. Insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments required under terms of derivative instruments with us by any of our counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. At the date of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, our counterparties included Bank of Montreal, Standard Bank of London, and Amegy Bank. - 12 - Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted. As a result, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. We must do this even during periods of low oil and natural gas prices when it is difficult to raise the capital necessary to finance activities. Without successful exploration or acquisition activities, our reserves and revenues will decline. We may not be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities. Due to our current liquidity crisis, we have substantially reduced our activities related to the development and acquisition of new oil and natural gas reserves. Oil and natural gas drilling is a high-risk activity. Our future success will depend on the success of our drilling programs. In addition to the numerous operating risks described in more detail below, these activities involve the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be discovered. In addition, we are often uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and producing wells. Furthermore, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · inability to comply with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. If we experience any of these problems, our ability to conduct operations could be adversely affected. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to market oil and gas. Our ability to market oil and natural gas from our wells depends upon numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: · the level of domestic production and imports of oil and gas; · the volatility of both oil and natural gas pricing; · the proximity of natural gas production to natural gas pipelines; · the availability of pipeline capacity; · the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; · the availability of alternate fuel sources; · the effect of inclement weather; · state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas marketing; and · federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. If these factors were to change dramatically, our ability to market oil and natural gas or obtain favorable prices for our oil and natural gas could be adversely affected. The marketability of our production may be dependent upon transportation facilities over which we have no control. The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability, proximity, and capacity of oil and natural gas pipelines, crude oil trucking, natural gas gathering systems and processing facilities. Any significant change in market factors affecting these infrastructure facilities could harm our business. We transport our crude oil through pipelines and trucks that we do not own, and we deliver our natural gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. These facilities may not be available to us in the future or may become inadequate for oil and natural gas volumes produced. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in oil and natural gas prices occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008, which impacted our results for that period. If the recent low commodity price environment continues, it will have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Our future financial condition, results of operations and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production. Oil and natural gas prices historically have been volatile and likely will continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current world economic conditions. Current economic fundamentals portray a negative outlook for the oil and natural gas exploration and development business for at least a significant portion of 2009 due to extremely low and volatile oil and natural gas prices coupled with a global recession. - 13 - Our cash flow from operations is highly dependent on the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. This price volatility also affects the amount of our cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. The amount we can borrow or have outstanding under our bank credit facilities is subject to semi-annual redeterminations. Oil prices are likely to affect us more than natural gas prices because approximately 56% of our proved reserves are oil. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: · the level of consumer demand for oil and natural gas; · the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; · the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · the price of foreign oil and natural gas; · domestic governmental regulations and taxes; · the price and availability of alternative fuel sources; · weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms in and around the Gulf of Mexico; · market uncertainty; · political conditions in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East; and · worldwide economic conditions. These factors and the volatility of the energy markets generally make it extremely difficult to predict future oil and natural gas price movements with any certainty. Also, oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem. Declines in oil and natural gas prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, oil and natural gas reserves, the carrying values of our oil and natural gas properties and the amounts we can borrow under our bank credit facilities. If the oil and natural gas industry continues to experience significantly lower prices, we may, among other things, be unable to meet our financial obligations or make planned expenditures. The prices we receive for our production and sales may actually vary from prices posted for national markets and exchanges for commodities. We sell our natural gas based on the Houston Ship Channel index. We sell our oil on the Flint Hills Resources postings. These prices may vary significantly from national markets for these commodities such as NYMEX. While the disparity between these markets is not significant today, these prices have diverged in the past and could diverge in the future. We may not be able to replace our reserves or generate cash flows if we are unable to raise capital. In the past, we have made substantial capital expenditures for the exploration, exploitation, acquisition and production of oil and natural gas reserves. Historically, we have financed these expenditures primarily with cash generated by operations and proceeds from bank borrowings and equity financing. If the recent reduction in our revenues continues or worsens, or if our borrowing base decreases as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices, operating difficulties or declines in reserves, or if our lenders refuse to make credit available to us because of our current defaults under our bank credit facilities, we will not have the capital necessary to maintain our current operations or undertake or complete future drilling programs. Additional debt or equity financing or cash generated by operations may not be, and under the current capital and credit market conditions likely will not be, available to meet these requirements. We face strong competition from other energy companies that may negatively affect our ability to carry on operations. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Factors which affect our ability to successfully compete in the marketplace include, but are not limited to, the following: · the availability of funds and information relating to a property; · the standards established by us for the minimum projected return on investment; · the availability of alternate fuel sources; and · the intermediate transportation of gas. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, substantial independent energy companies, affiliates of major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and national and local natural gas gatherers. Many of these competitors possess greater financial and other resources than we do. - 14 - The inability to control associated entities could adversely affect our business. We do not operate all of our properties on our own. We may enter into partnering relationships with other entities over which we have little or no control. Because we have limited or no control over such entities, we may not be able to direct their operations, or ensure that their operations on our behalf will be completed in a timely and efficient manner. Any delays in such business entities' operations could adversely affect our operations. There are risks in acquiring producing properties. We constantly evaluate opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and frequently engage in bidding and negotiating for these acquisitions. If successful in this process, we may alter or increase our capitalization through the issuance of additional debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other measures. Any change in capitalization affects our risk profile. A change in capitalization, however, is not the only way acquisitions affect our risk profile. Acquisitions may alter the nature of our business. This could occur when the character of acquired properties is substantially different from our existing properties in terms of operating or geologic characteristics. Operating hazards may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including, but not limited to, the following: · blowouts; · cratering; · explosions; · uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; · fires; · pollution; and · other environmental risks. These risks could result in substantial losses to us from injury and loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. Governmental regulations may impose liability for pollution damage or result in the interruption or termination of operations. If losses and liabilities from drilling and operating activities are not deemed fully covered by our insurance policies, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Although we maintain several types of insurance to cover our operations, we may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, or losses may exceed the maximum limits under our insurance policies. If a significant event that is not fully insured or indemnified occurs, it could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental and other government regulations could be costly and could negatively impact production. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, these laws and regulations may: · require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences; · restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; · require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and · impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. The enactment of stricter legislation or the adoption of stricter regulation could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as on the oil and natural gas industry in general. - 15 - Our operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. We could also be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for our operations, but we do not believe that insurance coverage for environmental damages that occur over time or complete coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose the privilege to continue exploration or production activities upon substantial portions of our properties if certain environmental damages occur. You should not place undue reliance on reserve information because reserve information represents estimates. While estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves, and future net cash flows attributable to those reserves, were prepared by independent petroleum engineers, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and cash flows from such reserves, including factors beyond our control and the control of engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that can not be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to these reserves, is a function of many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · the available data; · assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices; · estimates of future production rates; · expenditures for future development and exploitation activities; and · engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Reserves and future cash flows may also be subject to material downward or upward revisions based upon production history, development and exploitation activities and oil and natural gas prices. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses, quantities of recoverable reserves and value of cash flows from those reserves may vary significantly from the estimates. In addition, reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. For the reserve calculations, oil was converted to natural gas equivalent at six mcf of natural gas for one Bbl of oil. This ratio approximates the energy equivalency of natural gas to oil on a Btu basis. However, it may not represent the relative prices received from the sale of our oil and natural gas production. The estimated quantities of proved reserves and the discounted present value of future net cash flows attributable to those reserves included in this document were prepared by independent petroleum engineers in accordance with the rules of the SFAS No. 69 and the SEC. These estimates are not intended to represent the fair market value of our reserves. The future net cash flows are based upon the prices received on December 31 of each year. During 2008, the SEC approved new rules related to the estimation of reserves. These new rules are effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. These rules change, among other things, the prices to be used for estimation of reserves, from a year-end price to an average price for the prior 12 months, and remove the prohibition against counting as reserves future production of oil or natural gas related to unconventional reservoirs such as coal-bed methane, oil sands and shales. Loss of executive officers or other key employees could adversely affect our business. Our success is dependent upon the continued services and skills of our current executive management and other key employees. The loss of services of any of these key personnel could have a negative impact on our business because of such personnel's skills and industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. The uncertainties resulting from the recently announced strategic alternatives review could result in one or more of our key employees choosing to find employment elsewhere. Our use of hedging arrangements could result in financial losses or reduce our income. We sometimes engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including, without limitation, when: · production is less than expected; · the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on our contract obligations; or · there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices received. In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for oil and natural gas. - 16 - Acquisition of entire businesses may be a component of our growth strategy; our failure to complete future acquisitions successfully could reduce our earnings and slow our growth. We completed a significant acquisition in 2007 and it is possible that we will acquire additional entire businesses in the future. Potential risks involved in the acquisition of such businesses include the inability to satisfy closing conditions, continue to identify business entities for acquisition, the inability to successfully integrate such businesses into our operations, and the inability to make acquisitions on terms that we consider economically acceptable. Furthermore, there is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our strategy of completing acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to obtain debt and equity financing and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. Our ability to pursue our growth strategy may be hindered if we are not able to obtain financing or regulatory approvals. Our ability to grow through acquisitions and manage growth would require us to continue to invest in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage our employees. The inability to effectively manage the integration of acquisitions could reduce our focus on subsequent acquisitions and current operations, which, in turn, could negatively impact our earnings and growth. Our financial position and results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, based on whether or not significant acquisitions are completed in particular periods. Shortages of oil field equipment, services and qualified personnel could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. Historically, there have been shortages of drilling rigs and other oil field equipment as demand for rigs and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. It is beyond our control and ability to predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. These types of shortages or price increases could significantly decrease our profit margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict our ability to drill the wells and conduct the operations that we currently have planned and budgeted. During times of reduced demand, costs for equipment and services often decline more slowly than they increased during times of high demand. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may issue additional capital stock to raise capital, or as partial consideration in acquisitions, which would dilute current investors. Our board of directors may determine in the future that we need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, common stock or other securities. Further, we may issue additional shares of our capital stock to sellers in mergers or acquisitions as purchase consideration. Any such issuance will dilute the ownership percentage of the current holders of our common stock. We issued convertible preferred stock, in private placements to raise additional capital during late 2007 and early 2008. For further information about these convertible shares, see the discussion in Note G to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Further, a portion of the consideration for our April 2007 acquisition of Output Exploration, LLC was comprised of shares of our common stock. Pursuant to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our board of directors has the authority to issue additional shares of common stock without approval of our stockholders, subject to applicable stock exchange requirements. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock with rights greater than our common stock. Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock and set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our stockholders. Any preferred stock that is issued may rank ahead of our common stock for dividend priority and liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights, and have other preferences, to our common stock. In 2007 and 2008, we issued a total of 88,909 shares of convertible preferred stock with an aggregate stated value of $88.9 million. In October 2008, preferred shares with an aggregate value of $12.0 million were converted into approximately 1.1 million shares of our common stock, including make-whole shares related to preferred dividends. In January 2009, preferred shares with an aggregate value of $10.0 million were converted into approximately 1.5 million shares of our common stock, including make-whole shares related to preferred dividends. The remaining 66,909 shares of convertible preferred stock are convertible into approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock, excluding the potential issuance of make-whole shares related to unpaid dividends if converted within three years of issuance. - 17 - Under the terms of our Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and Certificate of Designations, Preferences and Rights of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock (collectively, the "Certificates of Designations"), the default under the bank credit facilities results in the holders of the Series D and Series E Convertible Preferred Stock having a right to demand that we redeem the preferred stock at the premium redemption price set forth in the Certificates of Designations. However, under the terms of the Certificates of Designations our obligation to pay the redemption price of any preferred stock demanded to be redeemed is suspended until the earlier of (i) October 31, 2012 or (ii) the date that all of our obligations under the bank credit facilities have been satisfied. Under the terms of the Certificates of Designations, the Company is obligated to pay interest at a rate of 1.5% per month in respect of each unredeemed preferred share until paid in full. On March 9, 2009, a holder of preferred stock demanded redemption of 34,409 shares of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock and 15,000 shares of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock. Generally, holders of our preferred stock are entitled to receive dividends, payable quarterly, at the rate of 6.5% and 6.0% per annum for Series D and Series E, respectively. In connection with our breach of the current ratio in our bank credit facilities, the dividend rate is increased to 12% per annum for both the Series D and Series E Preferred Stock until such time as the breach of the current ratio covenant is cured. The exercise of stock options would result in dilution of our common stock. To the extent options to purchase common stock under our stock incentive plans are exercised, holders of our common stock will be diluted. As of March 13, 2009, there were outstanding under our 2005 Stock Incentive Plan options to purchase an aggregate 300,000 shares of our common stock. None of these options are currently exercisable, however approximately 100,000 become exercisable in December 2009. Instituted in 2000, our Rights Plan and certain provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation may inhibit a takeover of the Company. · Our Rights Plan and certain provisions in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation could have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company. · Our Rights Plan, commonly referred to as a "poison pill," provides that when any person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of Company common stock, or commences a tender offer that would result in beneficial ownership of 15% or more of such stock, holders of rights under the Rights Plan will be entitled to purchase, at the Right's then current exercise price, shares of our common stock having a value of twice the Right's exercise price. · Pursuant to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to effect a change in control or takeover of the Company. · Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that our Board of Directors will be divided into three classes of approximately equal numbers of directors, with the term of office of one class expiring each year over a three-year period. Classification of directors has the effect of making it more difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock may adversely affect our stock price and make future offerings to raise more capital difficult. Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that sales may occur could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may issue restricted securities or register additional shares of common stock in the future for our use in connection with future acquisitions. Except for volume limitations and certain other regulatory requirements applicable to affiliates, such shares may be freely tradable unless we contractually restrict their resale. The availability for sale, or actual sale, of the shares of common stock eligible for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We have not paid, nor do we expect to pay any cash dividends with respect to our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings for use in our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 18 - ITEM 