ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risk factors associated with our financial condition: If we fail to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. During the quarter ended December 31, 2006, our management determined that we had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting which occurred and was associated with an unresolved pay-out calculation on one of our domestic wells in the Lake Raccourci field which was not properly documented and accounted for within our revenue and accounting system. Subsequently, during the quarter ended December 31, 2006 we engaged a third-party firm to conduct a comprehensive review of our domestic operations agreements. Subsequent to our remediation efforts during the fourth quarter of 2006, our management determined that we no longer had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006. Our financial condition may suffer if estimates of its oil and gas reserve information are adjusted, and fluctuations in oil and gas prices and other factors affect our oil and gas reserves. Our oil and gas reserve information is based upon criteria mandated by the SEC, and reflects only estimates of the accumulation of oil and gas and the economic recoverability of those volumes. Our future production, revenues and expenditures with respect to such oil and gas reserves could be different from estimates, and any material differences may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions. 7 Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may prove to differ materially from that assumed in estimating reserves: · the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, · the production and operating costs incurred, · the amount and timing of future development expenditures, and · future oil and gas sales prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flow based on the same available data. The estimated discounted future net cash flows described in this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2006 should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to our properties from proved reserves. Such estimates are based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, in accordance with SEC requirements, while future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. The SEC requires that we report our oil and natural gas reserves using the price as of the last day of the year. Using lower values in forecasting reserves will result in a shorter life being given to producing oil and natural gas properties because such properties, as their production levels are estimated to decline, will reach an uneconomic limit, with lower prices, at an earlier date. There can be no assurance that a decrease in oil and gas prices or other differences in our estimates of its reserve will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If estimated discounted future net cash flows decrease, we may be required to take writedowns. We periodically review the carrying value of our oil and gas properties under applicable full-cost accounting rules. These rules require a writedown of the carrying value of oil and gas properties if the carrying value exceeds the applicable estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves. Given the volatility of oil and gas prices, it is reasonably possible that the estimated discounted future net cash flows could change in the near term. If oil and gas prices continue to decline in the future, even if only for a short period of time, it is possible that writedowns of oil and gas properties could occur. Whether we will be required to take such a charge will depend on the prices for oil and gas at the end of any quarter and the effect of reserve additions or revisions, property sales and capital expenditures during such quarter. If we do not continue to meet the listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange, our common stock could be delisted. The American Stock Exchange requires companies to fulfill certain requirements in order for their shares to continue to be listed. The securities of a company may be considered for delisting if the company fails to meet certain financial thresholds, including if the company has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. There can be no assurance that we will not report additional losses in the future or that the American Stock Exchange will not delist our common stock. The potential delisting of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to raise capital in the future by issuing common stock or securities convertible into common stock. 8 One of our shareholders owns a significant amount of our common stock and exercises significant control over us. As of December 31, 2006, Lyford Investments Enterprises Ltd. (“Lyford”) beneficially owned approximately 30% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Lyford is in a position to significantly influence decisions with respect to: · our direction and policies, including the election and removal of directors, · mergers or other business combinations, · the acquisition or disposition of our assets, · future issuances of our common stock or other securities, · our incurrence of debt, and · the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Lyford’s concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a future change of control. Risks associated with our crude oil and natural gas operations: Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves. As is generally the case, our producing properties in the Gulf of Mexico and the onshore Gulf Coast often have high initial production rates, followed by steep declines. To maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Without successful exploration or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline rapidly. We may be unable to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If lower oil and gas prices or operating constraints or production difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected or limit our ability to borrow under our credit arrangements, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves. 9 Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Estimating accumulations of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the SEC, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: · the quality and quantity of available data; · the interpretation of that data; · the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and · the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based on estimates we prepared. Estimates prepared by others might differ materially from our estimates. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties. You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows is the current market value of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs in effect at December 31. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs we used. Oil and gas price fluctuations in the market may adversely affect the results of our operations. The results of our operations are highly dependent upon the prices received for our oil and natural gas production. Substantially all of our sales of oil and natural gas are made in the spot market, or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, and not pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, the prices received for our oil and natural gas production are dependent upon numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer product demand, governmental regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas and the overall economic environment. Significant declines in prices for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and quantities of reserves recoverable on an economic basis. Any significant decline in prices of oil or gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the price of oil and natural gas has been volatile. For example, during 2006, based on NYMEX pricing, the price for a bbl of oil ranged from a high of $77.03 to a low of $55.81 and the price for a Mcf of gas ranged from a high of $11.23 to a low of $4.20. Our operations require significant expenditures of capital that may not be recovered. We require significant expenditures of capital in order to locate and acquire producing properties and to drill exploratory and exploitation wells. In conducting exploration, exploitation and development activities from a particular well, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our exploration, exploitation, development and production activities to be unsuccessful, potentially resulting in abandoning the well. This could result in a total loss of our investment. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is difficult to predict. 10 The oil and gas we produce may not be readily marketable at the time of production. Crude oil, natural gas, condensate and other oil and gas products are generally sold to other oil and gas companies, government agencies and other industries. The availability of ready markets for oil and gas that we might discover and the prices obtained for such oil and gas depend on many factors beyond our control, including: · the extent of local production and imports of oil and gas, · the proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation facilities, · fluctuating demand for oil and gas, · the marketing of competitive fuels, and · the effects of governmental regulation of oil and gas production and sales. Natural gas associated with oil production is often not marketable due to demand or transportation limitations and is often flared at the producing well site. Pipeline facilities do not exist in certain areas of exploration and, therefore, any actual sales of discovered oil and gas might be delayed for extended periods until such facilities are constructed. We may encounter operating hazards that may result in substantial losses. We are subject to operating hazards normally associated with the exploration and production of oil and gas, including blowouts, explosions, oil spills, cratering, pollution, earthquakes, labor disruptions and fires. The occurrence of any such operating hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life and damage to or destruction of oil and gas wells, formations, production facilities or other properties. We maintain insurance coverage limiting financial loss resulting from certain of these operating hazards. We do not maintain full insurance coverage for all matters that may adversely affect our operations, including war, terrorism, nuclear reactions, government fines, treatment of waste, blowout expenses and business interruptions. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities associated with operational hazards. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. During 2005, our operations in the Gulf of Mexico were affected by one tropical storm and two hurricanes that interrupted both production and certain drilling operations. As much as 75% of our Gulf Coast domestic production was shut in at one-time during 2005. Restoration of curtailed production was dependent on resumption of downstream infrastructure of third-parties and the availability of service and equipment contractors necessary for over-water transportation repairs. We do not maintain full insurance coverage for all matters that may adversely affect our operations, including war, terrorism, nuclear reactions, government fines, treatment of waste, blowout expenses and business interruptions. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities associated with operational hazards. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. 11 Drilling oil and gas wells particularly in certain regions of the United States could be hindered by hurricanes, earthquakes and other weather-related operating risks. Our operations in the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast area are subject to risks from hurricanes and other natural disasters. Damage caused by hurricanes, earthquakes or other operating hazards could result in substantial losses to us. For example, during 2004 and 2005, our oil and gas operations were affected by tropical storms and hurricanes resulting in reduced oil and gas volumes during those periods. See “Risk Factors — We may encounter operating hazards that may result in substantial losses.” We face strong competition from larger oil and gas companies, which could result in adverse effects on our business. The exploration, exploitation and production business is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially larger financial resources, staffs and facilities. Our competitors in the United States include numerous major oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our investment in Global may be affected as a result of the competition faced by Global in Colombia, Peru and Panama that includes such major oil and gas companies as BP Amoco, Exxon/Mobil, Texaco/Shell and Conoco/Phillips. These major oil and gas companies are often better positioned to obtain the rights to exploratory acreage for which we compete. Our operations are subject to various litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business. From time to time our subsidiaries are defendants in various litigation matters. The nature of our and our subsidiaries’ operations expose us to further possible litigation claims in the future. There is risk that any matter in litigation could be adversely decided against us or our subsidiaries, regardless of our belief, opinion and position, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation is highly costly and the costs associated with defending litigation could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Compliance with, or breach of, environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to numerous and frequently changing laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. We own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas and these properties and the wastes disposed on these properties may be subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously released wastes or property contamination. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent and, may in some cases, impose “strict liability” for environmental damage. Strict liability means that we may be held liable for damage without regard to whether we were negligent or otherwise at fault. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with existing requirements of governmental bodies, our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. Our current permits and authorizations and ability to get future permits and authorizations may be susceptible on a going forward basis, to increased scrutiny, greater complexity resulting in increased costs, or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. 12 Risk factors associated with our investment activities: Our investment activities may cause us to become a registered investment company We have made a recent investment in a Canadian junior oil and gas company. Earlier in 2006, we began active management of investments in energy industry securities traded on domestic securities exchanges. We may become subject to registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 if our ownership of investment securities should exceed a specified amount of our total assets. Our investment in Global, by virtue of the deconsolidation which occurred in 2006, further increases our portfolio of what is considered to be investment securities under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Although we do not expect to become subject to this statute in the foreseeable future, becoming a registered investment company would restrict our ability to offer services to our portfolio investments, increase our administrative costs and otherwise adversely affect the ability to operate our business. Changing conditions in financial markets and the economy could result in decreased trading revenues. Changes in the financial markets or economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world could adversely affect our business in many ways. A market downturn could lead to a decline in the value of our investments and, therefore, to a decline in the trading revenues we receive from our investment trading activities. Our principal trading and investments expose us to risk of loss. A portion of our revenues is derived from investment trading activities. We may incur trading losses relating to the purchase, sale or short sale of high yield, international, convertible, and equity securities and futures. Additionally, we may have substantial investments of our capital in equity securities including investments managed by us and investments managed by third parties. In any period, we may experience losses as a result of price declines, lack of trading volume, and illiquidity. From time to time, we may engage in a large block trade in a single security or maintain large position concentrations in a single security, securities of a single issuer, or securities of issuers engaged in a specific industry, primarily the energy industry. In general, because our investments are marked to market on a daily basis, any adverse price movement in these securities and futures could result in a reduction of our revenues and profits. We may suffer losses through futures trading. We invest capital in the trading of energy futures contracts. The results of these investments can be significantly impacted by factors such as the volatility of the relationship between the value of futures contracts and the cash prices of the underlying commodity, counterparty contract defaults, and general volatility of the capital markets. The changes in the market value of such futures contracts may fluctuate significantly from time to time, and gains or losses on any particular futures contract may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations. We may suffer losses on our investments from exchange rate fluctuations. We account for our investments in Global and Spitfire using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. The shares of common stock associated with our investments in Global and Spitfire are denominated in British sterling pounds and Canadian dollars, respectively. We could suffer a loss in our investments if the value of the British sterling pound and the Canadian dollar were to drop relative to the value of the U.S. dollar. Any substantial currency fluctuations could create a material adverse effect on the value of our investments. 13 Unauthorized hedging and related activities could result in significant losses. Although we have adopted various internal policies and procedures designed to monitor these activities and positions to ensure that we maintain an overall position that is substantially balanced between our physical assets as compared to our trading activities. These policies and procedures are designed, in part, to prevent unauthorized purchases or sales of securities by our employees. We cannot assure, however, that these steps will detect and prevent all violations of our risk management policies and procedures, particularly if deception or other intentional misconduct is involved. Risks associated with market conditions: Our stock price is volatile and the value of any investment in our common stock may fluctuate. Our stock price has been and is highly volatile, and we believe this volatility is due to, among other things: · the results of our drilling, · current expectations of our future financial performance, · commodity prices of oil and natural gas, · the volatility of the market in general. For example, our common stock price has fluctuated from a high of $1.36 per share to a low of $0.37 per share over the three years ended December 31, 2006. This volatility may affect the market value of our common stock in the future. See Part II, Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Future sales of our common stock may affect the market price of our common stock. There are currently several registration statements with respect to our common stock that are effective, pursuant to which certain of our stockholders may sell shares of common stock. Any such sale of stock may also decrease the market price of our common stock. Any conversions of our Series M Preferred Stock or exercise of warrants issued to holders of our Series L and Series M Preferred Stock involving a large issuance of shares of our common stock could result in a dilution of stockholders’ ownership percentage of our common stock and may result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. In addition, we may elect to issue a significant number of additional shares of common stock for financing or other purposes, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We have issued shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock and may issue additional shares of preferred stock in the future. We are permitted under our charter to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock. We can issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series and can set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our common stockholders. Any preferred stock that we issue may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividend priority or liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than our common stock. At December 31, 2006, we had outstanding 1,600 shares of Series G1 Preferred, 1,000 shares of Series G2 Preferred and 44,000 shares of Series M Preferred. These shares of preferred stock have rights senior to our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. In addition, such preferred stock 14 may be converted into shares of common stock, which could dilute the value of common stock to current stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. At December 31, 2006, each share of Series G1 Preferred, Series G2 Preferred and Series M Preferred, may be converted into shares of common stock at conversion prices of $12.50, $3.00 and $0.59 per share of common stock, respectively, for each $100.00 liquidation value of a share of such preferred stock, plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 