ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Interested persons should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline.Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. This section should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our business or operating results. Our business can be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general geopolitical, economic, and business conditions. Recent turmoil in the worldwide financial markets, and the present economic slowdown and the uncertainty over its breadth, depth and duration continue to put pressure on the global economy and have a negative effect on our business. Further, the worldwide financial and credit crisis continues to limit the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit, combined with losses in worldwide equity markets, is contributing to the continuation of the world-wide economic recession. While we do not currently depend on access to the credit markets to finance our operations, there can be no assurance that the deteriorated state of the financial markets will not impair our ability to obtain financing in the future, including, but not limited to, our ability to draw on funds under our existing credit facilities or our ability to incur indebtedness or sell equity if that became necessary or desirable. If we were not able to obtain additional financing when needed, our ability to invest in additional research and development resources and sales and marketing resources could be adversely affected, which could hinder our ability to sell competitive products into our markets on a timely basis. In addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, such as the insolvency of certain of our key customers, which could impair our distribution channels, or result in the inability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. Also, the U.S. economic stimulus legislation enacted in 2009 has caused potential customers to delay their purchases until they determine if the economic incentives will become available to them under the legislation, and if so, the conditions under which the stimulus funds will be granted. This uncertainty about future economic and political conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. We have already seen the effects of the economic slowdown on both our LWI and NES revenues. If economic activity in the U.S. and other countries’ economies remains weak, many customers may continue to delay, reduce, or even eliminate their purchases of networking technology products. This could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales 11 Table of Contents cycles, slower adoption of our technologies, increased price competition, and increased exposure to excess and obsolete inventory. For example, distributors could decide to further reduce inventories of our products. Also, the inability to obtain credit could cause a utility to postpone its decision to move forward with a large scale deployment of our NES system. If conditions in the global economy, U.S. economy or other key vertical or geographic markets we serve remain uncertain or weaken further, we would experience material negative impacts on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, capital resources, and liquidity. Our NES revenues may not be predictable, which could cause volatility in the price of our stock. We and our partners sell our NES system to utilities. For several reasons, sales cycles with utility companies can be extended and unpredictable. Utilities generally have complex budgeting, purchasing, and regulatory processes that govern their capital spending. In addition, in many instances, a utility may require one or more field trials of an automated meter infrastructure (AMI) system (such as one based on our NES system) before moving to a volume deployment. There is also generally an extended development and integration effort required in order to incorporate a new technology into a utility’s existing infrastructure. In addition, in the U.S., utilities have delayed deployments as they have sought incentives under the U.S. economic stimulus legislation. A number of other factors may also need to be addressed before the utility decides to engage in a full-scale deployment of our NES system, including: • regulatory factors or internal utility requirements that may affect the AMI system or the timing of its deployment; • the time it takes for utilities to evaluate multiple competing bids, negotiate terms, and award contracts for large scale metering system deployments; • the deployment schedule for projects undertaken by our utility or systems integrator customers; and • delays in installing, operating, and evaluating the results of an AMI field trial that is based on our NES system. As a result, we can often spend up to two years working either directly or through a reseller to make a sale to a utility. At the end of that lengthy sales process, there is no guarantee that we will be selected by the utility. In addition, shipment of NES products to a particular jurisdiction or customer is generally dependent on either obtaining regulatory approval for the NES meter or other products from a third party for the relevant jurisdiction, or satisfying the customer’s internal testing requirements, or both. This certification approval process is often referred to as homologation. Further, shipment of NES products into some jurisdictions requires our contract manufacturers to pass certain tests and meet various standards related to the production of our NES meters. Failure to receive any such approval on a timely basis or at all, or failure to maintain any such approval, would have a material adverse impact on our ability to ship our NES system products, and would therefore have an adverse affect on our results of operations and our financial condition. Once a utility decides to move forward with a large-scale deployment of an AMI project that is based on our NES system, the timing of and our ability to recognize revenue on our NES system product shipments will depend on several factors. These factors, some of which may not be under our control, include shipment schedules that may be delayed or subject to modification, other contractual provisions, such as customer acceptance of all or any part of the AMI system, and our ability to manufacture and deliver quality products according to expected schedules. In addition, the complex revenue recognition rules relating to products such as our NES system may also require us to defer some or all of the revenue associated with NES product shipments until certain conditions, such as the acceptance of software deliverables, are met in a future period. By way of example, at the end of 2006, our revenue recognition policies required us to defer approximately $14.4 million of NES revenue due to customer requests for modified functionality in a software feature even though we had already shipped the associated hardware, which had been accepted and in some cases paid for by the customers. As a consequence of these long sales cycles, unpredictable delay factors, and complex revenue recognition policies, our ability to predict the amount of NES revenues that we may expect to recognize in any given fiscal quarter is likely to be limited. As NES revenues account for an increasing percentage of our overall revenues, we are likely to have increasing difficulty in projecting our overall financial results. Our inability to accurately forecast future revenues is likely to cause our stock price to be volatile. Sales of our NES system may fail to meet our financial targets, which would harm our results of operations. We have invested and intend to continue to invest significant resources in the development and sales of our NES system. Our long-term financial goals include expectations for a reasonable return on these investments. However, to date the revenues generated from sales of our NES system products have not yielded gross margins in line with our long term goals for this product line, although our operating expenses have increased significantly. 12 Table of Contents In order to achieve our financial targets, we must meet the following objectives: • Increase market acceptance of our NES system products in order to increase NES revenues; • Increase gross margin from our NES revenues by continuing to reduce the cost of manufacturing our NES system products, while at the same time managing manufacturing cost pressures associated with commodity prices and foreign exchange fluctuations; • Manage the manufacturing transition to reduced-cost NES products; and • Manage our operating expenses to a reasonable percentage of revenues. We cannot assure you that we will meet any or all of these objectives to the extent necessary to achieve our financial goals and, if we fail to achieve our goals, our results of operations are likely to be harmed. We are exposed to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable, and this risk has been heightened during the current decline in economic conditions. We only recognize revenue when we believe collectability is reasonably assured. However, almost none of our outstanding accounts receivables are covered by collateral or credit insurance. In addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following shipment of product, or in some cases, after the customer’s acceptance of our products. While we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk and avoid losses. Additionally, when one of our resellers makes a sale to a utility, we face further credit risk, and we may defer revenue, due to the fact that the reseller may not be able to pay us until it receives payment from the utility. This risk could become more magnified during a particular fiscal period if the resellers facing credit issues represent a significant portion of our accounts receivable during that period. As economic conditions change and worsen, certain of our direct or indirect customers may face liquidity concerns and may be unable to satisfy their payment obligations to us or our resellers on a timely basis or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to develop or enhance our products in a timely manner, our revenues will suffer. Due to the nature of development efforts in general, we often experience delays in the introduction of new or improved products beyond our original projected shipping date for such products. Historically, when these delays have occurred, we experienced an increase in our development costs and a delay in our ability to generate revenues from these new products. In addition, such delays could impair our relationship with any of our customers that were relying on the timely delivery of our products in order to complete their own products or projects. We believe that similar new product introduction delays in the future could also increase our costs and delay our revenues. Because we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and in certain cases, a sole supplier, the failure of any key supplier to produce timely and compliant products could result in a failure to ship products, which would harm our results of operations and financial position. Our future success will depend significantly on our ability to timely manufacture our products cost effectively, in sufficient volumes, and in accordance with quality standards. For most of our products requiring assembly, we rely on a limited number of contract electronic manufacturers (CEMs), principally Jabil and TYCO. These CEMs procure material and assemble, test, and inspect the final products to our specifications. This strategy involves certain risks, including reduced control over quality, costs, delivery schedules, availability of materials, components, finished products, and manufacturing yields. As a result of these and other risks, our CEMs could demand price increases for manufacturing our products. In addition, CEMs can experience turnover and instability, exposing us to additional risks as well as missed commitments to our customers. We also maintain manufacturing agreements with a limited number of semiconductor manufacturers for the production of key products, including those used in our NES system. The Neuron Chip, which is an important component that we and our customers use in control network devices, is currently manufactured and distributed by two providers, Toshiba and Cypress Semiconductor. Toshiba has informed us that it does not intend to renew its Neuron Chip agreement with us, which expired in January 2010. However, we have agreed with Toshiba that Toshiba will continue to accept orders for Neuron Chips from its customers through September 2011 for deliveries through December 2012. In the meantime, we are developing a plan to allow for a smooth migration path for Toshiba’s customers to our new Neuron 5000 processor, which we intend to purchase from Open-Silicon. Another semiconductor supplier, STMicroelectronics, manufactures our power line smart transceiver products, for which we have no alternative source. In addition, we currently purchase several key products and components from sole or limited source suppliers with which we do not maintain signed agreements that would obligate them to supply to us on negotiated terms. 13 Table of Contents We are continuing to review the impact the ongoing worldwide financial crisis is having on our suppliers. Some of these suppliers are large, well capitalized companies, while others are smaller and more highly leveraged. In order to mitigate these risks, we may take actions such as increasing our inventory levels and/or adding additional sources of supply. Such actions may increase our costs and increase the risk of excess and obsolete inventories. Even if we undertake such actions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent any disruption in the supply of goods and services we receive from these suppliers. We may also elect to change any of these key suppliers. For example, earlier this year we completed the process of ending our relationship with a former CEM partner, Flextronics. As part of this transition, we moved the production of products Flextronics built for us to alternative CEMs. We were also required to purchase certain raw material and in-process inventory from Flextronics that Flextronics procured in anticipation of our production requirements. In addition, if any of our key suppliers were to stop manufacturing our products or supplying us with our key components, it could be expensive and time consuming to find a replacement. Also, as our NES business grows, we will be required to expand our business with our key suppliers or find additional sources of supply, as we have recently done with Jabil. There is no guarantee that we would be able to find acceptable alternative or additional sources. Additional risks that we face if we must transition between CEMs include: • moving raw material, in-process inventory, and capital equipment between locations, some of which may be in different parts of the world; • reestablishing acceptable manufacturing processes with a new work force; and • exposure to excess or obsolete inventory held by contract manufacturers for use in our products. The failure of any key manufacturer to produce a sufficient number of products on time, at agreed quality levels, and fully compliant with our product, assembly and test specifications could result in our failure to ship products, which would adversely affect our revenues and gross profit, and could result in claims against us by our customers, which could harm our results of operations and financial position. Because our products use components or materials that may be subject to price fluctuations, shortages, or interruptions of supply, we may be unable to ship our products in a timely fashion, which would adversely affect our revenues, harm our reputation and negatively impact our results of operations. We may be vulnerable to price increases for products, components, or materials, such as copper and cobalt. We generally do not enter into forward contracts or other methods of hedging against supply risk of these raw materials. In addition, in the past we have occasionally experienced shortages or interruptions in supply for certain of these items, including products or components that have been or will be discontinued, which caused us to delay shipments beyond targeted or announced dates. To help address these issues, we may decide to purchase quantities of these items that are in excess of our estimated requirements. As a result, we could be forced to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, which could harm our operating results. If we experience any shortage of products or components of acceptable quality, or any interruption in the supply of these products or components, or if we are not able to procure them from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable period of time, our revenues, gross profits or both could decrease. In addition, under the terms of some of our contracts with our customers, we may also be subject to penalties if we fail to deliver our products on time. Because we may incur penalties and/or be liable for damages with respect to sales of our NES system products, we could incur unanticipated liabilities that would negatively affect our operating results. In the event of late deliveries, late or improper installations or operations, failure to meet product specifications or other product failures, failure to achieve performance specifications, indemnities or other compliance issues, the agreements governing the sales of the NES system may expose us to penalties, damages and other liabilities. Even in the absence of such contractual provisions, we may agree, or may be required by law, to assume certain liabilities for the benefit of our customers. Any such liabilities would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Because the markets for our products are highly competitive, we may lose sales to our competitors, which would harm our revenues and results of operations. Competition in our markets is intense and involves rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, rapid changes in customer or regulatory requirements, and localized market requirements. In each of our markets, we compete with a wide array of manufacturers, vendors, strategic alliances, systems developers and other businesses. 14 Table of Contents The principal competitive factors that affect the markets for our products include the following: • our ability to anticipate changes in customer or regulatory requirements and to develop or improve our products to meet these requirements in a timely manner; • the price and features of our products such as adaptability, scalability, functionality, ease of use, and the ability to integrate with other products; • our product reputation, quality, performance, and conformance with established industry standards; • our ability to expand our product line to address our customers’ requirements, such as adding additional electricity meter form factors; • our ability to meet a customer’s required delivery schedules; • our customer service and support; • warranties, indemnities, and other contractual terms; and • customer relationships and market awareness. Competitors for our NES system products include Aclara, Elster, Enel, GE, IBM, Iskraemeco, Itron, the Landis+Gyr group of companies, Siemens, and Silver Spring Networks, which directly or through IT integrators such as IBM or telecommunications companies such as Telenor, offer metering systems that compete with our NES system offering. For our LWI products, our competitors include some of the largest companies in the electronics industry, operating either alone or together with trade associations and partners. Key company competitors include companies such as Cisco, Siemens, and Tridium in the building industry; Allen-Bradley (a subsidiary of Rockwell Automation), Groupe Schneider and Siemens in the industrial automation industry; Siemens in the transportation industry; and Zensys in the home control market. Key industry standard and trade group competitors include BACnet, DALI, and Konnex in the buildings industry; DeviceNet, HART, and Profibus in the industrial control market; DLMS in the utility industry; Echonet, ZigBee and the Z-Wave alliance in the home control market; and the Train Control Network (TCN) in the rail transportation market. Each of these standards and/or alliances is backed by one or more competitors. For example, the ZigBee alliance includes over 300 member companies with promoter members such as Ember, Emerson, Freescale, Itron, Kroger, Landis+Gyr, Philips, Reliant Energy, Schneider Electric, STMicroelectronics, Tendril, and Texas Instruments. Many of our competitors, alone or together with their trade associations and partners, have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, significantly greater name recognition, and broader product offerings. In addition, the utility metering market is experiencing a trend towards consolidation. As a result, these competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, and sale of their products, and may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements or product technology. Some of our competitors may also be eligible for stimulus money, which could give them an additional financial advantage. If we are unable to compete effectively in any of the markets we serve, our revenues, results of operations, and financial position would be harmed. Liabilities resulting from defects in or misuse of our products, whether or not covered by insurance, may delay our revenues and increase our liabilities and expenses. Our products may contain or may be alleged to contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced, as new versions are released, or as a result of the manufacturing or shipping process. In addition, our customers or their installation partners may improperly install or implement our products, which could delay completion of a deployment or hinder our ability to win a subsequent award. Furthermore, because of the low cost and interoperable nature of our products, LONWORKS technology could be used in a manner for which it was not intended. Even if we determine that an alleged error or failure in our products does not exist, we may incur expense and shipments and revenue may be delayed while we analyze the alleged error or failure. If errors or failures are found in our products, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Such errors or failures could delay our product shipments and divert our engineering resources while we attempt to correct them. In addition, we could decide to extend the warranty period, or incur other costs outside of our normal warranty coverage, to help address any known errors or failures in our products and mitigate the impact on our customers. This could delay our revenues and increase our expenses. To address these issues, the agreements we maintain with our customers may contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to potential errors and omissions claims as well as any liabilities arising from them. In certain very limited instances, these agreements require that we be named as an additional insured on our customers’ insurance policies. However, our customer contracts and additional insured coverage may not effectively protect us against the liabilities and expenses associated with errors or failures attributable to our products. 15 Table of Contents Defects in our products may also cause us to be liable for losses in the event of property damage, harm or death to persons, claims against our directors or officers, and the like. Such liabilities could harm our reputation, expose our company to liability, and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. To help reduce our exposure to these types of liabilities, we currently maintain property, general commercial liability, errors and omissions, directors and officers, and other lines of insurance. However, it is possible that such insurance may not be available in the future or, if available, may be insufficient in amount to cover any particular claim, or we might not carry insurance that covers a specific claim. In addition, we believe that the premiums for the types of insurance we carry will continue to fluctuate from period to period. Significant cost increases could also result in increased premiums or reduced coverage limits. Consequently, if we elect to reduce our coverage, or if we do not carry insurance for a particular type of claim, we will face increased exposure to these types of claims. Due to the financial and operational risks associated with our international operations, our revenues may decline due to risks unrelated to our ability to sell our products. We have operations located in eleven countries around the world. Revenues from international sales, which include both export sales and sales by international subsidiaries, accounted for about 73.2%, 75.0%, and 86.6% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We expect that international sales will continue to constitute a significant portion of our total net revenues. Changes in the value of currencies in which we conduct our business relative to the U.S. dollar have caused and could continue to cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. The three primary areas where we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations are revenues, cost of goods sold, and operating expenses. In general, we sell our products to foreign customers primarily in U.S. dollars. As such, fluctuations in exchange rates have had in the past and could continue to have an impact on revenues. As the value of the dollar rises, our products will become more expensive to our foreign customers, which could result in their decision to postpone or cancel a planned purchase. With respect to the relatively minimal amount of our revenues generated in foreign currencies, our historical foreign currency exposure has been related primarily to the Japanese Yen and has not been material to our consolidated results of operations. However, in the future, we expect that some foreign utilities may require us to price our NES system in the utility’s local currency, which will increase our exposure to foreign currency risk. In addition, we have agreed with EBV, our European distributor, that upon notice from EBV, we will sell our products to EBV in European Euros rather than U.S. dollars. If EBV were to exercise this right, our revenue exposure to foreign currency fluctuations would increase. For our cost of goods sold, our products are generally assembled by CEMs in China. Although our transactions with these vendors have historically been denominated in U.S. dollars, in the future they may require us to pay in their local currency, or demand a U.S. dollar price adjustment or other payment to address a change in exchange rates, which would increase our cost to procure our products. This is particularly a risk in China, where any future revaluations of the Chinese currency against the U.S. dollar could result in significant cost increases. In addition, any future increase in labor costs in the markets where our products are manufactured could also result in higher costs to procure our products. We use the local currency to pay for our operating expenses in the various countries where we have operations. If the value of the U.S. dollar declines as compared to the local currency where the expenses are incurred, our expenses, when translated back into U.S. dollars, will increase. To date, we have not hedged any of our foreign currency exposures and currently do not maintain any hedges to mitigate our foreign currency risks. Consequently, any resulting adverse foreign currency fluctuations could significantly harm our revenues, cost of goods sold, or operating expenses. 16 Table of Contents Additional risks inherent in our international business activities include the following: • the imposition of tariffs or other trade barriers on the importation of our products; • timing of and costs associated with localizing products for foreign countries and lack of acceptance of non-local products in foreign countries; • inherent challenges in managing international operations; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; the applicability of foreign laws that could affect our business or revenues, such as laws that purport to require that we return payments that we received from insolvent customers in certain circumstances; and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other trade barriers; • economic and political conditions in the countries where we do business; • differing vacation and holiday patterns in other countries, particularly in Europe; • labor actions generally affecting individual countries, regions, or any of our customers, which could result in reduced demand for, or could delay delivery or acceptance of, our products; • international terrorism; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, and our financial condition. If we do not maintain adequate distribution channels, our revenues will be harmed. We market our NES system products directly, as well as through selected VARs and integration partners. We believe that a significant portion of our NES system sales will be made through our VARs and integration partners, rather than directly by us. To date, our VARs and integration partners have greater experience in overseeing projects for utilities. As a result, if our relationships with our VARs and integration partners are not successful, or if we are not able to create similar distribution channels for our NES system products with other companies in other geographic areas, revenues from sales of our NES system products may not meet our financial targets, which will harm our operating results and financial condition. Currently, significant portions of our LWI revenues are derived from sales to distributors, including EBV, the primary independent distributor of our products to OEMs in Europe. Historically, sales to EBV, as well as sales to our other distributor partners, have accounted for a substantial portion of our total LWI revenues. Agreements with our distributor partners are generally renewed on an annual basis. If any of these agreements are not renewed, we would be required to locate another distributor or add our own distribution capability to meet the needs of our end-use customers. Any replacement distribution channel could prove less effective than our current arrangements. In addition, if any of our distributor partners fail to dedicate sufficient resources to market and sell our products, our revenues would suffer. Furthermore, if they significantly reduce their inventory levels for our products, service levels to our end-use customers could decrease. Our executive officers and technical personnel are critical to our business. Our success depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Due to the specialized technical nature of our business, we are particularly dependent on our Chief Executive Officer and our technical personnel. In November 2009, we announced that our Chairman and CEO would step down as CEO for health reasons. At the same time, we announced that one of our existing directors would become our CEO on an interim basis, while we search for a new CEO. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain a successor CEO and qualified technical, sales, operations, and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our business areas is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain a qualified CEO or other executive officers and key personnel. Our product development and marketing functions are largely based in Silicon Valley, which is a highly competitive marketplace. It may be particularly difficult to recruit, relocate and retain qualified personnel in this geographic area. Moreover, the cost of living, including the cost of housing, in Silicon Valley is known to be high. Because we are legally prohibited from making loans to executive officers, we will not be able to assist potential key personnel as they acquire housing or incur other costs that might be associated with joining our company. In addition, if we lose the services of any of our key personnel and are not able to find suitable replacements in a timely manner, our business could be disrupted, other key personnel may decide to leave, and we may incur increased operating expenses in finding and compensating their replacements. 17 Table of Contents The sales cycle for our LWI products is lengthy and unpredictable. The sales cycle between initial LWI customer contact and execution of a contract or license agreement with a customer or purchaser of our products, can vary widely. Initially, we must educate our customers about the potential applications of and cost savings associated with our products. If we are successful in this effort, OEMs typically conduct extensive and lengthy product evaluations before making a decision to design our products into their offerings. Once the OEM decides to incorporate our products, volume purchases of our products are generally delayed until the OEM’s product development, system integration, and product introduction periods have been completed. In addition, changes in our customer’s budgets, or the priority they assign to control network development, could also affect the sales cycle. We generally have little or no control over these factors, any of which could prevent or substantially delay our ability to complete a transaction and could adversely affect the timing of our revenues and results of operations. If we sell our NES system products directly to a utility, we will face additional risks. When we sell our NES system products to a utility directly, we may be required to assume responsibility for installing the NES system in the utility’s territory, integrating the NES system into the utility’s operating and billing system, overseeing management of the combined system, working with other of the utility’s contractors, and undertaking other activities. To date, we do not have any significant experience with providing these types of services. As a result, when we sell directly to a utility, it may be necessary for us to contract with third parties to satisfy these obligations. We cannot assure you that we would find appropriate third parties to provide these services on reasonable terms, or at all. Assuming responsibility for these or other services would add to the costs and risks associated with NES system installations, and could also negatively affect the timing of our revenues and cash flows related to these transactions. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual results have varied significantly from period to period, and we have sometimes failed to meet securities analysts’ expectations. Moreover, we have a history of losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve sustained profitability in the future. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: • the mix of products and services that we sell may change to a less profitable mix; • shipment, payment schedules, and product acceptance may be delayed; • we may be required to modify or add to our NES product offerings to meet a utility’s requirements, which could delay delivery and/or acceptance of our products; • the complex revenue recognition rules relating to products such as our NES system could require us to defer some or all of the revenue associated with NES product shipments until certain conditions, such as delivery and acceptance criteria for our software and/or hardware products, are met in a future period; • our contract electronic manufacturers may not be able to provide quality products on a timely basis, especially during periods where capacity in the CEM market is limited; • our products may not be manufactured in accordance with specifications or our established quality standards, or may not perform as designed; • our products may not be purchased by utilities, OEMs, systems integrators, service providers and end-users at the levels we project; • downturns in any customer’s or potential customer’s business, or declines in general economic conditions, could cause significant reductions in capital spending, thereby reducing the levels of orders from our customers; • recording of expense relating to equity compensation will decrease our earnings; • we may incur costs associated with any future business acquisitions; and • any future impairment charges related to goodwill, other intangible assets, and other long-lived assets required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States may negatively affect our earnings and financial condition. Any of the above factors could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition, which could cause our stock price to decline. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to promote and expand acceptance of our open, interoperable control systems over competing protocols, standards, or technologies. LONWORKS technology is open, meaning that many of our technology patents are broadly licensed without royalties or license fees. As a result, our LWI customers are able to develop hardware and software solutions that compete with some of our products. Because some of our customers are OEMs that develop and market their own control systems, these customers in particular could develop competing products based on our open technology. For instance, we have published all of the network management commands required to develop software that competes with our LNS software. In addition, many of our LWI competitors are dedicated to promoting closed or proprietary systems, technologies, software and network protocols or product standards that differ from or are incompatible with ours. We also face strong competition from large trade associations that promote alternative technologies and standards for particular vertical applications or for use in specific countries. These include BACnet, DALI, and KNX in the buildings market; DeviceNet, HART, and ProfiBus in the industrial controls market; TCN in the rail transportation market; and Echonet, ZigBee, and Z-Wave in the home control market. Our technologies, protocols, or standards may not be successful or we may not be able to compete with new or enhanced products or standards introduced by our LWI product line competitors, which would have a material adverse affect on our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Voluntary standards and governmental regulatory actions in our markets could limit our ability to sell our products. Standards bodies, which are formal and informal associations that attempt to set voluntary, non-governmental product standards, are influential in many of our target markets. We participate in many voluntary standards organizations around the world in order to both help prevent the adoption of exclusionary standards and to promote voluntary standards for our products. However, we do not have the resources to participate in all voluntary standards processes that may affect our markets. Many of our products and the industries in which they are used are subject to U.S. and foreign regulation. For example, the power line medium, which is the communications medium used by some of our products, is subject to special regulations in North America, Europe and Japan. In general, these regulations limit the ability of companies to use power lines as a communication medium. In addition, some of our competitors have attempted to use regulatory actions to reduce the market opportunity for our products or to increase the market opportunity for their own products. In addition, the market for our NES products may experience a movement towards standards based protocols, such as those being considered in the U.S. by NIST and in Europe and in other parts of the world by DLMSUA. To the extent that we do not adopt such protocols or do not succeed in achieving adoption of our own protocols as standards or de facto standards, sales of our NES products may be adversely affected. The adoption of voluntary standards or the passage of governmental regulations that are incompatible with our products or technology could limit the market opportunity for our products, which could harm our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or found that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers or other third parties that use our products in the event our products are alleged to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may also receive notice that a third party believes that our products may be infringing patents or other intellectual property rights of that third party. Responding to those claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. We do not insure against infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights. As the result of such a claim, we may elect or be required to redesign our products, some of our product offerings could be delayed, or we could be required to cease distributing some of our products. In the alternative, we could seek a license to the third party’s intellectual property. Even if our products do not infringe, we may elect to take a license or settle to avoid incurring litigation costs. However, it is possible that we would not be able to obtain such a license or settle on reasonable terms, or at all. Lastly, our customers may not purchase our products if they are concerned our products may infringe third party intellectual property rights. This could reduce the market opportunity for the sale of our products and services. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse affect on our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents We have limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends significantly upon our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect these intellectual property rights, all of which afford only limited protection. If any of our patents fail to protect our technology, or if we do not obtain patents in certain countries, our competitors may find it easier to offer equivalent or superior technology. We have also registered or applied for registration for certain trademarks, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. If we fail to properly register or maintain our trademarks or to otherwise take all necessary steps to protect our trademarks, the value associated with the trademarks may diminish. In addition, if we fail to protect our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, we may not be able to compete as effectively in our markets. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or services or use information that we regard as proprietary, or it may not be economically feasible to enforce them. Any of our patents, trademarks, copyrights or intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, we cannot assure you that we have taken or will take all necessary steps to protect our intellectual property rights. Third parties may also independently develop similar technology without breach of our trade secrets or other proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries, including several in which we operate or sell our products, do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may take longer to receive a remedy from a court outside of the United States. Also, some of our products are licensed under shrink-wrap license agreements that are not signed by licensees and therefore may not be binding under the laws of certain jurisdictions. From time to time, litigation may be necessary to defend and enforce our proprietary rights. As a result, we could incur substantial costs and divert management resources, which could harm our business, regardless of the final outcome. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights both in the United States and abroad, we may be unsuccessful in doing so. Also, the steps that we take to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights may be inadequate to deter third parties from infringing, misusing, misappropriating, or independently developing our technology or intellectual property rights, or to prevent an unauthorized third party from misappropriating our products or technology. The trading price of our stock has been volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: • significant stockholders may sell some or all of their holdings of our stock; • investors may be concerned about our ability to develop additional customers for our products and services; and • volatility in our stock price may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on the market price of our stock. Our existing stockholders control a significant percentage of our stock, which will limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 28, 2010, our directors and executive officers, together with certain entities affiliated with them (including, for this purpose, Enel, which has the right to nominate a director to our board of directors), beneficially owned 30.1% of our outstanding stock. When we sold 3.0 million newly issued shares of our common stock to Enel on September 11, 2000, we granted Enel the right to nominate a director to our board of directors, although a nominee of Enel does not currently sit on our board. In connection with the stock sale, our directors and our Chief Financial Officer agreed to enter into a voting agreement with Enel in which each of them agreed to vote in favor of Enel’s nominee to our board of directors. In addition, Enel agreed to vote for our board’s recommendations for the election of directors, approval of accountants, approval of Echelon’s equity compensation plans, and certain other matters. As a result, our directors and executive officers, together with certain entities affiliated with them, may be able to control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all directors and approval of certain other corporate matters. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous governmental regulations concerning the manufacturing and use of our products. We must stay in compliance with all such regulations and any future regulations. Any failure to comply with such regulations, and the unanticipated costs of complying with future regulations, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We manufacture and sell products that contain electronic components that may contain materials that are subject to government regulation in the locations in which our products are manufactured and assembled, as well as the locations where we sell our products. Since we operate on a global basis, maintaining compliance with regulations concerning the materials used in our products is a complex process that requires continual monitoring of regulations and ongoing compliance procedures. While we do not currently know of any proposed regulations regarding components in our products that would have a material impact on our business, the adoptions of any unanticipated new regulations that significantly impact the various components we use or require that we use more expensive components would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturing processes, including the processes used by our suppliers, are also subject to numerous governmental regulations that cover both the use of various materials as well as environmental concerns. Since we and our suppliers operate on a global basis, maintaining compliance with regulations concerning our production processes is also a complex process that requires continual monitoring of regulations and ongoing compliance procedures. For example, environmental issues such as pollution and climate change have seen significant legislative and regulatory interest on a global basis. Changes in these areas could directly increase the cost of energy, which may have an impact on the way we or our suppliers manufacture products or use energy to produce our products. In addition, any new regulations or laws in the environmental area might increase the cost of raw materials we use in our products. We are currently unable to predict how any such changes will impact us and if any such impact could be material to our business. Any new law or regulation that significantly increases our costs of manufacturing or causes us or our suppliers to significantly alter the way that our products are manufactured would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters, power outages, and other factors outside of our control such as widespread pandemics could disrupt our business. We must protect our business and our network infrastructure against damage from earthquake, flood, hurricane and similar events, as well as from power outages. A natural disaster, power outage, or other unanticipated problem could also adversely affect our business by, among other things, harming our primary data center or other internal operations, limiting our ability to communicate with our customers, and limiting our ability to sell our products. We do not insure against several natural disasters, including earthquakes. Any outbreak of a widespread communicable disease pandemic, such as the outbreak of the H1N1 influenza virus in 2009 or the SARS epidemic of 2003, could similarly impact our operations. Such impact could include, among other things, the inability for our sales and operations personnel located in affected regions to travel and conduct business freely, the impact any such disease may have on one or more of the distributors for our products in those regions, and increased supply chain costs. Additionally, any future health-related disruptions at our third-party contract manufacturers or other key suppliers could affect our ability to supply our customers with products in a timely manner, which would harm our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 