ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Interested persons should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Now that the deployment phase of the Enel project has been completed, our overall revenue has declined and may decline further. We completed our deliveries under the deployment phase of the Enel project during 2005. We currently expect that our revenues from Enel and its meter manufacturers will decline significantly, from $26.9 million in 2005 to approximately $7.0 million in 2006. We do not currently anticipate any material revenues from Enel thereafter. Accordingly, we continue to seek new revenue opportunities with other utility companies around the world. 16 We believe that utility companies generally require a lengthier sales cycle than do most of our other customers. For example, in December 2005 we announced the Swedish utility, Vattenfall AB, had selected our NES system for deployment in part of its service territory. Prior to this award, our VAR partner, Telvent, and we had been discussing the benefits of the NES system with Vattenfall for about three years. In addition, in many instances, one or more field trials of our NES system products may be required before a final decision is made by the utility. For example, a subsidiary of Nuon, a utility grid operator located in the Netherlands, completed a limited field trial of our NES system within its service territory in early 2005. In early 2006, Nuon selected our NES system for deployment in part of its service territory. Once that effort is completed, which we believe will happen in late 2006 or early 2007, we expect Nuon will issue a public tender for an even larger deployment within their service territory. However, there is no guarantee that we will win that tender, if and when Nuon decides to issue it. In addition, there is generally an extended development and integration effort required in order to incorporate the new technology into the utility’s existing infrastructure. Once a utility decides to move forward with a large-scale deployment of our NES system, the timing of, and our ability to recognize revenue on, our NES system product shipments will depend on several factors, including, but not limited to, the shipment schedules included in the contracts and certain contractual provisions, such as acceptance of all or any part of the system by the utility. For example, under the terms of our current arrangement with Nuon, there are significant customer acceptance provisions that will require us to defer revenue recognition until Nuon accepts the system, which we currently expect will happen in late 2006 or early 2007. In addition, the complex revenue recognition rules relating to products such as our NES system could also require us to defer some or all of the revenue associated with NES product shipments until certain conditions are met in a future period. In some instances, the reasons for these deferrals may not be fully under our control, which could result in the actual timing of revenue being significantly different than we currently anticipate. Due to the extended sales cycle and the additional development and integration time required, as well as the uncertainty of the timing of our NES revenues, we are not certain that we will be able to completely replace the expected $19.9 million reduction in Enel revenues in 2006. As a result, our 2006 revenues, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. Although we have invested substantial amounts of time and money into our NES system, our utility market product offerings may fail to meet customers’ expectations, or may fail to meet our financial targets. If we incur penalties and/or damages with respect to sales of the NES system, such penalties and/or damages could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, and operating results. To be successful in our efforts to sell our NES system, we have invested and intend to continue investing significant resources in its development. For example, in April 2003 we acquired certain assets of Metering Technology Corporation, or MTC, for $11.0 million in cash and the assumption of certain liabilities. Among the assets acquired was the right to use MTC’s developed electricity meter technology. As we have integrated their technology into our NES system, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant development costs. We cannot assure you that our NES system will be accepted in the utility market place to the extent required for us to realize a reasonable return on our investments in developing the system. For example, in order to realize all of the benefits of the NES system, a utility must replace a significant portion of its metering infrastructure with a homogenous population of intelligent, networked meters. In addition, even if the NES system meets a utility’s technical specifications, we may not be able to meet all of the utility’s contractual requirements. We also cannot assure you that, if accepted by the utilities, our NES system will generate economic returns that meet our financial targets. For example, revenues from our NES system offering may be lower than we anticipate, as was the case for actual versus targeted NES system revenues for both 2004 and 2005. The timing of these revenues could also fluctuate from our business plan for a variety of reasons, including changes in shipping schedules, contractual provisions such as customer acceptance, and complex revenue recognition rules related to sales of products consisting of multiple elements such as our NES system. Additionally, when we do recognize revenue on sales of our NES system products, we expect the gross margins generated from such sales will be lower than those generated by most of our other products. Even if we are successful in penetrating the utility market with our NES system offering, we face competition from many companies. For example, Enel, our largest customer for the last several years, has designed a system that it may use to compete with our NES system using third party products instead of our products. Enel has significantly greater experience and financial, technical, and other resources than we have. Enel previously announced an alliance with IBM to market and sell metering systems worldwide. We do not currently believe that our company will contribute to that alliance. Other competitors, including Actaris, DCSI, Elster, Hunt Technologies, Itron, Iskraemeco, Landis and Gyr, Nexus, and Ramar, as well as our own customers such as Enermet, Horstmann Controls, Kamstrup, and Metrima, have also developed and are marketing their own multi-service metering systems that compete with our NES system offering. We believe that our NES system will compete with other offerings both in terms of technical capabilities as well as price, warranties, indemnities, penalties, and other contractual provisions. 17 In addition, we presently plan to sell our NES products to utilities either directly or through resellers or other partners. If we sell the NES system directly to a utility, the utility may require us to assume responsibility for installing the NES system in the utility's territory, integrating the NES system into the utility's operating and billing system, overseeing management of the combined system, and undertaking other activities. These are services that we generally would not be responsible for if we sold our NES products through a reseller or other partner, or if we sold directly to a utility that managed those activities on its own. To date, we do not have any significant experience with those services. As a result, if we sold directly to a utility that required us to provide those services, we may be required to contract with third parties to satisfy those obligations. We cannot assure you that we would find appropriate third parties to provide those services on reasonable terms, or at all. Assuming responsibility for these or other services would add to the costs and risks associated with NES system installations, and could also negatively affect the timing of our revenues and cash flows related to these transactions. Lastly, sales of the NES system will expose us to penalties, damages and other liabilities relating to late deliveries, late or improper installations or operations, failure to meet product specifications, failure to achieve performance specifications, indemnities or otherwise. If we are unsuccessful in deploying the NES system, or otherwise fail to meet our financial targets for the NES system, our revenues, results of operations, and financial position will be harmed. Compliance with new rules and regulations concerning hazardous materials is costly and time-consuming, and may result in increased costs and a reduction in, or changes in the timing of, our expected revenues. We are in the process of implementing programs to comply with newly enacted Restrictions on Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, regulations that require certain manufacturers, such as Echelon, to eliminate hazardous substances (e.g., lead, cadmium, mercury, etc.) from the commercial products that are sold to customers in the European Union and Japan. These new rules become effective in 2006. Transitioning our products from non-compliant to RoHS-compliant is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. During the transition, we face several risks, including, but not limited to, risks that we will be unable to successfully develop RoHS compliant alternatives for our existing non-RoHS compliant products, that we will be unable to complete the transition in a timely manner, that our contract electronic manufacturers will not be able to produce our RoHS compliant products in a timely and cost effective manner, and that the costs associated with this development effort will be higher than originally anticipated. In addition, we face the risk that, in order to minimize any exposure to excess non-RoHS compliant inventories, our customers, including our distributors such as EBV, may reduce their inventory levels significantly from historical levels. While we expect that, once the transition is complete, our customers would restore their inventories back to historical levels, such action by our customers and/or distributors could result in a reduction in expected revenue in early 2006 due to the timing of these inventory level adjustments. Lastly, we also face the risk that, in transitioning our products to comply with these new regulations, we could ourselves be left with excess quantities of non-RoHS compliant inventory for which an excess and obsolete inventory reserve would be required. If any of these risks materialize, our revenues, results of operations, and financial position could be harmed. In 2006 we will be required to take a compensation expense for the value of stock options or other compensatory equity-based awards that we issue to our employees, which will harm our results of operations. We believe that stock options are a key element in our ability to attract and retain employees in the markets in which we operate. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment: an amendment of FASB Statements No. 123 and 95. SFAS 123R requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of stock options and other stock-based compensation granted to employees and other service providers. For Echelon, the new rules will become effective in the first quarter of 2006. Prior to 2006, we used the intrinsic value method to measure compensation expense for stock-based awards to our employees. Under this standard, we generally have not considered stock option grants issued under our employee stock option plans to be compensation when the exercise price of the stock option is equal to or greater than the fair market value on the date of grant. Beginning in 2006, we will be required to take a compensation charge as stock options or other stock-based compensation awards are issued or as they vest, including the unvested portion of options that were granted on or before December 31, 2005. This compensation charge will be based on a calculated value of the option or other stock-based award using a complex methodology, and which may not correlate to the current market price of our stock. In addition, this calculation will require management to use several estimates, any one of which could have a significant impact on the option’s calculated fair value. If any of these estimates prove to be different from actual results, the fair value of the option could be significantly under or over stated. We currently expect that, once we adopt SFAS 123R, the additional compensation expense we will be required to record will result in a material reduction in our reported gross margins as compared to prior years as well as a material increase in our operating expenses from historical levels. This will in turn result in reduced earnings and earnings per share. 18 Our markets are highly competitive. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than we do. If we are unable to effectively compete in the industry, our operating results would be harmed. Competition in our markets is intense and involves rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, and rapid changes in customer requirements. To maintain and improve our competitive position, we must continue to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products, features and services that keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers. The principal competitive factors that affect the markets for our control network products include the following: · our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis; · our product reputation, quality, and performance; · the price and features of our products such as adaptability, scalability, functionality, ease of use, and the ability to integrate with other products; · our customer service and support; and · warranties, indemnities, and other contractual terms. In each of our markets, we compete with a wide array of manufacturers, vendors, strategic alliances, systems developers and other businesses. For our LONWORKS Infrastructure products, our competitors include some of the largest companies in the electronics industry, such as Siemens in the building and industrial automation industries, and Allen-Bradley (a subsidiary of Rockwell Automation) and Groupe Schneider in the industrial automation industry. Many of our competitors, alone or together with their trade associations and partners, have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, significantly greater name recognition, and broader product offerings. As a result, these competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, and sale of their products, and may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements or product technology. In addition, those competitors that manufacture and promote closed, proprietary control systems may enjoy a captive customer base dependent on such competitors for service, maintenance, upgrades and enhancements. Products from other companies such as Digi International, emWare, Ipsil, JumpTec, Lantronix, Microsoft, and Wind River Systems, as well as certain micro-controller manufacturers including Freescale (formerly Motorola), Texas Instruments, Micro Chip, and Philips, all of which promote directly connecting devices to the Internet, could also compete with our products. In addition, in the utilities market, products from companies such as Actaris, DCSI, Elster, Hunt Technologies, Itron, Iskraemeco, Landis and Gyr, Nexus, and Ramar, each of which offers automatic meter reading products for the utility industry, as well as metering systems from our customers such as Enel, Enermet, Horstmann Controls, Kamstrup, and Metrima, could compete with our NES system. For example, Enel, working with IBM, competes with our NES system using third party products instead of our products. Enel and IBM, as well as several other named competitors, have significantly greater experience and financial, technical, and other resources than we have. If we are unable to compete effectively in any of the markets we serve, our revenues, results of operations, and financial position could be harmed. As a result of our lengthy sales cycle, we have limited ability to forecast the amount and timing of revenue related to specific sales. If we fail to complete or are delayed in completing transactions, our revenues could vary significantly from period to period. The sales cycle between initial customer contact and execution of a contract or license agreement with a customer can vary widely. For example, OEMs, as well as utilities that may be interested in our NES system, typically conduct extensive and lengthy product evaluations before making initial purchases of our products. They may further delay subsequent purchases of our products due to their own prolonged product development, system integration, and product introduction periods. Delays in our sales cycle can also result from, among other things: · changes in our customers’ budgets; · changes in the priority our customers assign to control network development; · the time it takes for us to educate our customers about the potential applications of and cost savings associated with our products; · the deployment schedule for projects undertaken by our utility or systems integrator customers; · the actions of utility regulators or management boards regarding investments in metering systems; · delays in installing, operating, and evaluating the results of NES system field trials; and · the time it takes for utilities to evaluate multiple competing bids, negotiate terms, and award contracts for large scale metering system deployments. 19 We generally have little or no control over these factors, which may cause a potential customer to favor a competitor’s products, or to delay or forgo purchases altogether. If any of these factors prevent or substantially delay our ability to complete a transaction, our revenues and results of operations could be harmed. If we do not maintain adequate distribution channels for our LONWORKS Infrastructure products or our NES system products, our revenues will be harmed significantly. Currently, significant portions of our revenues are derived from sales to distributors, including EBV, the sole independent distributor of our products to OEMs in Europe. Sales to EBV, our largest distributor, accounted for 21.0% of our total net revenues in 2005, 14.4% of our total net revenues in 2004, and 10.2% of our total net revenues in 2003. Worldwide sales to distributors, including those to EBV, accounted for approximately 28.9% of total net revenues in 2005, 19.8% of our total net revenues in 2004, and 14.6% of our total net revenues in 2003. Our current agreement with EBV, which has been in effect since 1997, expires in December 2006. If EBV, or any other existing or future distributor, fails to dedicate sufficient resources and efforts to marketing and selling our products, our revenues could decrease. If EBV significantly reduces its inventory levels for our products, both our revenues and customer service levels would decrease. If we do not maintain our agreement with EBV, we would be required to locate another distributor or add our own pan-European distribution capability to meet the needs of our customers. In that event, our business could be harmed during the transition period as EBV’s inventory of our products was sold but not replaced. Moreover, any replacement distribution channel could prove less effective than EBV. In addition, if we were to modify the contractual return rights, or otherwise change the terms of our agreement with EBV or any of our other distributors, we could be required to defer the revenue on sales made to these distributors until such time as the distributors sold the products to their end-user customers. Such a change in our revenue recognition for these sales could result in a material reduction in our revenues in the period when we modify the distributor agreement(s). We market our NES system products directly, as well as through selected value added resellers, or VARs, and integration partners. We believe that a significant portion of our NES system sales will be made through our VARs and integration partners, rather than directly by our company. To date, our VARs and integration partners have greater experience in overseeing projects for utilities. As a result, if our relationships with our VARs and integration partners are not successful, or if we are not able to create similar distribution channels for our NES system business with other companies, our NES system business may not be successful or may otherwise not meet our financial targets, which will harm our revenues and operating results. The undetermined market acceptance of our products makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. We face a number of risks as a company in a rapidly changing and developing market, and you must consider our prospects in light of the associated risks. This is true of both our LONWORKS Infrastructure products and our NES system products. Our future operating results are difficult to predict due to many factors, including the following: · some of our targeted markets have not yet accepted many of our products and technologies; · many of our customers do not fully support open, interoperable networks, and this reduces the market for our products; · we may not anticipate changes in customer requirements and, even if we do so, we may not be able to develop new or improved products that meet these requirements in a timely manner, or at all; · the markets in which we operate require rapid and continuous development of new products, and we have failed to meet some of our product development schedules in the past; · potential changes in voluntary product standards around the world can significantly influence the markets in which we operate; and · our industry is very competitive and many of our competitors have far greater resources and may be prepared to provide financial support from their other businesses in order to compete with us. Compliance with new rules and regulations concerning corporate governance is costly, time-consuming, and difficult to achieve, which could harm our operating results and business. 20 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the Act, which was signed into law in 2002, mandates, among other things, that companies adopt new corporate governance measures and imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements. The Act also imposes increased civil and criminal penalties on a corporation, its chief executive and chief financial officers, and members of its board of directors, for securities law violations. In addition, the Nasdaq National Market, on which our common stock is traded, has adopted and is considering the adoption of additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. These rules, laws, and regulations have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of our corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices. Because compliance with these new rules, laws, and regulations is costly and time-consuming, our management’s attention could be diverted from managing our day-to-day business operations, and our operating expenses could increase. In addition, because of the inherent limitations in all financial control systems, it is possible that a material weakness may be found in our internal controls over financial reporting, which could affect our ability to insure proper financial reporting. For example, as described more fully in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, in October 2005 we identified a material weakness in our internal controls over revenue recognition at our Japanese subsidiary. In the future, these developments could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. We depend on a limited number of key manufacturers and use contract electronic manufacturers for most of our products requiring assembly. If any of these manufacturers terminates or decreases its relationships with us, we may not be able to supply our products and our revenues would suffer. The Neuron Chip is an important component that our customers use in control network devices. In addition, the Neuron Chip is an important device that we use in many of our products. Neuron Chips are currently manufactured and distributed by Toshiba and Cypress Semiconductor under license agreements we maintain with them. These agreements, among other things, grant Toshiba and Cypress the worldwide right to manufacture and distribute Neuron Chips using technology licensed from us, and require us to provide support, as well as unspecified updates to the licensed technology, over the terms of the agreements. The Cypress agreement expires in April 2009 and the Toshiba agreement expires in January 2010. However, we cannot be certain that these manufacturers will continue to supply Neuron Chips until these contracts expire, and we currently have no other source of supply for Neuron Chips. If either Toshiba or Cypress were to cease designing, manufacturing, and distributing Neuron Chips, we could be forced to rely on a sole supplier for Neuron Chips. If both Toshiba and Cypress were to exit this business, we would attempt to find a replacement. This would be an expensive and time-consuming process, with no guarantee that we would be able to find an acceptable alternative source. We also maintain manufacturing agreements with other semiconductor manufacturers for the production of key products, including those used in the Enel Project and our NES system. For example, in 2003 we announced a new product family that we refer to as Power Line Smart Transceivers. A sole source supplier, STMicroelectronics, manufactures these products. We currently have no other source of supply for Power Line Smart Transceivers or the components manufactured by Cypress and AMI Semiconductor. Our future success will also depend significantly on our ability to manufacture our products cost-effectively, in sufficient volumes and in accordance with quality standards. For most of our products requiring assembly, we use contract electronic manufacturers, including WKK Technology, TYCO TEPC/Transpower, and World Fair International. These contract electronic manufacturers procure material and assemble, test, and inspect the final products to our specifications. This strategy involves certain risks. By using third parties to manufacture our products, we have reduced control over quality, costs, delivery schedules, product availability, and manufacturing yields. For instance, quality problems at a contract equipment manufacturer could result in missed shipments to our customers and unusable inventory. Such delays could, among other things, reduce our revenues, increase our costs by increasing our inventory reserves, and cause us to incur penalties. In addition, contract electronic manufacturers can themselves experience turnover and instability, exposing us to additional risks as well as missed commitments to our customers. 21 We will also face risks if and when we transition between contract electronic manufacturers. When we transition, we may have to move raw material and in-process inventory between locations in different parts of the world. Also, we would be required to reestablish acceptable manufacturing processes with a new work force. We could also be liable for excess or unused inventory held by contract manufacturers for use in our products. This inventory may become obsolete as a result of engineering changes that we make. In addition, we may no longer need this inventory because of factors such as changes in our production build plans, miscommunication between us and a contract manufacturer, or errors made by a contract manufacturer in ordering material for use in our products. Under our contracts with these contract electronic manufacturers, we would become liable for all or some of these excess or obsolete inventories. The failure of any key manufacturer to produce products on time, at agreed quality levels, and fully compliant with our product, assembly and test specifications could adversely affect our revenues and gross profit, and could result in claims against us by our customers. Since we depend on sole or a limited number of suppliers, any price increases, shortages, or interruptions of supply would adversely affect our revenues and/or gross profits. As previously discussed, we currently purchase several key products and components only from sole or limited sources. For some of these suppliers, we do not maintain signed agreements that would obligate them to supply to us on negotiated terms. As a result, we may be vulnerable to price increases for products or components. In addition, in the past, we have occasionally experienced shortages or interruptions in supply for certain of these items, which caused us to delay shipments beyond targeted or announced dates. To help address these issues, we may decide to purchase quantities of these items that are in excess of our estimated requirements. As a result, we could be forced to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, which could harm our operating results. If we experience any shortage of products or components of acceptable quality, or any interruption in the supply of these products or components, or if we are not able to procure these products or components from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable period of time, our revenues, gross profits or both could decrease. In addition, under the terms of some of our contracts with our customers, we may also be subject to penalties if we fail to deliver our products on time. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or found that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others or if our customers are concerned about the potential for such infringement. Although we attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our product development efforts, from time to time we may receive notice that a third party believes that our products may be infringing certain patents or other intellectual property rights of that third party. We may also be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers or other third parties that use our products in the event they are alleged to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights. Responding to those claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources and cause us to incur significant expenses. Thus, even if our products do not infringe, we may elect to take a license or settle to avoid incurring such costs. In the event our products are infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others, we may elect or be required to redesign our products so that they do not incorporate any intellectual property to which the third party has or claims rights. As a result, some of our product offerings could be delayed, or we could be required to cease distributing some of our products. In the alternative, we could seek a license for the third party’s intellectual property, but it is possible that we would not be able to obtain such a license on reasonable terms, or at all. Any delays that we might then suffer or additional expenses that we might then incur could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our customers may not pursue product opportunities based on their concerns regarding third party intellectual property rights, particularly patents, and this could reduce the market opportunity for the sale of our products and services. We have a history of losses and, although we achieved profitability in prior years, we expect to incur substantial losses again in 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we generated a loss of $19.7 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $84.1 million. We have invested and expect to continue investing significant financial resources in product development, marketing and sales. We believe we will incur a substantial loss in 2006. Consequently, we currently expect our cash and short-term investment balances to decline as a result of such losses. 22 Our future operating results will depend on many factors, including: · adoption of our NES solution and other products by service providers for use in utility and/or other home automation projects; · the timing of revenue recognition related to sales of our NES system products; · revenue growth of our LONWORKS Infrastructure products; · continuation of worldwide economic growth, particularly in certain industries such as semiconductor manufacturing equipment; · the ability of our contract electronic manufacturers to provide quality products on a timely basis, especially during periods where excess capacity in the contract electronic manufacturing market is reduced; · growth in acceptance of our products by OEMs, systems integrators, service providers and end-users; · the effect of expensing stock option grants or other compensatory awards to our employees, when such requirements become effective in 2006; · our ability to attract new customers in light of increased competition; · our ability to develop and market, in a timely and cost-effective way, new products that perform as designed; · costs associated with any future business acquisitions, including up-front in-process research and development charges and ongoing amortization expenses related to other identified intangible assets; · ongoing operational expenses associated with any future business acquisitions; · results of impairment tests that we will perform from time to time in the future, in accordance with SFAS 142, with respect to goodwill and other identified intangible assets that we acquired in the past or that we may acquire in the future. If the results of these impairment tests indicate that an impairment event has taken place, we will be required to take an asset impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; and · general economic conditions. As of December 31, 2005, we had net operating loss carry forwards for federal income tax reporting purposes of approximately $81.0 million and for state income tax reporting purposes of approximately $16.5 million, which expire at various dates through 2025. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, we had tax credit carry forwards of approximately $12.4 million, $6.7 million of which expires at various dates through 2025. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, contains provisions that limit the use in future periods of net operating loss and credit carry forwards upon the occurrence of certain events, including significant changes in ownership interests. We have performed an analysis of our ownership changes and have reported the net operating loss and credit carry forwards considering such limitations. As of December 31, 2005, our deferred tax assets, including our net operating loss carry forwards and tax credits, totaled approximately $52.2 million. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986 also contains provisions requiring companies to fully utilize net operating losses before utilizing tax credits. As a result, depending on our future taxable income in any given year, some or all of the Federal increased research tax credits, as well as portions of our federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, may expire before being utilized. Consequently, we have recorded a valuation allowance for the entire deferred tax asset as a result of uncertainties regarding the realization of the asset balance, our history of losses, and the variability of our operating results. We face operational and financial risks associated with international operations. Our international sales and marketing operations are located in nine countries around the world. Revenues from international sales, which include both export sales and sales by international subsidiaries, accounted for about 77.1% of our total net revenues in 2005, 85.2% of our total net revenues in 2004, and 86.5% of our total net revenues in 2003. We expect that international sales will continue to constitute a significant portion of our total net revenues. Our operations and the market price of our products may be directly affected by economic and political conditions in the countries where we do business. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase the international demand for our products. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include the following: · international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; · currency fluctuations; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers; · costs of localizing products for foreign countries and lack of acceptance of non-local products in foreign countries; 23 · longer accounts receivable payment cycles; · difficulties in managing international operations; · labor actions generally affecting individual countries, regions, or any of our customers which could result in reduced demand for our products; · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; and · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Differing vacation and holiday patterns in other countries, particularly in Europe, may also affect the amount of business that we transact in other countries in any given quarter, the timing of our revenues, and our ability to forecast projected operating results for such quarter. Fluctuations in the value of currencies in which we conduct our business relative to the U.S. dollar could cause currency translation adjustments. The portion of our revenues conducted in currencies other than the United States dollar, principally the Japanese Yen, was about 4.6% in 2005, 3.2% in 2004, and 3.8% in 2003. In addition, much of our sales and marketing expenses, as well as certain other costs, are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For example, in 2005 China revalued its currency, the Chinese Renminbi, against the U.S. dollar. Although the adjustment has not resulted in a material change to the costs for goods and services we obtain from our suppliers and contractors in China, any future revaluations of the Chinese currency against the U.S. dollar could result in significant cost increases. If the value of the U.S. dollar declines as compared to the local currency where the expenses are incurred, our expenses, when translated back into U.S. dollars, will increase. The use of the Euro as the standard currency in participating European countries may also impact our ability to transact sales in U.S. dollars. We have agreed with EBV, our European distributor, that upon notice from EBV, we will sell our products to EBV in European Euros rather than U.S. dollars. We do not know when or if EBV will give such notice. If fewer of our sales in Europe are transacted in U.S. dollars, we may experience an increase in currency translation adjustments, particularly as a result of general economic conditions in Europe as a whole. We do not currently engage in currency hedging transactions or otherwise cover our foreign currency exposure. In addition, we expect that many foreign utilities will require us to price our NES system in the respective utility’s local currency, which will expose us to foreign currency risk. In most cases, in the event of a contract award, we intend to hedge this foreign currency risk so long as we can secure forward currency contracts that are reasonably priced and that are consistent with the scheduled deliveries for that project. In addition, we will face foreign currency exposures from the time we submit our foreign currency denominated bid until the award of a contract by the utility (the “bid to award” term). This bid to award term can often exceed several months. If a utility awards us a contract that gives the utility the right to exercise options for additional supply in the future, we would also be exposed to foreign currency risk until such time as these options, if any, were exercised. We may decide that it is too expensive to hedge the foreign currency risks during the bid to award term or for any unexercised options. Any resulting adverse foreign currency fluctuations could significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, that began in China, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Vietnam in 2003 also had a negative impact on our business. Any future outbreak of SARS, or other widespread communicable diseases such as avian influenza, more commonly know as bird flu, could similarly impact our operations. Such impact could include, among other things, the inability for our sales and operations personnel located in affected regions to travel and conduct business freely, the impact any such disease may have on one or more of the distributors for our products in those regions, and increased supply chain costs. Additionally, any future SARS or other health-related disruptions at our third-party contract manufacturers or other key suppliers, many of whom are located in China and other parts of southeast Asia, could affect our ability to supply our customers with products in a timely manner. Fluctuations in our operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual results have varied significantly from period to period, and we have sometimes failed to meet securities analysts’ expectations. For example, although we generated net income ranging from $84,000 to $16.8 million during the years from 2000 to 2004, in 2005 we generated a net loss of $19.7 million. We expect to incur a substantial loss again in 2006, and our future results may continue to fluctuate and may not meet analysts’ expectations in some future period. As a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate or decline. Some factors that could cause this variability, many of which are outside of our control, include the following: 24 · the complex revenue recognition rules relating to products such our NES system could require us to defer some or all of the revenue associated with NES product shipments until certain conditions are met in a future period; · revenue recognition for sales of our NES system products may be dependent on acceptance criteria determined by our NES system customers; · our products may not be manufactured in accordance with specifications or our established quality standards, or may not perform as designed; · our future operating results will be materially adversely effected by the expense required to be recorded under SFAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, which becomes effective in 2006; · we may fail to meet analysts’ expectations relating to our NES system and additional utility customers and applications; · we may fail to meet analysts’ expectations for revenue growth in our sales of LONWORKS Infrastructure products to OEMs, systems integrators, and other customers; · transitioning from non-RoHS compliant to RoHS compliant products could cause our customers to reduce their historical inventory levels, which could reduce our revenues; · the rates at which OEMs purchase our products and services may fluctuate; · we may fail to introduce new products on a timely basis or before the end of an existing product’s life cycle; · downturns in any customer’s or potential customer’s business, or declines in general economic conditions, could cause significant reductions in capital spending, thereby reducing the levels of orders from our customers; · we may face increased competition for both our LONWORKS Infrastructure products and our NES products; · market acceptance of our products may decrease; · our customers may delay or cancel their orders; · the mix of products and services that we sell may change to a less profitable mix; · shipment and payment schedules may be delayed; · our pricing policies or those of our competitors may change; · we could incur costs associated with future business acquisitions, including up-front in-process research and development charges and ongoing amortization expenses related to other identified intangible assets; · we could incur ongoing operational expenses associated with future business acquisitions; · the results of impairment tests that we will perform from time to time in the future, in accordance with SFAS 142, with respect to goodwill and other identified intangible assets that we acquired in the past or that we may acquire in the future may indicate that an impairment event has taken place. If so, we will be required to take an asset impairment charge that could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; · our product distribution may change; and · product ratings by industry analysts and endorsements of competing products by industry groups could hurt the market acceptance of our products. In addition, our expense levels are based, in significant part, on the future revenues that we expect. Consequently, if our revenues are less than we expect, our expense levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of total revenues, which would negatively affect our profitability and cause our stock price to decline. Many of our competitors develop, support, and promote alternative control systems. If we are unable to promote and expand acceptance of our open, interoperable control systems, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. 25 Many of our current and prospective competitors are dedicated to promoting closed or proprietary systems, technologies, software and network protocols or product standards that differ from or are incompatible with ours. In some cases, companies have established associations or cooperative relationships to enhance the competitiveness and popularity of their products, or to promote these different or incompatible technologies, protocols and standards. For example, in the building automation market, we face widespread reluctance by vendors of traditional closed or proprietary control systems, who enjoy a captive market for servicing and replacing equipment, to use our interoperable technologies. We also face strong competition by large trade associations that promote alternative technologies and standards in their native countries, such as the Konnex Association in Belgium, and the European Installation Bus Association in Germany, each of which has over 100 members and licensees. Other examples include various industry groups who promote alternative open standards such as BACnet in the building market, DALI in the lighting controls market, Echonet in the home control market, and a group comprised of ABB, Adtranz/Bombardier, Siemens, GEC Alstrom and other manufacturers that support an alternative rail transportation protocol to our LONWORKS protocol. Our technologies, protocols, or standards may not be successful in any of our markets, and we may not be able to compete with new or enhanced products or standards introduced by existing or future competitors. Defects in or misuse of our products or other liabilities not covered by insurance may delay our ability to generate revenues and may increase our liabilities and expenses. Our products may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced, as new versions are released, or as a result of the manufacturing process. For example, many of the products we have sold to Enel remain under warranty, and Enel may claim that some of them are defective. Also, in NES trials, undetected errors may hinder our ability to win a subsequent tender. In addition, our customers or their installation partners may improperly install or implement our products. Furthermore, because of the low cost and interoperable nature of our products, LONWORKS technology could be used in a manner for which it was not intended. If errors or failures are found in our products, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Such errors or failures could delay our product shipments and divert our engineering resources while we attempt to correct them. In addition, we could decide to extend the warranty period, or incur other costs outside of our normal warranty coverage, to help address any known errors or failures in our products and mitigate the impact on our customers. As a result, errors or failures in our products, or the improper installation or implementation of our products by third parties, could harm our reputation, reduce our revenues, increase our expenses, and negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. To address these issues, the agreements we maintain with our customers typically contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to potential errors and omissions claims as well as any liabilities arising from them. In certain very limited instances, these agreements require that we be named as an additional insured on our customers’ insurance policies. However, our customer contracts and additional insured coverage may not effectively protect us against the liabilities and expenses associated with errors or failures attributable to our products. For example, utility customers purchasing our NES system may require that we agree to indemnities or penalties in excess of the provisions we typically employ with our LONWORKS Infrastructure products, or that are not limited at all. Also, local laws may impose liability for NES system or other product failures, including liability for harm to property or persons. Such failures could harm our reputation, expose our company to liability, and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We may also experience losses or potential losses in the event of property damage, liability for harm to a third party’s property or person, claims against our directors or officers, and the like. To help reduce our exposure to these types of claims, we currently maintain property, general commercial liability, errors and omissions, directors and officers, and other lines of insurance. However, it is possible that such insurance may not be available in the future or, if available, may be insufficient in amount to cover any particular claim, or we might not carry insurance that covers a specific claim. For example, during 2000, the total limit for claims under our errors and omissions insurance policy was $17.0 million. Since then, we have reduced the total limit for this line of coverage to $10.0 million because we believed the premiums our insurers requested were excessive. We believe that the premiums for the types of insurance we carry will continue to fluctuate from period to period. In times of significant cost increases, this could result in increased costs or reduced limits. Consequently, if we elect to reduce our coverage further, or if we do not carry insurance for a particular type of claim, we will face increased exposure to these types of claims. If liability for a claim exceeds our policy limits, our operating results and our financial position would be negatively affected. 26 We promote an open technology platform that could increase our competition. LONWORKS technology is open, meaning that many of our technology patents are broadly licensed without royalties or license fees. As a result, our customers are capable of developing hardware and software solutions that compete with some of our products. Because some of our customers are OEMs that develop and market their own control systems, these customers in particular could develop competing products based on our open technology. For instance, all of the network management commands required to develop software that competes with our LNS software are published. This could decrease the demand for our products and increase the competition that we face. Downturns in the control network technology market and related markets may decrease our revenues and margins. The market for our products depends on economic conditions affecting the broader control network technology and related markets. Downturns in these markets may cause our OEMs and system integrators to delay or cancel projects, reduce their production or reduce or cancel orders for our products. In this environment, customers may experience financial difficulty, cease operations or fail to budget for the purchase of our products. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in payment and collection, and price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenues and margins. In particular, capital spending in the technology sector has decreased in past years, and many of our customers and potential customers have experienced declines in their revenues and operations. In addition, concerns with respect to terrorism and geopolitical issues in the Middle East and Asia have added more uncertainty to the current economic environment. We cannot predict the impact of these events, or of any related military action, on our customers or business. We believe that, in light of these events, some businesses may further curtail or may eliminate capital spending on control network technology altogether. If capital spending in our markets declines, or does not increase, it may be necessary for us to gain significant market share from our competitors in order to achieve our financial goals and return to profitability. If our OEMs do not employ our products and technologies our revenues could decrease significantly. To date, a substantial portion of our product sales has been to OEMs. The product and marketing decisions made by OEMs significantly affect the rate at which our products are used in control networks. We believe that because OEMs in certain industries receive a large portion of their revenues from sales of products and services to their installed base, these OEMs have tended to moderate the rate at which they incorporate LONWORKS technology into their products. They may believe that a more rapid transition to LONWORKS technology could harm their installed base business. Furthermore, OEMs that manufacture and promote products and technologies that compete or may compete with us may be particularly reluctant to employ our products and technologies to any significant extent, if at all. We may not be able to maintain or improve the current rate at which our products are accepted by OEMs and others, which could decrease our revenues. We have limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends significantly upon our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect these intellectual property rights, all of which afford only limited protection. As of February 28, 2006, we have 95 issued U.S. patents, 11 pending U.S. patent applications, and various foreign counterparts. It is possible that patents will not issue from these pending applications or from any future applications or that, if issued, any claims allowed will not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, we may not apply for or obtain patents in each country in which our technology may be used. If any of our patents fail to protect our technology, or if we do not obtain patents in certain countries, our competitors may find it easier to offer equivalent or superior technology. We have registered or applied for registration for certain trademarks, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. If we fail to properly register or maintain our trademarks or to otherwise take all necessary steps to protect our trademarks, the value associated with the trademarks may diminish. In addition, if we fail to take all necessary steps to protect our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, we may not be able to compete as effectively in our markets. 27 Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of the patents, trademarks, copyrights or intellectual property rights that have been or may be issued or granted to us could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and any of the rights granted may not provide protection for our proprietary rights. In addition, we cannot assure you that we have taken or will take all necessary steps to protect our intellectual property rights. Third parties may also independently develop similar technology without breach of our trade secrets or other proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past and may license in the future our key technologies to third parties. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries, including several in which we operate or sell our products, do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may take longer to receive a remedy from a court outside of the United States. For example, certain of our products are licensed under shrink-wrap license agreements that are not signed by licensees and therefore may not be binding under the laws of certain jurisdictions. From time to time, litigation may be necessary to defend and enforce our proprietary rights. As a result of this litigation, we could incur substantial costs and divert management resources, which could harm our business, regardless of the final outcome. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights both in the United States and abroad, we may be unsuccessful in doing so. Also, the steps that we take to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights may be inadequate to deter third parties from infringing, misusing, misappropriating, or independently developing our technology or intellectual property rights; or to prevent an unauthorized third party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our products or technology. If OEMs fail to develop interoperable products or if our targeted markets do not accept our interoperable products, we may be unable to generate sales of our products. Our future operating success will depend, in significant part, on the successful development of interoperable products by OEMs and us, and the acceptance of interoperable products by systems integrators and end-users. We have expended considerable resources to develop, market and sell interoperable products, and have made these products a cornerstone of our sales and marketing strategy. We have widely promoted interoperable products as offering benefits such as lower life-cycle costs and improved flexibility to owners and users of control networks. However, OEMs that manufacture and market closed systems may not accept, promote or employ interoperable products, since doing so may expose their businesses to increased competition. In addition, OEMs might not, in fact, successfully develop interoperable products, or their customers might not accept their interoperable products. If OEMs fail to develop interoperable products, or our markets do not accept interoperable products, our revenues and operating results will suffer. Our executive officers and technical personnel are critical to our business, and if we lose or fail to attract key personnel, we may not be able to successfully operate our business. Our performance depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Due to the specialized technical nature of our business, we are particularly dependent on our Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and our technical personnel. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales, operations and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our business areas is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel necessary to enable our business to succeed. Our product development and marketing functions are largely based in Silicon Valley, which is typically a highly competitive marketplace. It may be particularly difficult to recruit, relocate and retain qualified personnel in this geographic area. Moreover, the cost of living, including the cost of housing, in Silicon Valley is known to be high. Because we are legally prohibited from making loans to executive officers, we will not be able to assist potential key personnel as they acquire housing or incur other costs that might be associated with joining our company. In addition, if we lose the services of any of our key personnel and are not able to find replacements in a timely manner, our business could be disrupted, other key personnel may decide to leave, and we may incur increased operating expenses in finding and compensating their replacements. The markets for our products are rapidly evolving. If we are not able to develop or enhance products to respond to changing market conditions, our revenues will suffer. 28 Customer requirements for control network products can change as a result of innovations or changes within the building, industrial, transportation, utility/home and other industries. For example, our NES system offering to utilities is new. Also, new or different standards within industry segments may be adopted, giving rise to new customer requirements. These customer requirements may or may not be compatible with our current or future product offerings. Our future success depends in large part on our ability to continually enhance our existing product offerings, lower the market price for our products, and develop new products that maintain technological competitiveness. We may not be successful in modifying our products and services to address these requirements and standards. For example, certain of our competitors may develop competing technologies based on Internet Protocols (IP) that could have, or could be perceived to have, advantages over our products in remote monitoring or other applications. As another example, many competitors promote media types, such as radio frequency (wireless) and fiber optics that, even if used with LONWORKS technology, could displace sales of certain of our transceiver products. If we are not able to develop or enhance our products to respond to these changing market conditions, our revenues and results of operations will suffer. In addition, due to the nature of development efforts in general, we often experience delays in the introduction of new or improved products beyond our original projected shipping date for such products. Historically, when these delays have occurred, we experienced an increase in our development costs and a delay in our ability to generate revenues from these new products. We believe that similar new product introduction delays in the future could also increase our costs and delay our revenues. The trading price of our stock has been volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including: · significant stockholders may sell some or all of their holdings of our stock. For example, Enel presently owns 3,000,000 shares, or approximately 7.5% of our outstanding common stock. Enel is generally free to sell these shares at its discretion. In the event Enel, or any other significant stockholder, elects to sell all or a portion of their holdings in our shares, such sale or sales could depress the market price of our stock during the period in which such sales are made; · investors may be concerned about our ability to develop additional customers for our NES system products and the success we have selling our LONWORKS Infrastructure products and services to OEMs, systems integrators, and other customers; · investors may be concerned about the expense that we will be required to record for stock options and other stock-based incentives provided to our employees; · transitioning from non-RoHS compliant to RoHS compliant products could cause our customers to reduce their historical inventory levels, which could reduce our revenues; · competitors may announce new products or technologies; · our quarterly operating results may vary widely; · we or our customers may announce technological innovations or new products; · securities analysts may change their estimates of our financial results; and · increases in market interest rates, which generally have a negative impact on stock prices. In addition, the market price of securities of technology companies, especially those in rapidly evolving industries such as ours, has been very volatile in the past. This volatility in any given technology company’s stock price has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of that particular company. Voluntary standards that are established in our markets could limit our ability to sell our products and reduce our revenues. Standards bodies, which are formal and informal associations that attempt to set voluntary, non-governmental product standards, are influential in many of our target markets. Some of our competitors have attempted to use voluntary standards to reduce the market opportunity for our products, or to increase the market opportunity for their own products, by lobbying for the adoption of voluntary standards that would exclude or limit the use of products that incorporate our technology. We participate in many voluntary standards organizations around the world in order to both help prevent the adoption of exclusionary standards and to promote voluntary standards for our products. However, we do not have the resources to participate in all voluntary standards processes that may affect our markets. The adoption of voluntary standards that are incompatible with our products or technology could limit the market opportunity for our products. If the markets we target were to adopt voluntary standards that are incompatible with our products or technology, either inadvertently or by design, our revenues, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. 29 Regulatory actions could limit our ability to market and sell our products. Many of our products and the industries in which they are used are subject to U.S. and foreign regulation. Government regulatory action could greatly reduce the market for our products. For example, the power line medium, which is the communications medium used by some of our products, is subject to special regulations in North America, Europe and Japan. In general, these regulations limit the ability of companies to use power lines as a communication medium. In addition, some of our competitors have attempted to use regulatory actions to reduce the market opportunity for our products or to increase the market opportunity for their own products. Our existing stockholders control a significant percentage of our stock, which will limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 28, 2006, our directors and executive officers, together with certain entities affiliated with them (including, for this purpose, Enel, which has the right to nominate a director to our Board of Directors), beneficially owned 35.6% of our outstanding stock. Under the stock purchase agreement with Enel, which transaction was completed September 11, 2000, Enel purchased 3.0 million newly issued shares of our common stock and was granted the right to nominate a director to our Board of Directors. As a condition to the closing of the stock purchase agreement, our directors and our Chief Financial Officer agreed to enter into a voting agreement with Enel in which each of them agreed to vote the shares of our company’s common stock that they beneficially owned or controlled in favor of Enel’s nominee to our Board of Directors. In addition, under the terms of the stock purchase agreement, Enel has agreed to (i) vote (and cause any of its affiliates that own shares of our common stock to vote) all of its shares in favor of the slate of director nominees recommended by the Board of Directors, and (ii) vote (and endeavor to cause any of its affiliates that own shares of our common stock to vote) a number of shares equal to at least that percentage of shares voted by all other stockholders for or against any specified matter, as recommended by the Board of Directors. The specified matters are the election of accountants, the approval of company option plans, and any proposal by any of our stockholders (unless the proposal could be prejudicial to Enel or the required voting would interfere with Enel’s fiduciary duties to its own shareholders). As a result, our directors and executive officers, together with certain entities affiliated with them, may be able to control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all directors and approval of certain other corporate matters. Potential conflicts of interest could limit our ability to act on opportunities that are adverse to a significant stockholder or its affiliates. From time to time, we may enter into a material contract with a person or company that owns a significant amount of our company’s stock. As circumstances change, we may develop conflicting priorities or other conflicts of interest with the significant stockholder with regard to the contract, or the significant stockholder may exert or attempt to exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs. The significant stockholder might exert or attempt to exert this influence in its capacity as a significant stockholder or, if the significant stockholder has a representative on our Board of Directors, through that Board member. For example, we entered into the Contatore Elettronico project with an affiliate of Enel. Enel currently owns 3.0 million shares of our common stock, representing approximately 7.5% of our outstanding common stock. Enel also has the right to nominate a member of our Board of Directors as long as Enel owns at least 2.0 million shares of our common stock. As a consequence of the expiration of his mandate as Enel’s Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Francesco Tatò resigned his board membership in all of Enel’s subsidiaries and affiliates, including Echelon. Mr. Tatò served on our Board of Directors as a representative of Enel from September 2000 until September 2002. Enel has reserved its right to nominate a new member of our Board of Directors, who must be approved by us, to fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Enel’s former board representative to our Board of Directors. During the term of service of Enel’s former board representative from September 2000 to September 2002, Enel’s representative on our Board abstained from resolutions on any matter relating to Enel. A member of our Board of Directors who is also an officer of or is otherwise affiliated with Enel may decline to take action in a manner that might be favorable to us but adverse to Enel. Conflicts that could arise might concern the Contatore Elettronico project with Enel and other matters where Enel’s interest may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. Any of those conflicts could lead to litigation and could otherwise significantly and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Natural disasters or power outages could disrupt our business. We must protect our business and our network infrastructure against damage from earthquake, flood, hurricane and similar events, as well as from power outages. Many of our operations are subject to these risks, particularly our operations located in California. In past years, we experienced temporary power losses in our California facilities due to power shortages that have disrupted our operations, and we may in the future experience additional power losses that could disrupt our operations. While the impact to our business and operating results has not been material, it is possible that power losses will adversely affect our business in the future, or that the cost of acquiring sufficient power to run our business will increase significantly. Similarly, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problem could also adversely affect our business by, among other things, harming our primary data center or other internal operations, limiting our ability to communicate with our customers, and limiting our ability to sell our products. We do not insure against several natural disasters, including earthquakes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 