ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the SEC, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by our representatives. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We do not assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements. 10 Risks associated with our crude oil and natural gas operations: Oil and gas price fluctuations in the market may adversely affect the results of our operations. Our profitability, cash flows and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties are highly dependent upon the market prices of oil and natural gas. Substantially all of our sales of oil and natural gas are made in the spot market, or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices, and not pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. Accordingly, the prices received for our oil and natural gas production are dependent upon numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer product demand, governmental regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas and the overall economic environment. Historically, the oil and natural gas markets have proven cyclical and volatile as a result of factors that are beyond our control. Any additional declines in oil and natural gas prices or any other unfavorable market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and on the carrying value of our proved reserves. During 2009, commodity pricing for both crude oil and natural gas has continued to average below pricing from the respective prior year period. During 2009, based on NYMEX pricing, the price for a barrel (bbl) of oil ranged from a high of $81.37 to a low of $33.98 and the price for a Mmbtu of gas ranged from a high of $6.10 to a low of $1.92. Our future success depends on our ability to find, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. As is generally the case, our producing properties in the Gulf of Mexico and the onshore Gulf Coast often have high initial production rates which are followed by steep declines. To maintain production levels, we must locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those depleted by production. Without successful exploration or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline rapidly. We may be unable to find, develop or produce additional reserves at an acceptable cost. In addition, substantial capital is required to replace and grow reserves. If lower oil and gas prices or operating constraints or production difficulties result in our cash flow from operations being less than expected, we may be unable to expend the capital necessary to locate and develop or acquire new oil and gas reserves. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves and future cash flows from those reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Estimating accumulations of oil and gas is complex. The process relies on interpretations of available geological, geophysical, engineering and production data. The extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires certain economic assumptions, some of which are mandated by the SEC, such as oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: • the quality and quantity of available data; • the interpretation of that data; • the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and • the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. The proved reserve information set forth in this report is based on estimates we prepared in accordance with the definition of proved reserves prepared in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification 932, Extractive Activities- Oil and Gas (“ASC 932”), which was adopted for the disclosures for the year December 31, 2009. Estimates prepared by others might differ materially from our estimates. Actual quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves, future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development and prevailing oil and gas prices. Our reserves also may be susceptible to drainage by operators on adjacent properties. 11 You should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows is the current market value of our estimated proved oil and gas reserves. In accordance with new reserve disclosure requirements, we calculate the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves using twelve (12) month average prices and costs. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs we used. Our operations require significant expenditures of capital that may not be recovered. We require significant expenditures of capital in order to locate and develop producing properties and to drill exploratory and exploitation wells. In conducting exploration, exploitation and development activities from a particular well, the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our exploration, exploitation, development and production activities to be unsuccessful, potentially resulting in abandonment of the well. This could result in a total loss of our investment. In addition, the cost and timing of drilling, completing and operating wells is difficult to predict. We are dependent on other operators who influence our productivity. We have limited influence over the nature and timing of exploration and development on oil and natural gas properties we do not operate, including limited control over the maintenance of both safety and environmental standards. In 2009, approximately 46% of our production and 37% of our reserves were from our non-operated properties. The operators of those properties may: · refuse to initiate exploration or development projects, · initiate exploration or development projects on a slower schedule than we prefer; or · drill more wells or build more facilities on a project than we can adequately fund, which may limit our participation in those projects or limit our percentage of the revenues from those projects. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our anticipated exploration and development activities. Our working interest owners may face cash flow and liquidity concerns. If oil and natural gas prices decline, many of our working interest owners could experience liquidity and cash flow problems. These problems may lead to their attempting to delay the pace of drilling or project development in order to conserve cash. Any such delay could be detrimental to our projects. Some working interest owners may be unwilling or unable to pay their share of the project costs as they become due. A working interest owner may declare bankruptcy and refuse or be unable to pay its share of the project costs, and we would be obligated to pay that working interest owner’s share of the project costs. 12 The oil and gas we produce may not be readily marketable at the time of production. Crude oil, natural gas, condensate and other oil and gas products are generally sold to other oil and gas companies, government agencies and other industries. The availability of ready markets for oil and gas that we might discover and the prices obtained for such oil and gas depend on many factors beyond our control, including: · the extent of local production and imports of oil and gas, · the proximity and capacity of pipelines and other transportation facilities, · fluctuating demand for oil and gas, · the marketing of competitive fuels, and · the effects of governmental regulation of oil and gas production and sales. Natural gas associated with oil production is often not marketable due to demand or transportation limitations and is often flared at the producing well site. Pipeline facilities do not exist in certain areas of exploration and, therefore, any actual sales of discovered oil and gas might be delayed for extended periods until such facilities are constructed. We may encounter operating hazards that may result in substantial losses. We are subject to operating hazards normally associated with the exploration and production of oil and gas, including hurricanes, blowouts, explosions, oil spills, cratering, pollution, earthquakes, labor disruptions and fires. The occurrence of any such operating hazards could result in substantial losses to us due to injury or loss of life and damage to or destruction of oil and gas wells, formations, production facilities or other properties. We maintain insurance coverage limiting financial loss resulting from certain of these operating hazards. We do not maintain full insurance coverage for all matters that may adversely affect our operations, including war, terrorism, nuclear reactions, government fines, treatment of waste, blowout expenses, wind damage and business interruptions. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or underinsured events could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. There can be no assurance that any insurance will be adequate to cover losses or liabilities associated with operational hazards. We cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or its availability at premium levels that justify its purchase. Oil and gas wells particularly in certain regions of the United States could be hindered by hurricanes, earthquakes and other weather-related operating risks. Our operations in the Texas and Louisiana Gulf Coast area are subject to risks from hurricanes and other natural disasters. Damage caused by wind, hurricanes, earthquakes or other operating hazards could result in substantial losses to us. In the past, our oil and gas operations have been affected by tropical storms and hurricanes on occasion resulting in additional costs and reduced oil and gas volumes during those periods. We face strong competition from larger oil and gas companies, which could result in adverse effects on our business. The exploration and production business is highly competitive. Many of our competitors have substantially larger financial resources, staffs and facilities. Our competitors in the United States include numerous major oil and gas exploration and production companies. Our investments in Spitfire and Global may be affected as a result of the competition faced in Canada, Colombia, Peru and Panama. 13 Our operations are subject to various litigation that could have an adverse effect on our business. From time to time we are a defendant in various litigation matters. The nature of our operations expose us to further possible litigation claims in the future. There is risk that any matter in litigation could be adversely decided against us regardless of our belief, opinion and position, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation is highly costly and the costs associated with defending litigation could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Compliance with, or breach of, environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to numerous and frequently changing laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. We own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, properties that have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas and these properties and the wastes disposed on these properties may be subject to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove or remediate previously released wastes or property contamination. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have generally become more stringent and may, in some cases, impose “strict liability” for environmental damage. Strict liability means that we may be held liable for damage without regard to whether we were negligent or otherwise at fault. Environmental laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with existing requirements of governmental bodies, our ability to conduct continued operations is subject to satisfying applicable regulatory and permitting controls. Our current permits and authorizations and ability to get future permits and authorizations may be susceptible on a going forward basis, to increased scrutiny, greater complexity resulting in increased costs, or delays in receiving appropriate authorizations. We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change. The growing political and scientific sentiment is that increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are influencing global weather patterns. Changing weather patterns, along with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions, could impact the availability or increase the cost to produce our products. Additionally, the sale of our products can be impacted by weather conditions. Concern over climate change, including global warming, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting the greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. For example, proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on GHG emissions continue to be considered by policy makers in the territories we operate. Laws enacted that directly or indirectly affect our oil and gas production could impact our business and financial results. Risk factors associated with our financial condition: We have a history of losses and may suffer losses in the future. We reported a net loss of approximately $3.3 million and $27 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We have reported net losses in three of the last five fiscal years. Our ability to generate net income is strongly affected by, among other factors, the market price of crude oil and natural gas. During 2008, we recorded a write-down of the carrying value of our oil and gas properties of approximately $19.9 million which was primarily due to the significant decline in the market price of crude oil and natural gas at December 31, 2008. We had no such write-down in 2009; however, we may report losses in the future. Consequently, future losses may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 If estimated discounted future net cash flows continue to decrease, we may be required to take additional write-downs. We periodically review the carrying value of our oil and gas properties under applicable full-cost accounting rules. These rules require a write-down of the carrying value of oil and gas properties if the carrying value exceeds the applicable estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves. Given the volatility of oil and gas prices, it is reasonably possible that the estimated discounted future net cash flows could change in the near term. If oil and gas prices decline in the future, even if only for a short period of time, it is possible that write-downs of oil and gas properties could occur. Whether we will be required to take such a charge will depend on the average prices for oil and gas during the period and the effect of reserve additions or revisions, property sales and capital expenditures during such quarter. Our financial condition may suffer if estimates of our oil and gas reserve information are adjusted, and fluctuations in oil and gas prices and other factors affect our oil and gas reserves. Our oil and gas reserve information is based upon criteria prepared in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification 932, Extractive Activities- Oil and Gas (“ASC 932”) and the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Final Rule, Modernization of the Oil and Gas Reporting Requirements, and reflects only estimates of the accumulation of oil and gas and the economic recoverability of those volumes. Our future production, revenues and expenditures with respect to such oil and gas reserves could be different from estimates, and any material differences may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may prove to differ materially from that assumed in estimating reserves: · the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, · the production and operating costs incurred, · the amount and timing of future development expenditures, and · future oil and gas sales prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flow based on the same available data. The estimated discounted future net cash flows described in this Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 2009 should not be considered as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to our properties from proved reserves. Such estimates are prepared in compliance with the ASC 932, Oil and Gas Reserve Estimation and Disclosures and the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Final Rule, Modernization of the Oil and Gas Reporting Requirements, and, as such, are based on average prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, while future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. The Standard requires that we report our oil and natural gas reserves using a 12-month average price, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Using lower values in forecasting reserves will result in a shorter life being given to producing oil and natural gas properties because such properties, as their production levels are estimated to decline, will reach an uneconomic limit, with lower prices, at an earlier date. There can be no assurance that a decrease in oil and gas prices or other differences in our estimates of its reserve will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 If the market value of our investments in Global and Spitfire continue to decrease, the value of our common stock could be negatively impacted. At December 31, 2009, we held investments in both Global and Spitfire through our ownership of approximately 34% and 25%, respectively, of their outstanding ordinary shares. Both investments represent a substantial part of our balance sheet at December 31, 2009. The market value of Global’s common shares increased while the value of Spitfire’s common shares decreased slightly during 2009, as compared to the prior year period, but there can be no assurance that their common stock will continue to improve in the future. A potential decrease in the value of their common stock could adversely affect our financial statements and the value of our common stock. We may suffer losses on our investments from exchange rate fluctuations. We account for our investments in Global and Spitfire using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency. The shares of common stock associated with our investments in Global and Spitfire are denominated in British sterling pounds and Canadian dollars, respectively. We could suffer losses in our investments if the value of the British sterling pound and the Canadian dollar were to drop relative to the value of the U.S. dollar. Any substantial currency fluctuations could create a material adverse effect on the value of our investments. One of our shareholders owns a significant amount of our common stock and exercises significant control over us. As of December 31, 2009, Lyford Investments Enterprises Ltd. (“Lyford”) beneficially owned approximately 33% of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock. Lyford is in a position to significantly influence decisions with respect to: · our direction and policies, including the election and removal of directors, · mergers or other business combinations, · the acquisition or disposition of our assets, · future issuances of our common stock or other securities, · our incurrence of debt, and · the payment of dividends, if any, on our common stock, and amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Lyford’s concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a future change of control. 16 Risks associated with market conditions: Our stock price is volatile and the value of any investment in our common stock may fluctuate. Our stock price has been and is highly volatile, and we believe this volatility is due to, among other things: · commodity prices of oil and natural gas, · the volatility of the market in general, · the results of our drilling, · current expectations of our future financial performance. For example, our common stock price has fluctuated from a high of $13.10 per share to a low of $1.40 per share over the three years ended December 31, 2009. This volatility may affect the market value of our common stock in the future. See Part II, Item 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Future sales of our common stock may affect the market price of our common stock. There are currently several registration statements with respect to our common stock that are effective, pursuant to which certain of our stockholders may sell shares of common stock. Any such sale of stock may also decrease the market price of our common stock. Any conversions of our Series G1 Preferred or Series G2 Preferred Stock involving a large issuance of shares of our common stock could result in a dilution of stockholders’ ownership percentage of our common stock and may result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. In addition, we may elect to issue a significant number of additional shares of common stock for financing or other purposes, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We have issued shares of preferred stock with greater rights than our common stock and may issue additional shares of preferred stock in the future. We are permitted under our charter to issue up to 1.0 million shares of preferred stock. We can issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series and can set the terms of the preferred stock without seeking any further approval from our common stockholders. Any preferred stock that we issue may rank ahead of our common stock in terms of dividend priority or liquidation premiums and may have greater voting rights than our common stock. At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding 1,000 shares of Series G1 Preferred and 1,000 shares of Series G2 Preferred. These shares of preferred stock have rights senior to our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation. We may issue additional shares of common stock which may dilute the value of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Pursuant to the terms of our investment in BWI and the related Agreement, HKN and the other BWI unitholders granted to one another put and call options with respect to 3,050 units of BWI in exchange for issuance of 725 thousand restricted shares of our common stock. These options are exercisable only if certain conditions are satisfied prior to June 2012. 17 A large issuance of shares of common stock could decrease the ownership percentage of current outstanding stockholders and could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. In addition, we may elect to issue additional shares of common stock for financing or other purposes, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 