ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Interested persons should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. Our NES revenues may not be predictable. We and our partners sell our NES system to utilities. For several reasons sales cycles with utility companies are generally extended and unpredictable. Utilities generally have complex budgeting, purchasing, and regulatory processes that govern their capital spending. In addition, in many instances, a utility may require one or more field trials of our NES system before moving to a volume deployment. There is also generally an extended development and integration effort required in order to incorporate a new technology into a utility's existing infrastructure. A number of other factors may also need to be addressed before the utility decides to engage in a full-scale deployment of our NES system, including: · the time it takes for utilities to evaluate multiple competing bids, negotiate terms, and award contracts for large scale metering system deployments; · the deployment schedule for projects undertaken by our utility or systems integrator customers; and · delays in installing, operating, and evaluating the results of NES system field trials. 10 Once a utility decides to move forward with a large-scale deployment of our NES system, the timing of and our ability to recognize revenue on our NES system product shipments will depend on several factors. These factors, which may not be under our control, include shipment schedules that may be subject to modification, and other contractual provisions, such as customer acceptance of all or any part of the system. In addition, the complex revenue recognition rules relating to products such as our NES system may also require us to defer some or all of the revenue associated with NES product shipments until certain conditions are met in a future period. As a result, the actual timing of revenue may vary widely. Sales of our NES system may fail to meet our financial targets. We have invested and intend to continue to invest significant resources in the development and sales of our NES system. Our long-term financial goals include expectations for a reasonable return on these investments. However, to date the revenues generated from sales of our NES system products have yielded very little gross profit, while our NES related operating expenses have increased significantly. In order to achieve our financial targets, we must meet the following objectives: · Increase market acceptance of our NES system products in order to increase revenues; · Increase gross margin from our NES revenues by reducing the cost of manufacturing our NES system products; and · Manage our operating expenses to a reasonable percentage of revenues. We cannot assure you that we will meet any or all of these objectives to the extent necessary to achieve our financial goals. We depend on a limited number of key suppliers. Our future success will depend significantly on our ability to timely manufacture our products cost-effectively, in sufficient volumes, and in accordance with quality standards. For most of our products requiring assembly, we rely on a limited number of contract electronic manufacturers (CEMs), principally WKK Technology, TYCO TEPC/Transpower, and Flextronics. These CEMs procure material and assemble, test, and inspect the final products to our specifications. This strategy involves certain risks, including reduced control over quality, costs, delivery schedules, product availability, and manufacturing yields. In addition, CEMs can experience turnover and instability, exposing us to additional risks as well as missed commitments to our customers. We also maintain manufacturing agreements with a limited number of semiconductor manufacturers for the production of key products, including those used in our NES system. The Neuron Chip, which is an important component that we and our customers use in control network devices, is currently manufactured and distributed by two providers, Toshiba and Cypress Semiconductor. Another semiconductor supplier, STMicroelectronics, manufactures our power line smart transceiver products, for which we have no alternative source. In addition, we currently purchase several key products and components from sole or limited source suppliers with which we do not maintain signed agreements that would obligate them to supply to us on negotiated terms. We cannot be certain that these and other key suppliers will continue to supply us with critical products or components. If any of our key suppliers were to stop manufacturing our products or supplying us with our key components, it could be expensive and time-consuming to find a replacement. There is no guarantee that we would be able to find an acceptable alternative source. Additional risks that we face if we must transition between CEMs include: · moving raw material and in-process inventory between locations in different parts of the world; · reestablishing acceptable manufacturing processes with a new work force; and · exposure to excess or obsolete inventory held by contract manufacturers for use in our products. The failure of any key manufacturer to produce products on time, at agreed quality levels, and fully compliant with our product, assembly and test specifications could adversely affect our revenues and gross profit, and could result in claims against us by our customers, which could harm our results of operations and financial position. 11 Our products use components or materials that may be subject to price fluctuations, shortages, or interruptions of supply. We may be vulnerable to price increases for products, components, or materials, such as copper and cobalt. In addition, in the past we have occasionally experienced shortages or interruptions in supply for certain of these items, which caused us to delay shipments beyond targeted or announced dates. To help address these issues, we may decide to purchase quantities of these items that are in excess of our estimated requirements. As a result, we could be forced to increase our excess and obsolete inventory reserves to provide for these excess quantities, which could harm our operating results. If we experience any shortage of products or components of acceptable quality, or any interruption in the supply of these products or components, or if we are not able to procure them from alternate sources at acceptable prices and within a reasonable period of time, our revenues, gross profits or both could decrease. In addition, under the terms of some of our contracts with our customers, we may also be subject to penalties if we fail to deliver our products on time. The markets for our products are highly competitive. Competition in our markets is intense and involves rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, and rapid changes in customer requirements. In each of our markets, we compete with a wide array of manufacturers, vendors, strategic alliances, systems developers and other businesses. The principal competitive factors that affect the markets for our products include the following: · our ability to anticipate changes in customer requirements and to develop new or improved products that meet these requirements in a timely manner; · the price and features of our products such as adaptability, scalability, functionality, ease of use, and the ability to integrate with other products; · our product reputation, quality, performance, and conformance with established industry standards; · our customer service and support; · warranties, indemnities, and other contractual terms; and · customer relationships and market awareness. Competitors for our NES system products include Actaris, DCSI, Elster, Hunt Technologies, Itron, Iskraemeco, and Landis and Gyr; as well as our own customers such as Enermet, IBM, Kamstrup, and Metrima, each of which has developed or is marketing a multi-service metering system that competes with our NES system offering. For our LWI products, our competitors include some of the largest companies in the electronics industry, operating either alone or together with trade associations and partners. Key company competitors include companies such as Siemens in the building industry; Allen-Bradley (a subsidiary of Rockwell Automation), Groupe Schneider and Siemens in the industrial automation industry; Siemens in the transportation industry; and Zensys in the home control market. Key industry standard and trade group competitors include BACnet, Konnex, and DALI in the buildings industry; Profibus, HART, and DeviceNet in the industrial control market; DLMS in the utility industry; Zigbee and the ZWave alliance in the home control market; and the Train Control Network (TCN) in the rail transportation market. Each of these standards and/or alliances is backed by one or more competitors. For example, the Zigbee alliance includes over 150 member companies with promoter members such as Eaton, Freescale, Motorola, Texas Instruments, ST Microelectronics, Ember, Siemens, Honeywell, Mitsubishi Electric, Samsung, Schneider Electric, Tendril, Huawei Technologies, and Philips. 12 Many of our competitors, alone or together with their trade associations and partners, have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, service and other resources, significantly greater name recognition, and broader product offerings. In addition, the utility metering market is experiencing a trend towards consolidation. As a result, these competitors may be able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, and sale of their products, and may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements or product technology. If we are unable to compete effectively in any of the markets we serve, our revenues, results of operations, and financial position would be harmed. We may incur penalties and/or damages with respect to sales of our NES system products. Sales of the NES system will expose us to penalties, damages and other liabilities relating to late deliveries, late or improper installations or operations, failure to meet product specifications, failure to achieve performance specifications, indemnities or otherwise. Any such liabilities would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. If we do not maintain adequate distribution channels, our revenues will be harmed. We market our NES system products directly, as well as through selected VARs and integration partners. We believe that a significant portion of our NES system sales will be made through our VARs and integration partners, rather than directly by our company. To date, our VARs and integration partners have greater experience in overseeing projects for utilities. As a result, if our relationships with our VARs and integration partners are not successful, or if we are not able to create similar distribution channels for our NES system products with other companies in various geographic areas, revenues from sales of our NES system products may not meet our financial targets, which will harm our operating results and financial condition. Currently, significant portions of our LWI revenues are derived from sales to distributors, including EBV, the primary independent distributor of our products to OEMs in Europe. Historically, sales to EBV, as well as sales to our other distributor partners, have accounted for a substantial portion of our total LWI revenues. Agreements with our distributor partners are generally renewed on an annual basis. If any of these agreements is not renewed, we would be required to locate another distributor or add our own distribution capability to meet the needs of our end-use customers. Any replacement distribution channel could prove less effective than our current arrangements. In addition, if any of our distributor partners fail to dedicate sufficient resources to market and sell our products, our revenues would suffer. Furthermore, if they significantly reduce their inventory levels for our products, service levels to our end-use customers could decrease. We face financial and operational risks associated with international operations. We have operations located in nine countries around the world. Revenues from international sales, which include both export sales and sales by international subsidiaries, accounted for about 65.5% of our total net revenues in 2006, 77.1% of our total net revenues in 2005, and 85.2% of our total net revenues in 2004. We expect that international sales will constitute an even more significant portion of our total net revenues as we have projected that our NES revenues, which currently result predominantly from international sales, will increase significantly in 2007. Changes in the value of currencies in which we conduct our business relative to the U.S. dollar could cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. The three primary areas where we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations are revenues, cost of goods sold, and operating expenses. With respect to revenues generated in foreign currencies, our historical foreign currency exposure has been related primarily to the Japanese Yen and has not been material to our consolidated results of operations. However, in the future, we expect that some foreign utilities may require us to price our NES system in the utility's local currency, which will increase our exposure to foreign currency risk. In addition, we have agreed with EBV, our European distributor, that upon notice from EBV, we will sell our products to EBV in European Euros rather than U.S. dollars. If EBV were to exercise this right, our revenue exposure to foreign currency fluctuations would increase. For our cost of goods sold, the majority of our products are assembled by CEMs in China, and to a lesser extent, in the European Union, although our transactions with these vendors have historically been denominated in U.S. dollars. If these vendors were to require us to pay in their local currency, or demand a U.S. dollar price adjustment to address a change in exchange rates, our cost to procure our products would likely increase. This is particularly a risk in China, where any future revaluations of the Chinese currency against the U.S. dollar could result in significant cost increases. 13 We use the local currency to pay for our operating expenses in the various countries where we have operations. If the value of the U.S. dollar declines as compared to the local currency where the expenses are incurred, our expenses, when translated back into U.S. dollars, will increase. To date, we have not hedged any of our foreign currency exposures and currently do not maintain any hedges to mitigate our foreign currency risks. Consequently, any resulting adverse foreign currency fluctuations could significantly harm our revenues, cost of goods sold, or operating expenses. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities include the following: · costs of localizing products for foreign countries and lack of acceptance of non-local products in foreign countries; · inherent challenges in managing international operations; · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other trade barriers; · economic and political conditions in the countries where we do business; · differing vacation and holiday patterns in other countries, particularly in Europe; · labor actions generally affecting individual countries, regions, or any of our customers, which could result in reduced demand for our products; · international terrorism and anti-American sentiment; and · potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, and our financial condition. The sales cycle for our LWI products is lengthy and unpredictable. The sales cycle between initial LWI customer contact and execution of a contract or license agreement with a customer, or purchase of our products, can vary widely. Initially, we must educate our customers about the potential applications of and cost savings associated with our products. If we are successful in this effort, OEMs typically conduct extensive and lengthy product evaluations before making a decision to design our products into their offerings. Once the OEM decides to incorporate our products, volume purchases of our products are generally delayed until the OEM’s product development, system integration, and product introduction periods have been completed. In addition, changes in our customer’s budgets, or the priority they assign to control network development, could also affect the sales cycle. We generally have little or no control over these factors, any of which could prevent or substantially delay our ability to complete a transaction and could adversely affect the timing of our revenues and results of operations. If we sell our NES system products directly to a utility, we will face additional risks. If we sell our NES system products to a utility directly, we may be required to assume responsibility for installing the NES system in the utility's territory, integrating the NES system into the utility's operating and billing system, overseeing management of the combined system, and undertaking other activities. To date, we do not have any significant experience with providing these types of services. As a result, if we sold directly to a utility, it may be necessary for us to contract with third parties to satisfy these obligations. We cannot assure you that we would find appropriate third parties to provide these services on reasonable terms, or at all. Assuming responsibility for these or other services would add to the costs and risks associated with NES system installations, and could also negatively affect the timing of our revenues and cash flows related to these transactions. 14 Fluctuations in our operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual results have varied significantly from period to period, and we have sometimes failed to meet securities analysts' expectations. Moreover, we have a history of losses and although we achieved profitability in prior years, we expect to incur substantial losses again in 2007. Our future operating results will depend on many factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: · the complex revenue recognition rules relating to products such our NES system could require us to defer some or all of the revenue associated with NES product shipments until certain conditions, such as acceptance criteria, are met in a future period; · our contract electronic manufacturers may not be able to provide quality products on a timely basis, especially during periods where capacity in the CEM market is limited; · shipment and payment schedules may be delayed; · our products may not be manufactured in accordance with specifications or our established quality standards, or may not perform as designed; · our products may not be accepted by utilities, OEMs, systems integrators, service providers and end-users at the levels we project; · downturns in any customer's or potential customer's business, or declines in general economic conditions, could cause significant reductions in capital spending, thereby reducing the levels of orders from our customers; · recording of expense relating to equity compensation as required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) 123R, Share-Based Payment, will decrease our earnings; · we may incur costs associated with any future business acquisitions; · results of impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, with respect to goodwill and other identified intangible assets that we acquired in the past or that we may acquire in the future may negatively affect our earnings and financial condition; and · the mix of products and services that we sell may change to a less profitable mix. Any of the above factors could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition, which could cause our stock price to decline. We may be unable to promote and expand acceptance of our open, interoperable control systems over competing protocols, standards, or technologies. LONWORKS technology is open, meaning that many of our technology patents are broadly licensed without royalties or license fees. As a result, our customers are able to develop hardware and software solutions that compete with some of our products. Because some of our customers are OEMs that develop and market their own control systems, these customers in particular could develop competing products based on our open technology. For instance, we have published all of the network management commands required to develop software that competes with our LNS software. In addition, many of our competitors are dedicated to promoting closed or proprietary systems, technologies, software and network protocols or product standards that differ from or are incompatible with ours. We also face strong competition from large trade associations that promote alternative technologies and standards in their native countries, such as the Konnex Association in Belgium, and the European Installation Bus Association in Germany. Other examples include various industry groups who promote alternative open standards such as BACnet in the building market, DALI in the lighting controls market, Echonet in the home control market, and a group comprised of ABB, Adtranz/Bombardier, Siemens, GEC Alstrom and other manufacturers that support an alternative rail transportation protocol to our LONWORKS protocol. 15 Our technologies, protocols, or standards may not be successful or we may not be able to compete with new or enhanced products or standards introduced by our competitors, which would have a material adverse affect on our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Liabilities resulting from defects in or misuse of our products, whether or not covered by insurance, may delay our revenues and increase our liabilities and expenses. Our products may contain undetected errors or failures when first introduced, as new versions are released, or as a result of the manufacturing process. In addition, our customers or their installation partners may improperly install or implement our products, which could delay completion of a deployment or hinder our ability to win a subsequent award. Furthermore, because of the low cost and interoperable nature of our products, LONWORKS technology could be used in a manner for which it was not intended. If errors or failures are found in our products, we may not be able to successfully correct them in a timely manner, or at all. Such errors or failures could delay our product shipments and divert our engineering resources while we attempt to correct them. In addition, we could decide to extend the warranty period, or incur other costs outside of our normal warranty coverage, to help address any known errors or failures in our products and mitigate the impact on our customers. To address these issues, the agreements we maintain with our customers may contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to potential errors and omissions claims as well as any liabilities arising from them. In certain very limited instances, these agreements require that we be named as an additional insured on our customers' insurance policies. However, our customer contracts and additional insured coverage may not effectively protect us against the liabilities and expenses associated with errors or failures attributable to our products. Defects in our products may also cause us to be liable for losses in the event of property damage, harm or death to persons, claims against our directors or officers, and the like. Such liabilities could harm our reputation, expose our company to liability, and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. To help reduce our exposure to these types of liabilities, we currently maintain property, general commercial liability, errors and omissions, directors and officers, and other lines of insurance. However, it is possible that such insurance may not be available in the future or, if available, may be insufficient in amount to cover any particular claim, or we might not carry insurance that covers a specific claim. In addition, we believe that the premiums for the types of insurance we carry will continue to fluctuate from period to period. Significant cost increases could also result in increased premiums or reduced coverage limits. Consequently, if we elect to reduce our coverage, or if we do not carry insurance for a particular type of claim, we will face increased exposure to these types of claims. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or found that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. We may be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers or other third parties that use our products in the event our products are alleged to infringe a third party's intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may also receive notice that a third party believes that our products may be infringing patents or other intellectual property rights of that third party. Responding to those claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and resources, and cause us to incur significant expenses. As the result of such a claim, we may elect or be required to redesign our products, some of our product offerings could be delayed, or we could be required to cease distributing some of our products. In the alternative, we could seek a license to the third party's intellectual property. Even if our products do not infringe, we may elect to take a license or settle to avoid incurring litigation costs. However, it is possible that we would not be able to obtain such a license or settle on reasonable terms, or at all. Lastly, our customers may not purchase our products if they are concerned our products may infringe third party intellectual property rights. This could reduce the market opportunity for the sale of our products and services. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse affect on our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. 16 We have limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our success depends significantly upon our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect these intellectual property rights, all of which afford only limited protection. If any of our patents fail to protect our technology, or if we do not obtain patents in certain countries, our competitors may find it easier to offer equivalent or superior technology. We have also registered or applied for registration for certain trademarks, and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. If we fail to properly register or maintain our trademarks or to otherwise take all necessary steps to protect our trademarks, the value associated with the trademarks may diminish. In addition, if we fail to protect our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, we may not be able to compete as effectively in our markets. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or services or use information that we regard as proprietary. Any of our patents, trademarks, copyrights or intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, we cannot assure you that we have taken or will take all necessary steps to protect our intellectual property rights. Third parties may also independently develop similar technology without breach of our trade secrets or other proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries, including several in which we operate or sell our products, do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and it may take longer to receive a remedy from a court outside of the United States. Also, some of our products are licensed under shrink-wrap license agreements that are not signed by licensees and therefore may not be binding under the laws of certain jurisdictions. From time to time, litigation may be necessary to defend and enforce our proprietary rights. As a result, we could incur substantial costs and divert management resources, which could harm our business, regardless of the final outcome. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights both in the United States and abroad, we may be unsuccessful in doing so. Also, the steps that we take to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights may be inadequate to deter third parties from infringing, misusing, misappropriating, or independently developing our technology or intellectual property rights, or to prevent an unauthorized third party from misappropriating our products or technology. Our executive officers and technical personnel are critical to our business. Our company’s success depends substantially on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Due to the specialized technical nature of our business, we are particularly dependent on our Chief Executive Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, and our technical personnel. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, integrate, motivate and retain qualified technical, sales, operations, and managerial personnel, as well as our ability to successfully implement a plan for management succession. Competition for qualified personnel in our business areas is intense, and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain qualified executive officers and key personnel. Our product development and marketing functions are largely based in Silicon Valley, which is a highly competitive marketplace. It may be particularly difficult to recruit, relocate and retain qualified personnel in this geographic area. Moreover, the cost of living, including the cost of housing, in Silicon Valley is known to be high. Because we are legally prohibited from making loans to executive officers, we will not be able to assist potential key personnel as they acquire housing or incur other costs that might be associated with joining our company. In addition, if we lose the services of any of our key personnel and are not able to find suitable replacements in a timely manner, our business could be disrupted, other key personnel may decide to leave, and we may incur increased operating expenses in finding and compensating their replacements. The trading price of our stock has been volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including the following: · significant stockholders may sell some or all of their holdings of our stock; · investors may be concerned about our ability to develop additional customers for our products and services; · volatility in our stock price may be unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance; and 17 · our stock has very limited analyst coverage. Any of these factors could have a negative impact on the market price of our stock. Voluntary standards and governmental regulatory actions in our markets could limit our ability to sell our products. Standards bodies, which are formal and informal associations that attempt to set voluntary, non-governmental product standards, are influential in many of our target markets. We participate in many voluntary standards organizations around the world in order to both help prevent the adoption of exclusionary standards and to promote voluntary standards for our products. However, we do not have the resources to participate in all voluntary standards processes that may affect our markets. In addition, many of our products and the industries in which they are used are subject to U.S. and foreign regulation. For example, the power line medium, which is the communications medium used by some of our products, is subject to special regulations in North America, Europe and Japan. In general, these regulations limit the ability of companies to use power lines as a communication medium. In addition, some of our competitors have attempted to use regulatory actions to reduce the market opportunity for our products or to increase the market opportunity for their own products. The adoption of voluntary standards or the passage of governmental regulations that are incompatible with our products or technology could limit the market opportunity for our products, which could harm our revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Our existing stockholders control a significant percentage of our stock, which will limit other stockholders' ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 28, 2007, our directors and executive officers, together with certain entities affiliated with them (including, for this purpose, Enel, which has the right to nominate a director to our board of directors), beneficially owned 35.8% of our outstanding stock. When we sold 3.0 million newly issued shares of our common stock to Enel on September 11, 2000, we granted Enel the right to nominate a director to our board of directors, although a representative of Enel does not currently sit on our board. In connection with the stock sale, our directors and our Chief Financial Officer agreed to enter into a voting agreement with Enel in which each of them agreed to vote in favor of Enel's nominee to our board of directors. In addition, Enel agreed to vote for our board’s recommendations for the election of directors, approval of accountants, approval of Echelon’s equity compensation plans, and certain other matters. As a result, our directors and executive officers, together with certain entities affiliated with them, may be able to control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of all directors and approval of certain other corporate matters. Natural disasters, power outages, and other factors outside of our control such as widespread pandemics could disrupt our business. We must protect our business and our network infrastructure against damage from earthquake, flood, hurricane and similar events, as well as from power outages. A natural disaster, power outage, or other unanticipated problem could also adversely affect our business by, among other things, harming our primary data center or other internal operations, limiting our ability to communicate with our customers, and limiting our ability to sell our products. We do not insure against several natural disasters, including earthquakes. Any outbreak of a widespread communicable disease pandemic could similarly impact our operations. Such impact could include, among other things, the inability for our sales and operations personnel located in affected regions to travel and conduct business freely, the impact any such disease may have on one or more of the distributors for our products in those regions, and increased supply chain costs. Additionally, any future health-related disruptions at our third-party contract manufacturers or other key suppliers could affect our ability to supply our customers with products in a timely manner, which would harm our results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 ITEM 