D. Risk Factors This section contains forward-looking statements that are subject to the Cautionary Statement appearing on page 2 of this annual report. Risks to Sony are also discussed elsewhere in this annual report, including, without limitation in the other sections of this annual report referred to in the Cautionary Statement. Sony must overcome increasingly intense competition, especially in its electronics businesses. Sony’s electronics businesses compete against competitors, including new entrants, on the basis of various factors including price and function. Even for those products where Sony has a strong competitive advantage, such as image sensors, it is possible that its competitors’ technological capabilities will catch up with Sony’s, and Sony will be unable to maintain its advantageous market position. In its consumer electronics businesses, in order to produce products that appeal to changing and increasingly diverse consumer preferences or to overcome the fact that a relatively high percentage of consumers already possess products similar to those that Sony offers, Sony must develop superior technology, anticipate consumer tastes and rapidly develop attractive and differentiated products with competitive selling prices and features. Sony faces increasingly intense pricing pressure from competitors, retailer consolidation, and shorter product cycles in a variety of consumer product categories. Sony’s operating results depend on Sony’s ability to continue to efficiently develop and offer products at competitive prices, through multiple sales channels, that meet changing and increasingly diverse consumer preferences. If Sony is unable to maintain its advantageous market position in the fields in which it has a technological or other competitive advantage, if Sony is unable to effectively anticipate and counter the ongoing price erosion that frequently affects its consumer products, if there is a change in existing business models or consumer preferences, or if the average selling prices of its consumer products decrease faster than Sony is able to reduce its manufacturing costs, Sony’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted. 7 Table of Contents To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, Sony must successfully manage frequent introductions and transitions of new products, semiconductors, components, and services. Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the consumer electronics, network services and mobile communication industries, Sony must continually introduce, enhance and stimulate customer demand for products, semiconductors (including image sensors), components, services and technologies in both mature and developing markets. The successful introductions and transitions of new products, semiconductors, components, and services depend on a number of factors, such as the timely and successful completion of development efforts, market acceptance, Sony’s ability to plan and execute an effective marketing strategy, Sony’s ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp-up issues, the availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products, semiconductors, components, and services may have quality or other issues in the early stages of introduction. To remain competitive, it is also important for Sony to respond to technological innovation and changing consumer demand for its products and services that integrate and enhance functions of existing products and services. Accordingly, if Sony cannot properly manage frequent introductions and transitions of new products, semiconductors, components and services, Sony’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Shifting consumer demand to new products and services may have an adverse impact on the sales of Sony’s existing products and services. Markets for products and services where Sony has a competitive strength might contract as a result of a shift in consumer demand toward technologically innovative products and services. For example, improvements in component technologies, such as image sensors, processors and memory, and mobile operating systems, the development and expansion of broadband communication infrastructure and network and cloud-based services, and the evolution of downloadable applications and social media have led to a shift in demand to smartphones from products that consumers had previously purchased separately, such as portable music players, home-use video cameras, compact digital cameras and portable game hardware, and to tablets from PCs and portable game hardware. As a result of this shift in demand, as well as other factors, Sony sold its PC business in July 2014. In the future, there is no assurance that current strong demand for products such as smartphones, and the image sensors within, will continue, as customer preferences may shift, or new, competing technologies may be introduced. Under these circumstances, Sony must respond to changing consumer demands with appealing new products and services as well as continue to improve the value of its existing products and services. If Sony is unable to offer such products and services, Sony’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Sony is subject to competition from firms that may be more specialized or have greater resources. Sony has several business segments in different industries with many product and service categories, which cause it to face a broad range of existing and new competitors ranging from large multinational companies to highly specialized entities that focus on only a few businesses. In addition, outsourced manufacturing services partners may enter and compete with Sony in markets in which they currently supply products to Sony. Furthermore, current and future competitors may have greater financial, technical, labor and marketing resources available to them than those available to the businesses of Sony, and Sony may not be able to fund or invest in certain areas of its businesses to the same degree as its competitors or match competitor pricing. In addition, the businesses within Sony’s Financial Services segment may not be able to compete effectively, especially against competitors with superior financial, marketing and other relevant resources. A failure to efficiently anticipate and respond to these established and new competitors may adversely impact Sony’s operating results. Sony’s investments in research and development may not yield the expected results. Sony’s businesses operate in intensely competitive markets characterized by changing consumer preferences and rapid technological innovation. Due to advanced technological innovation and the relative ease of technology 8 Table of Contents imitation, new products and services tend to become standardized more rapidly, leading to more intense competition and ongoing price erosion. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of its products in this environment, Sony continues to invest heavily in research and development (“R&D”), particularly in growth areas such as image sensors and the Game & Network Services (“G&NS”) segment, and intends to limit its expenses in markets it deems mature or with limited growth potential. However, Sony may not be successful in identifying growth potential and evaluating major market trends, its investments may not yield the innovation or the results expected quickly enough, or competitors may lead Sony in technological innovation. This may hinder Sony’s ability to commercialize, in a timely manner, new and competitive products and services that meet the needs of the market, which consequently may adversely impact Sony’s operating results as well as its reputation. Sony’s business restructuring and transformation efforts are costly and may not attain their objectives. Sony is implementing restructuring initiatives that focus on profitability, business autonomy, shareholder value and a clearly defined positioning of each business within the overall business portfolio. Restructuring charges in the amount of 77.5 billion yen, 80.6 billion yen and 98.0 billion yen were recorded in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. While Sony anticipates recording approximately 35 billion yen of restructuring charges in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, significant additional or future restructuring charges may be recorded due to reasons such as the impact of economic downturns or exiting from unprofitable businesses, including the potential sale of certain businesses. Restructuring charges are recorded primarily in cost of sales, selling, general and administrative (“SGA”) expenses and other operating (income) expense, net and thus adversely affect Sony’s operating income (loss) and net income (loss) attributable to Sony’s stockholders (Refer to Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements). Sony continues to rationalize its manufacturing operations, shift and consolidate manufacturing to lower-cost countries, and utilize outsourced manufacturing. In addition, Sony is focused on reducing SGA expenses across the group, including outsourcing its support functions and information processing operations to external partners and implementing business process optimization across functions including sales and marketing, manufacturing, logistics, procurement, quality and R&D. Due to internal or external factors, efficiencies and cost savings from the above-mentioned and other restructuring and transformation initiatives may not be realized as scheduled and, even if those benefits are realized, Sony may not be able to achieve the level of profitability expected due to market conditions worsening beyond expectations. Such possible internal factors may include, for example, changes in restructuring and transformation plans, an inability to implement the initiatives effectively with available resources, an inability to coordinate effectively across different business groups, delays in implementing the new business processes or strategies, or an inability to effectively manage and monitor the post-transformation performance of the operation. Possible external factors may include, for example, increased or unanticipated burdens from local legal or regulatory restrictions, including labor regulations and labor union agreements, or from customary Japanese labor practices, that may prevent Sony from executing its restructuring initiatives as planned. The inability to fully and successfully implement restructuring and transformation programs may adversely affect Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Additionally, operating cash flows may be reduced as a result of payments for restructuring charges. Sony’s acquisitions, joint ventures and investments may not be successful. Sony actively engages in acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investments in order to acquire new technologies, efficiently develop new businesses, and enhance its business competitiveness. Furthermore, Sony has previously engaged in joint ventures with third parties in order to reduce its capital investment, reduce operating costs and share risk with its joint venture partners, and may do so again in the future. Moreover, Sony may sell its equity interest in a joint venture or buy out the joint venture partner’s equity due to the achievement of its original objectives or other reasons. For example, in February 2012, Sony acquired Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson’s 50 percent equity interest in Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, a joint venture that manufactures and sells mobile handsets, and made the company a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sony. 9 Table of Contents Sony may incur significant expenses to acquire and integrate businesses. Additionally, Sony may not achieve strategic objectives, planned revenue improvements and cost savings, and may not retain key personnel of the acquired businesses. Sony’s operating results may also be adversely affected by the assumption of liabilities related to any acquired businesses. Sony currently has investments in several joint ventures and strategic partnerships, and may engage in new investments in the future. If Sony and its partners are unable to reach their common financial objectives successfully due to changes in the competitive environment, strategic or cultural differences, failure to achieve synergies or other reasons, Sony’s operating results may be adversely affected. Sony’s operating results may also be adversely affected in the short- and medium-term during a partnership, even if Sony and its partners remain on course to achieve their common financial objectives. In addition, by participating in joint ventures or other strategic investments, Sony may encounter conflicts of interest, may not maintain sufficient control over these relationships, including over cash flow, and may be faced with an increased risk of the loss of proprietary technology or know-how. Sony’s reputation may be harmed by the actions or activities of a joint venture that uses the Sony brand. Sony may also be required to provide additional funding or debt guarantees to a joint venture, or to buy-out a joint venture partner, sell its share or dissolve a joint venture, whether as a result of financial performance, or otherwise. Moreover, if the value of any of Sony’s investments in an affiliate accounted for under the equity method declines below the carrying value of Sony’s investment, and such decrease is judged to be other than temporary, Sony will be required to record an impairment loss, and the loss may increase if Sony is unable to dispose of such investments due to contractual or other reasons. Sony may not be able to recoup the capital expenditures or investments it makes to increase production capacity. Sony continues to invest in production facilities and equipment in its electronics businesses, including image sensor fabrication facilities to meet the increasing demand for image sensors, particularly for use in smartphones. For example, in March 2014, Sony acquired semiconductor fabrication equipment and certain related assets for 7.5 billion yen from Renesas Electronic Corporation, and established Sony Semiconductor Corporation Yamagata Technology Center. Sony invested approximately 44 billion yen of capital in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and will invest approximately 210 billion yen of capital in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2016, in order to increase image sensor production capacity. However, if unforeseen market changes and corresponding declines in demand result in a mismatch between sales volume and anticipated production volumes, or if unit sales prices decline due to market oversupply, Sony may not be able to recover its capital expenditures or investments, in part or in full, or the recovery of these capital expenditures or investments may take longer than expected. In particular, with respect to image sensors, much of Sony’s sales depends on smartphones, and it is possible that Sony will not be able to achieve its expected sales volume, based on factors such as consumer demand and the competitive environment in the smartphone market, or the business decisions, operating results, or financial condition of Sony’s major customers. As a result of these factors, the carrying value of the related assets may be subject to an impairment charge, which may adversely affect Sony’s profitability. Sony’s sales and profitability may be affected by the operating performance of wholesalers, retailers and other resellers. Sony is dependent on wholesalers, retailers and other resellers to distribute its products, many of whom also distribute competitors’ products. For example, Sony Mobile Communications Inc. is dependent on cellular network carriers’ distribution channels for distribution of its smartphone products in many countries. The operating results and financial condition of many wholesalers, retailers and other resellers have been adversely impacted by competition from online retailers and weak economic conditions. Sony invests in programs to incentivize wholesalers, retailers, and other resellers to position and promote Sony’s products, but there is no assurance that these programs will provide a significant return or incremental revenue by persuading consumers to buy Sony products instead of competitors’ products. In some cases, Sony’s smartphones sold through cellular network carriers are subsidized by the carriers. There is no assurance that such subsidies will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of Sony’s agreements with these carriers or in agreements Sony enters into with new carriers. 10 Table of Contents Sony also sells many of its products directly to consumers through its online and retail stores. Some wholesalers and retailers may perceive Sony’s direct sales as conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of Sony’s products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of Sony’s products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. Sony’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected if the financial condition of these wholesalers, retailers, and other resellers weakens, if they stop distributing Sony’s products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for Sony’s products or other factors cause them to reduce their ordering, marketing, subsidies, and distribution of Sony’s products. Increased reliance on external business partners may increase financial, brand image, reputational and other risks to Sony. With the increasing necessity of pursuing quick business development and high operating efficiency with limited managerial resources, Sony increasingly relies on third-party suppliers and business partners for parts and components, software and network services. Sony also relies on other business partners to provide software technologies, such as the Android OS for mobile products and televisions, and services. As a result of this reliance on third-party suppliers and business partners, Sony’s products or services may be affected by quality issues caused by the failure of third-party parts and components, software, or network services. In addition, reliance on third-party software technologies may make it increasingly difficult for Sony to differentiate its products from competitors’ products. Moreover, third-party parts and components, software and network services used in Sony products or services may be subject to copyright or patent infringement claims. Particularly in Sony’s electronics businesses, the uncertain economic environment surrounding Sony is compounded by continued, intense pricing pressure from competitors, shrinking markets for certain key products and shorter product cycles. In this environment, third-party business partners may also discontinue support or otherwise change business terms for Sony’s products and services, or prioritize the products and services of Sony’s competitors or customers outside the electronics industry. Such issues resulting from reliance on third-party suppliers and business partners for parts and components, software, and network services may adversely affect Sony’s operating results, brand image or reputation. Sony also utilizes outsourced manufacturing services for product and component supply in its consumer electronics businesses. If Sony cannot adequately manage these outsourcing relationships, or if natural disasters, cyber-attacks or other events affect Sony’s business partners, Sony’s production operations may be adversely affected. Sony may not be able to achieve target volume or quality levels, and may face a risk of the loss of proprietary technology or know-how. Sony also consigns activities, including certain procurement, logistics, sales, data processing, human resources, accounting, and other services, to external business partners. Sony’s operations may be affected if the external business partners do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, or if they infringe third-party intellectual property rights, or if they are subject to business or service interruption caused by accidents, natural disasters, cyber-attacks or bankruptcies. Furthermore, a breach of a business partner’s information security may result in unauthorized access to Sony’s business information, including proprietary information, intellectual property, employee information and data related to Sony’s customers, suppliers and other business partners. Sony must efficiently manage its procurement of parts and components, the market conditions for which are volatile, and control its inventory of products, parts, and components, the demand for which is volatile. In Sony’s electronics businesses, Sony uses a large volume of parts and components, such as semiconductors including chipsets for mobile products, and LCD panels, for its products. Fluctuations in the availability and pricing of parts and components can adversely affect Sony’s operating results. For instance, shortages of parts or components or fluctuations in the prices of raw materials may result in sharply higher prices and an increase in the cost of goods sold. Also, shortages or delayed shipments of critical parts or components, particularly where Sony is substantially reliant on one supplier, where there is limited production capacity for custom components, or where there are initial manufacturing capacity constraints for products or components which use new technologies, may result in a reduction or suspension of production at Sony’s or its business partners’ manufacturing sites. 11 Table of Contents Sony places orders for parts and components in line with production and inventory plans determined in advance based on its forecast of consumer demand, which is highly volatile and difficult to predict. Inaccurate forecasts of consumer demand or inadequate management can lead to a shortage or excess of inventory, which can disrupt production plans and result in lost sales opportunities or inventory adjustments. Sony writes down the value of its inventory when the underlying parts, components or products have become obsolete, when inventory levels exceed the amount expected to be used, or when the value of the inventory is otherwise recorded at a value higher than net realizable value. In the past, for example, Sony has experienced a shortage of certain chipsets, semiconductors and LCD panels, which resulted in Sony’s inability to meet consumer demand for its products, as well as a surplus in certain semiconductors and LCD panels that resulted in inventory write-downs when the prices of these parts and components fell. Also, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, Sony recorded a 17.4 billion yen write-down of excess components in inventory, as well as 8.0 billion yen of expenses to compensate suppliers for unused components, as a result of the termination of future manufacturing following Sony’s announcement to exit from the PC business. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Sony recorded an 11.2 billion yen write-down of PlayStation®Vita (“PS Vita”) and PlayStation TV (“PS TV”) components because the latest forecast of PS TV unit sales did not reach Sony’s original forecast. Additionally, Sony has experienced shortages of certain parts and components as a result of the damage to its suppliers caused by natural disasters, and may experience such shortages due to similar circumstances again in the future. Such lost sales opportunities, inventory adjustments, or shortages of parts and components have had and may have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Sony’s sales and profitability are sensitive to economic, employment and other trends in Sony’s major markets. Sony’s sales and profitability are sensitive to economic, employment and other trends in each of the major markets in which Sony operates. These markets may be subject to significant economic downturns, having an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and financial condition. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, 27.2 percent, 23.5 percent and 18.6 percent of Sony’s sales were attributable to Japan, Europe and the U.S., respectively. Sony’s operating results depend on the demand from consumers and commercial customers and the performance of retailers, wholesalers and other resellers. An actual or expected deterioration of economic conditions in any of Sony’s major markets may depress consumer confidence and spending, resulting in an actual decline in consumption. Commercial customers and other business partners may experience deterioration in their own businesses mainly due to cash flow shortages, difficulty in obtaining financing and reduced end-user demand, resulting in reduced demand for Sony’s products and services. Commercial customers’ difficulty in fulfilling their obligations to Sony may also have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and cash flows. Sony’s suppliers are also susceptible to similar conditions that may impact their ability to fulfill their contractual obligations and may adversely impact Sony’s operating results if products and services cannot be obtained at competitive prices. Global economic conditions may also affect Sony in other ways. For example, further restructuring charges, higher pension and other post-retirement benefit costs or funding requirements, and additional asset impairment charges, among other factors, have had and may in the future have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Foreign exchange rate fluctuations can affect Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Sony’s operating results and financial condition are sensitive to foreign exchange rate fluctuations because many of Sony’s products are sold in countries other than the ones in which they were developed and/or manufactured. For example, within Sony’s electronics businesses, research and development and headquarters’ overhead costs are incurred mainly in yen, and manufacturing costs, including material costs, costs of procurement of parts and components, and costs of outsourced manufacturing services, are incurred mainly in the U.S. dollar and yen. Sales are dispersed and recorded in Japanese yen, the U.S. dollar, euro, Chinese renminbi, and local currencies of other areas, including emerging markets. Consequently, foreign exchange rate fluctuations have had and may have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results, especially when the yen or 12 Table of Contents the euro weaken significantly against the U.S. dollar (as under current circumstances), or when the yen strengthens significantly against the euro. Sony’s operating results may also be adversely impacted by foreign exchange rate fluctuations since Sony’s consolidated statements of income are prepared by translating the local currency denominated operating results of its subsidiaries around the world into yen. Furthermore, as Sony’s businesses have expanded in China and other areas, including emerging markets, the impact of fluctuations of foreign currency exchange rates in these areas against the U.S. dollar and yen has increased. Mid- to long-term changes in exchange rate levels may interfere with Sony’s global allocation of resources and hinder Sony’s ability to engage in research and development, procurement, production, logistics, and sales activities in a manner that is profitable after the effect of such exchange rate changes. Although Sony hedges most of the net short-term foreign currency exposure resulting from import and export transactions shortly before they are projected to occur, such hedging activity cannot entirely eliminate the risk of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. Moreover, since Sony’s consolidated balance sheet is prepared by translating the local currency denominated assets and liabilities of its subsidiaries around the world into yen, Sony’s equity capital may be adversely impacted when the yen strengthens significantly against the U.S. dollar, the euro and/or other foreign currencies. Ratings downgrades or significant volatility and disruption in the global financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of Sony’s funding. Recently, Sony’s credit ratings were adversely impacted by unfavorable operating results and a decline in its financial condition. Future unfavorable operating results and a decline in its financial condition may lead to further downgrades. Any such downgrades may, in turn, result in an increase in Sony’s cost of funding and may have an adverse impact on Sony’s ability to access commercial paper or mid- to long-term debt markets on acceptable terms. Additionally, global financial markets may experience significant levels of volatility and disruption, generally putting downward pressure on financial and other asset prices and impacting credit availability. Historically, Sony’s primary sources of funds are cash flows from operations, the issuance of commercial paper and other debt securities such as term debt as well as borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders. There can be no assurance that such sources will continue to be available at acceptable terms or be sufficient to meet Sony’s needs. As a result, Sony may seek other sources of financing to fund operations, such as the draw-down of funds from contractually committed lines of credit from financial institutions or the sale of assets, in order to repay commercial paper and mid- to long-term debt as they become due, and to meet other operational and liquidity needs. However, such funding sources may also not be available at acceptable terms or be sufficient to meet Sony’s requirements. This, in turn, could have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity. Sony is subject to the risks of operations in different countries. Sony’s operations are conducted in many countries around the world, and these international operations can create challenges. For example, in Sony’s electronics businesses, production and procurement of products, parts and components in China and other Asian countries increase the time necessary to supply products to other markets worldwide, which can make it more difficult to meet changing customer demand. Further, in certain countries, Sony may encounter difficulty in planning and managing operations due to unfavorable political or economic factors, such as armed conflicts, deterioration in foreign relations, domestic cultural and religious conflicts, non-compliance with expected business conduct, local regulations, trade policies and taxation laws and a lack of adequate infrastructure. Moreover, changes in local regulations, trade policies and taxation laws, such as local content regulations, business or investment permit approval requirements, foreign exchange controls, import or export controls, or the nationalization of assets or restrictions on the repatriation of income from foreign operations and investments in major markets and regions may affect Sony’s operating results. For example, a labor dispute or a change in labor regulations or policies may significantly change local labor 13 Table of Contents environments. Such a condition in China or another country in which Sony or a partner manufactures could cause interruptions in production and shipping of Sony’s products and parts, a sharp rise in local labor costs, or a shortage of well-trained employees, which may adversely affect Sony’s operating results. If international or domestic political and military instability disrupts Sony’s business operations or those of its business partners, or depresses consumer confidence, Sony’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, the time required to recover from disruptions, whether caused by these factors or other causes, such as natural disasters or pandemics, may be greater in certain countries. Moreover, as emerging markets are becoming increasingly important to its operations, Sony becomes more susceptible to the above-mentioned risks, which may have an adverse impact on its operating results and financial condition. Sony’s success depends on the ability to recruit and retain skilled technical employees and management professionals. In order to successfully continue to develop, design, manufacture, market, and sell products and services, including networked products, game hardware and software, video and music content and financial instruments in increasingly competitive markets, Sony must attract and retain key personnel, including its executive team, other management professionals, creative talent and skilled employees such as hardware and software engineers. However, there is high demand for such skilled employees, and Sony may be unable to attract or retain qualified employees to meet future business needs. In addition, business divestitures, restructuring or other transformation initiatives may lead to an unintended loss of experienced human resources or know-how. If this should happen, it may adversely affect Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Sony may not be successful in integrating its business strategies and operations across different business units to increase the competitiveness of hardware, software, entertainment content and network services. Sony believes that integrating its hardware, software, entertainment content and network services is essential to differentiate itself in the marketplace and to generate revenue growth and profitability. However, this strategy depends on the continuing development (both inside and outside of Sony) of network services technologies, strategic and operational coordination and prioritization among Sony’s various business units and sales channels, and the standardization of technological and interface specifications industry-wide and across Sony’s networked products and business groups. Furthermore, in such a competitive business environment, which continuously changes with new entrants, it is critical for Sony to continuously introduce enhanced and competitively priced hardware that is seamlessly connected to network platforms, with user interfaces that are innovative and attractive to consumers. Sony also believes that it is essential to provide competitive and differentiated content-based service offerings that include Sony and third-party licensed audio, video and game content from major motion picture and television studios, music labels, game publishers and book publishers. If Sony is not successful in implementing this strategy, it may adversely affect Sony’s reputation, competitiveness and profitability. Sony’s online activities are subject to laws and regulations that can increase the costs of operations or limit its activities. Sony engages in a wide array of online activities, including the sale and marketing of electronics and entertainment products, entertainment network services and financial services, as well as serving as an Internet Services Provider (ISP), and is thus subject to a broad range of related laws and regulations including those relating to privacy, consumer protection, critical infrastructure protection, breach disclosure, data retention and data protection, trans-border data flows, content and broadcast regulation, defamation, age verification and other online child protections, accessibility, installation of cookies or other software on the end-user’s computers or other devices, pricing, advertising to both children and adults, taxation, copyright and trademark, promotions, and billing. The application of such laws and regulations created to address online activities, or for other purposes, including those passed prior to the popular use of the Internet that may be applied to online activities, varies among jurisdictions, may be unclear or unsettled in many instances, and is subject to change. Sony may incur substantial costs to comply with these laws and regulations and may incur substantial penalties, other liabilities, or damage to its reputation if it fails to comply with them. Compliance with these laws and regulations 14 Table of Contents also may cause Sony to change or limit its online activities in a manner that may adversely affect operating results. In addition, Sony’s failure to anticipate changes to relevant laws and regulations, changes in laws that provide protections that Sony relies on in conducting its online activities, or judicial interpretations narrowing such protections, may subject Sony to greater risk of liability, increase the costs of compliance, or limit Sony’s ability to engage in certain online activities. Sales of Sony’s consumer products including game hardware are particularly sensitive to the seasonality of consumer demand. Sony’s G&NS segment offers a relatively small range of hardware, including PlayStation 4, PlayStation®3 and PS Vita, and a significant portion of overall demand for these and other products is weighted towards the year-end holiday season. Sony’s other consumer products are also dependent upon demand during the year-end holiday season. As a result, changes in the competitive environment, changes in market conditions, delays in the release of consumer products, including highly anticipated game software titles, and insufficient supply of hardware during the year-end holiday season can adversely impact Sony’s operating results. The sales and profitability of Sony’s G&NS segment, including network services, depend on the penetration of its gaming platforms, which is sensitive to software line-ups, including software produced by Sony or third-party developers and publishers. In Sony’s G&NS segment, the penetration of gaming platforms is a significant factor driving sales and profitability, which is affected by the ability to provide customers with attractive software line-ups, including software produced by Sony or third-party game software developers and publishers, and with online services, including network and cloud-based gaming and digital content delivery. There is no assurance that third-party game software developers and publishers will continue to develop and release software regularly or at all. Discontinuance or delay of software development or delays in the delivery of new online services may adversely affect Sony’s operating results. Sony’s content businesses, including the Pictures, Music and G&NS segments, and other businesses, are subject to digital theft and illegal downloading. Digital technology, the availability of digital media, and global Internet penetration have created risks with respect to Sony’s ability to protect copyrighted content, including pre-release content, of the Pictures, Music and G&NS segments and other businesses from digital theft and counterfeiting. In particular, software and technologies that enable the duplication, transfer or downloading of digital media files from the Internet and other sources without authorization from the owners of the rights to such content have adversely impacted and continue to threaten the conventional copyright-based business model by making it easier to create, transmit, and redistribute high quality, unauthorized digital media files. The availability of unauthorized content significantly contributes to a decrease in legitimate product sales and puts pressure on the price of legitimate products, which may adversely affect Sony’s operating results. Sony has incurred and will continue to incur expenses to help protect its intellectual property, to develop new services for the authorized digital distribution of motion pictures, television programming, music, and games, and to combat unauthorized digital distribution of its copyrighted content. These initiatives will increase Sony’s near-term expenses and may not achieve their intended result. Operating results for Sony’s Pictures and Music segments vary according to worldwide consumer acceptance and the availability of competing products and entertainment alternatives. Operating results for the Pictures and Music segments can fluctuate depending upon worldwide consumer acceptance of their products, which is difficult to predict. Moreover, the Pictures segment must invest substantial amounts in motion picture and television productions and broadcast programming before learning the extent to which these products will earn consumer acceptance. Similarly, the Music segment must make significant upfront investments in artists before being able to determine how those artists and their recordings will be 15 Table of Contents received by consumers. Further, the commercial success of Sony’s Pictures and Music segments’ products may be impacted by other competing products released at or near the same time, and alternative forms of entertainment and leisure activities available to consumers. Underperformance of a motion picture or television production, especially an “event” or “tent-pole” film, may have an adverse effect on the Pictures segment’s operating results in the year of release or exhibition, and in future years given the high correlation between a product’s level of success from its initial release or exhibition and subsequent revenue from other distribution markets, such as home entertainment and television. Similarly, the underperformance of a recorded music release may have an adverse effect on the Music segment’s operating results in the fiscal year of release. Increases in the costs of producing, acquiring, or marketing entertainment content may adversely affect operating results in Sony’s Music and Pictures segments. The success of Sony’s Music segment is highly dependent on finding and establishing artists, songwriters and music publishing catalogs that appeal to customers over the long term. If the Music segment is unable to find and establish new talented artists and songwriters, its operating results may be adversely affected. Competition to identify, sign and retain such talent is intense as is the competition to sell their music. In the Pictures segment, high demand for top talent continues to contribute to increases in the cost of producing motion pictures and television programming. Competition to acquire motion pictures and television programming is intense and could result in increased acquisition-related spending. Overall increases in production and acquisition costs of the Pictures segment’s products, as well as increases in the costs to market these products, may adversely impact the segment’s operating results. The continuing decline in physical media sales of audio and video content and the adoption of new technologies by consumers may adversely affect operating results in Sony’s Music and Pictures segments. Industry-wide trends such as the general maturation of physical media formats, including CD, DVD and Blu-ray Disc™ formats, the shift to digital distribution of audio and video content, and increased competition for retailer shelf space have contributed to and may continue to contribute to an industry-wide decline in the worldwide sales of physical media formats. In addition, rapid changes in technology and the adoption of new technology by consumers have impacted the timing and manner in which consumers acquire and view entertainment products. While alternative models for selling entertainment content have emerged, such as digital downloads and subscription streaming services, these revenue streams may not be sufficient to offset the decline in physical media sales that has affected and may continue to affect the operating results of Sony’s Music and Pictures segments and disc manufacturing business. Furthermore, the music industry has very recently seen a year-over-year decline in digital download sales, the largest digital revenue stream. Should this decline accelerate, or if streaming services cannot attract sufficient subscribers to offset this decline, the operating results of Sony’s Music segment could be negatively impacted. Operating results of Sony’s Pictures segment may be adversely affected by changes in advertising markets or by the failure to renew, or renewal on less favorable terms of, television carriage contracts (broadcasting agreements). The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers’ current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect the Pictures segment’s television revenues. The Pictures segment’s television operations, including its worldwide television networks, derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms. A decline in overall spending within the advertising market may have a direct adverse effect on the Pictures segment’s Media Networks’ revenues. The Pictures segment also recognizes sales from the licensing of its motion picture and television content, to U.S. and international television network customers. A decline in the advertising market may also adversely affect third-party television networks’ ability to generate advertising and subscription revenues, which may result in lower license fees paid by these networks for Sony’s content. The Pictures segment also depends on third-party cable, satellite and other distribution systems to distribute its worldwide television networks. The failure to renew or renewal on less favorable terms of television carriage contracts (broadcasting agreements) with these third-party distributors may adversely affect the Pictures segment’s ability to generate advertising and subscription sales through its worldwide television networks. 16 Table of Contents Sony’s Pictures segment is subject to labor interruption. The Pictures segment and certain of its suppliers are dependent upon highly specialized union members, including writers, directors, actors and other talent, and trade and technical employees, who are covered by union contracts and are essential to the development and production of motion pictures and television programming. A strike by one or more of these unions, or the possibility of a strike, work slowdown or work stoppage caused by uncertainties about, or the inability to reach agreement on, a new contract could delay or halt production activities. Such a delay or halt, depending on the length of time involved, could cause a delay or interruption in the release of new motion pictures and television programs and thereby may adversely affect operating results and cash flows in the Pictures segment. An inability to reach agreement on one or more of these union contracts or renewal on less favorable terms may also increase costs within Sony’s Pictures segment and have an adverse effect on operating results. Sony’s Financial Services segment operates in highly regulated industries, and new rules, regulations and regulatory initiatives by government authorities may adversely affect the flexibility and the operating results of the Financial Services segment. Sony’s Financial Services segment operates in industries subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision, including the Japanese insurance and banking industries. Future developments or changes in laws, regulations, or policies and their effects are unpredictable and may lead to increased compliance costs or limitations on operations in the Financial Services segment. Due to Sony’s common branding strategy, compliance failures in any of its businesses within the Financial Services segment may have an adverse impact on the overall business reputation of the Financial Services segment. Furthermore, additional compliance costs may adversely affect the operating results of the Financial Services segment. In addition, Sony Corporation’s ability to receive funds from its affiliate Sony Financial Holdings in the form of financial support or loans is restricted by guidelines issued by regulatory agencies in Japan. If these regulations change, it may further reduce Sony Corporation’s ability to receive funds for its use. Declines in the value of equity securities may have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and financial condition, particularly in Sony’s Financial Services segment. In the Financial Services segment, Sony Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (“Sony Life”) holds equity securities and hybrid bond securities that are affected by changes in the value of equity market indices. Declines in equity prices may result in impairment losses and losses on the sales of the equity securities held by Sony Life. In addition, reductions in gains or increases in losses on the sales of equity securities, as well as reductions in unrealized gains or increases in unrealized losses in respect of such hybrid bond securities may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of Sony’s Financial Services segment. Declines in the yield of Sony Life’s separate account assets may result in additional policy reserves being recorded and the accelerated amortization of deferred acquisition costs, since U.S. GAAP requires the review of actuarial assumptions used for the valuation of policy reserves concerning minimum death guarantees for variable life insurance and the amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Additional policy reserves and accelerated amortization of deferred acquisition costs may have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results. For equity securities held by Sony outside of the Financial Services segment, a decrease in fair value could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Any such charge may adversely affect Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Changes in interest rates may adversely affect the operating results and financial condition of Sony’s Financial Services segment. Sony’s Financial Services segment engages in asset liability management (“ALM”) in an effort to manage its investment assets in a manner appropriate to its liabilities, which arise from the insurance policies that Sony’s Financial Services segment underwrites in both its life insurance and non-life insurance businesses and the deposits, borrowings and other liabilities in its banking business. ALM considers the long-term balance between 17 Table of Contents assets and liabilities in an effort to ensure stable returns. Any failure to appropriately conduct its ALM activities, or any significant changes in market conditions beyond what its ALM may reasonably address, may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and operating results of the Financial Services segment. In particular, because Sony Life’s liabilities to policyholders generally have longer durations than its investment assets, which are concentrated in long-term Japanese national government bonds, lower interest rates tend to reduce yields on Sony Life’s investment portfolio while guaranteed yields (assumptions used for calculation of policy reserve provisions) remain generally unchanged on outstanding policies. As a result, Sony Life’s profitability and long-term ability to meet policy commitments may be adversely affected. The investment portfolio within Sony’s Financial Services segment exposes Sony to a number of additional risks other than the risks related to declines in the value of equity securities and changes in interest rates. In the Financial Services segment, generating stable investment income is important to its operations, and the Financial Services segment’s investments are concentrated in long-term Japanese national government bonds, although it also has investments in a variety of asset classes, including shorter-term Japanese national government bonds, Japanese local government and corporate bonds, foreign government and corporate bonds, Japanese stocks, loans and real estate. In addition to risks related to changes in interest rates and the value of equity securities, the Financial Services segment’s investment portfolio is exposed to a variety of other risks, including foreign exchange risk, credit risk and real estate investment risk, any or all of which may have an adverse effect on the operating results and financial condition of the Financial Services segment. For example, mortgage loans account for 90.5 percent of the total loan balance, or 51.8 percent of the total assets of Sony Bank Inc. (“Sony Bank”), as of March 31, 2015. An increase in non-performing loans or a decline in the prices of real estate, the collateral for these mortgage loans provided by Sony Bank, may have an adverse effect on the creditworthiness of Sony Bank’s loan portfolio and increase credit-related costs for Sony Bank. Differences between actual and assumed policy benefits and claims may require Sony’s Financial Services segment to increase policy reserves in the future. The life insurance and non-life insurance businesses of the Financial Services segment establish policy reserves for future benefits and claims based on the Insurance Business Act of Japan and related regulations. These reserves are calculated based on many assumptions and estimates, including the frequency and timing of the event covered by the policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets these businesses purchase with the premiums received. These assumptions and estimates are inherently uncertain, and the Financial Services segment cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts that it will be required to pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits and claims, or whether the assets supporting the policy liabilities will grow at the level assumed prior to the payment of benefits or claims. The frequency and timing of an event covered by a policy and the amount of benefits or claims to be paid are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of its control, including: • changes in trends underlying its assumptions and estimates, such as mortality and morbidity rates; • the availability of sufficient reliable data and its ability to correctly analyze the data; • the selection and application of appropriate pricing and rating techniques; and • changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices and medical care expenses. If the actual experience of the insurance businesses becomes significantly less favorable than their assumptions or estimates, their policy reserves may be inadequate. Any changes in regulatory guidelines or standards with respect to the required level of policy reserves may also require that the insurance businesses establish policy reserves based on more stringent assumptions, estimates or actuarial calculations. Such events may result in a need to increase provisions for policy reserves, which may have an adverse effect on the operating results and financial condition of the Financial Services segment. 18 Table of Contents Furthermore, if actual insurance claims are higher than the estimated provision for policy reserves due to the occurrence of catastrophic events such as earthquakes or pandemic diseases in Japan, or if strategies for hedging minimum guarantees in individual variable annuities are ineffective, then the operating results and financial condition of the Financial Services segment may be adversely impacted. Sony’s physical facilities and information systems are subject to damage as a result of catastrophic disasters, outages, malfeasance or similar events. Such an unexpected catastrophic event may also lead to supply chain and production disruptions as well as lower demand from commercial customers, resulting in an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results. Sony’s headquarters and many of Sony’s most advanced device manufacturing facilities, including those for semiconductors, are located in Japan, where the risk of earthquakes is relatively high compared to other parts of the world. A major earthquake in Japan, especially in Tokyo where Sony headquarters are located, the Tokai area where certain product manufacturing sites are located, or the Kyushu and Tohoku areas, where Sony’s semiconductor manufacturing sites are located, could cause greater damage to Sony’s business operations than the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, including damage to buildings, machinery, equipment and inventories and interruption to production at manufacturing facilities. In addition, offices and facilities used by Sony, its service providers and business partners, including those used for network, telecommunications and information systems infrastructure, research and development, material procurement, manufacturing, motion picture and television production, logistics, sales, and online and other services are located throughout the world and are subject to possible destruction, temporary stoppage or disruption as a result of unexpected catastrophic events such as natural disasters, pandemic diseases, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, large-scale power outages and large-scale fires. If any of these facilities or offices were to experience a significant loss as a result of any of the above events, it may disrupt Sony’s operations, delay design, development or production, interrupt shipments and postpone the recording of sales, and result in large expenses to repair or replace these facilities or offices. In addition, if Sony’s suppliers are damaged by such catastrophic events, Sony may be exposed to supply shortages of raw materials, parts or components, which may result in a reduction or suspension of production, interruption of shipment and delays in product launches. Sony may also be exposed to price increases for raw materials, parts and components, and lower demand from commercial customers. These situations may have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Moreover, as computer systems, networks and online services have become increasingly important to Sony’s operating activities, the impact that computer system, network and online service shutdowns may have on Sony’s operating activities has increased. Shutdowns may be caused by events similar to those described above or other unforeseen events, such as software or hardware defects. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Sony’s Pictures segment experienced a serious disruption of its network and IT infrastructure as a result of a cyber-attack. As a result, the Pictures segment, and therefore Sony, was unable to close its financial statements for the third quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 within the customary timeframe for reporting consolidated quarterly results. Similar events may result in the disruption of Sony’s major business operations, delays in financial reporting, design, development, production, shipments and recognition of sales, and large expenditures necessary to enhance, repair or replace such facilities and network and information systems. Furthermore, Sony’s insurance may be insufficient to cover the resulting expenditures and losses. Sony also may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance in the future, or insurance premiums may increase. These situations may have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Sony’s brand image, reputation and business may be harmed and Sony may be subject to legal and regulatory claims if there is loss, destruction, disclosure, misappropriation or alteration of or unauthorized access to data owned or maintained by Sony, including on Sony networks or those of third-party service providers and business partners, or if there is any other breach of Sony’s information security, regardless of where or in what form information is stored. As a critical element of its operations, Sony, its third-party service providers and other business partners make extensive use of information technology, including computer systems, networks and online services to 19 Table of Contents receive, store, process and transmit information, including Sony’s business information, which includes but is not limited to proprietary information, intellectual property, and employee information, and data related to customers, suppliers, and other business partners. The security of information received, maintained, processed or transmitted by Sony’s or a third party’s information technology systems may be compromised by a malicious third party, or a man-made or natural event, or impacted by intentional or inadvertent actions or inactions by Sony employees, a third-party service provider or other business partner. As cyber-attacks become increasingly sophisticated, and as tools and resources become more readily available to malicious third parties, there can be no guarantee that Sony’s actions, security measures and controls designed to prevent, detect or respond to intrusion, to limit access to data, to prevent destruction, alteration, or exfiltration of data, or to limit the negative impact from such attacks, can provide absolute security against compromise. As a result, Sony’s business information, including proprietary information, intellectual property, and employee information, and data related to customers, suppliers, and other business partners, may be lost, destroyed, disclosed, misappropriated, altered, or accessed without consent, and Sony’s information technology systems, or those of its service providers or other business partners, may be disrupted. Malicious third parties may also use unauthorized access to Sony’s networks as a platform to access the networks and thereby the information of Sony’s third-party business partners without Sony’s knowledge. Sony has previously been the subject of sophisticated and targeted attacks. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Sony’s Pictures segment was subject to a cyber-attack that resulted in unauthorized access to, and theft and disclosure of Sony business information, including employee information and other information, and the destruction of data. In addition, Sony’s network services, online game businesses and websites of certain subsidiaries have been subject to cyber-attacks by groups and individuals with a range of motives and expertise, resulting, in some instances, in unauthorized access to, the potential or actual theft of, and/or disclosure of customer information. In addition, even if such data is not stored on a network, and regardless of where or in what form such data is stored, Sony’s business information and other data owned or maintained by or on behalf of Sony may be compromised by malicious third parties, or man-made or natural events, or impacted by intentional or inadvertent actions or inactions of Sony employees, or those of a third-party service provider, through loss, destruction, disclosure, misappropriation, alteration or unauthorized access to such data. Further, the confidentiality, integrity and availability of products and services, including networked products and online services, provided by Sony or its service providers or business partners may be compromised by malicious third parties or man-made or natural events, or impacted by intentional or inadvertent actions or inactions by Sony employees, or those of a third-party service provider or business partner. For example, Sony’s online services and websites have been subjected to denial-of-service and other attacks by technically sophisticated and well-resourced third parties and others. Any loss, destruction, disclosure, misappropriation or alteration of or unauthorized access to data owned or maintained by or on behalf of Sony, or other breach of Sony’s information security, whether or not the result of a cyber-attack, including disruption to its products and services, can result in significant remediation costs, including repairing system damage, engaging third-party experts, deploying additional personnel, training employees, and compensation or incentives offered to third parties whose data has been compromised. In addition, a disruption to Sony’s networks and online services may seriously disrupt the businesses that rely on these networks and online services for their operations, resulting in lost revenues, damage to relationships with business partners and other third parties, and the failure to retain or attract customers. Breaches of information security, whether or not involving a cyber-attack, may lead to lost revenues resulting from a loss in competitive advantage due to the unauthorized disclosure, alteration, destruction or use of proprietary information, including intellectual property, the failure to retain or attract customers, the disruption of critical business processes or information technology systems, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Moreover, such disruptions and breaches may result in adverse media coverage, which may harm Sony’s brand image and reputation. Sony may also be subject to legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, and the attendant legal fees, as well as potential settlements, judgments and fines. Sony’s cyber insurance may not cover all expenses and losses and, accordingly, cyber-attacks may have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Even without actual breaches of information security, protection against increasingly sophisticated and prevalent cyber-attacks may result in significant future prevention, detection, 20 Table of Contents response and management costs, or other costs, including the deployment of additional cyber-security technologies, engaging third-party experts, deploying additional personnel, and training employees. Such expenses may also have an adverse impact on Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Sony’s business may suffer as a result of adverse outcomes of current or future litigation and regulatory actions. Sony faces the risk of litigation and regulatory proceedings in different countries in connection with its operations. Legal proceedings, including regulatory actions, may seek to recover very large indeterminate amounts or to limit Sony’s operations, and the possibility that they may arise and their magnitude may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. For example, legal proceedings, including regulatory actions, may result from antitrust scrutiny of market practices for anti-competitive conduct. A substantial legal liability or adverse regulatory outcome and the substantial cost to defend the litigation or regulatory proceedings may have an adverse effect on Sony’s business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and reputation. Sony is subject to financial and reputational risks due to product quality and liability issues. Sony’s products and services, such as consumer products, non-consumer products, parts and components, semiconductors, software and network services are becoming increasingly sophisticated and complicated as rapid advancements in technologies occur and as demand increases for mobile products and online services. Sony’s efforts to manage the rapid advancements in technologies and increased demand for mobile products and online services, while also maintaining product quality, may not be successful and may increase exposure to liability. As a result, Sony may incur both reputational damage and expenses in connection with, for example, product recalls and after-sales services. In addition, allegations of safety issues related to Sony products, or lawsuits related to product quality or product safety, regardless of merit, may adversely impact Sony’s operating results and financial condition, either directly or as a result of the impact on Sony’s brand image and reputation as a producer of high-quality products and services. These issues are relevant to Sony products sold directly to customers, whether manufactured by Sony or a third party, and also to products of other companies that are equipped with Sony’s components, such as semiconductors. Sony’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by its employee benefit obligations. Sony recognizes an unfunded pension obligation for its defined benefit pension plans based on (i) the Projected Benefit Obligation (“PBO”) under each pension plan less (ii) the fair value of the pension plan’s assets, in accordance with the accounting guidance for defined benefit plans. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized and included in pension expenses in a systematic manner over employees’ average remaining service periods. Any decrease of the pension plan asset value due to low returns from investments or increases in the PBO due to a lower discount rate, increases in rates of compensation and changes in certain other actuarial assumptions may increase the unfunded pension obligations and may result in an increase in pension expenses recorded as cost of sales or as a selling, general and administrative expense. Sony’s operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the status of its Japanese and foreign pension plans. Specifically, adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit markets may have an unfavorable impact on the value of Sony’s pension plan assets and its future estimated pension liabilities, the majority of which relate to the Japanese plans, which have approximately 30 percent of pension plan assets invested in equity securities. As a result, Sony’s operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, Sony’s operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by future pension funding requirements pursuant to the Japanese Defined Benefit Corporate Pension Plan Act (“Act”). Under the Act, Sony is required to meet certain financial criteria including periodic actuarial revaluation and annual settlement of gains or losses of the plan. In the event that the actuarial reserve required by law exceeds the fair value of pension plan assets and that the fair value of pension assets may not be recovered within a certain moratorium period permitted by laws and/or special legislative decree, Sony may be required to make an additional contribution to the plan, which may reduce cash flows. Similarly, if Sony is required to make an 21 Table of Contents additional contribution to a foreign plan to meet any funding requirements in accordance with local laws and regulations in each country, Sony’s cash flows might be adversely affected. If Sony is required to increase cash contributions to its pension plans when actuarial assumptions, such as an expected long-term rate of return of the pension plan assets, are updated for purposes of determining statutory contributions, it may have an adverse impact on Sony’s cash flows. Further losses in jurisdictions where Sony has established valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, the inability of Sony to fully utilize its deferred tax assets, exposure to additional tax liabilities or changes in Sony’s tax rates could adversely affect net income (loss) attributable to Sony Corporation’s stockholders and Sony’s financial condition. Sony is subject to income taxes in Japan and numerous other jurisdictions, and in the ordinary course of Sony’s business there are many situations where the ultimate tax determination can be uncertain, sometimes for an extended period. The calculation of Sony’s tax provision and the carrying value of tax assets and liabilities requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, including estimates of future taxable income. Deferred tax assets are evaluated on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. In certain jurisdictions, Sony has established valuation allowances against deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, where it has concluded that the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized. As of March 31, 2015, Sony had valuation allowances principally in the following jurisdictions: (1) Sony Corporation and its national filing group in Japan, as well as for local taxes in a number of Japanese subsidiaries; (2) Sony Americas Holding Inc. and its consolidated tax filing group in the U.S.; (3) Sony Mobile Communications AB in Sweden; and (4) Sony Europe Limited in the U.K. In jurisdictions where valuation allowances have been established, no tax benefit will be recorded against any continuing losses and as a result, net income (loss) attributable to Sony Corporation’s stockholders and Sony’s financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, deferred tax assets could expire unused or otherwise not be realizable if Sony is unable to implement tax planning strategies or generate sufficient taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction in the future (from operations and/or tax planning strategies) to utilize them, or if Sony enters into transactions that limit its legal ability to use them. As a result, Sony may lose any associated cash tax reduction available in future periods. If it becomes more likely than not that any of Sony’s remaining deferred tax assets without valuation allowances will expire unused and are not available to offset future taxable income, or otherwise will not be realizable, Sony will have to recognize an additional valuation allowance, increasing income tax expense. Net income (loss) attributable to Sony Corporation’s stockholders and Sony’s financial condition could be adversely affected when the deferred tax assets expire unused or in periods in which an additional valuation allowance is recorded. A key factor in the evaluation of the deferred tax assets and the valuation allowance is the determination of the uncertain tax positions related to the adjustments for Sony’s intercompany transfer pricing. Sony is subject to income taxes in Japan and numerous other jurisdictions, and in the ordinary course of Sony’s business there are many transactions, including intercompany charges, where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Sony is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by tax authorities and, as a result, Sony regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Significant judgment is required in making these assessments and, as additional evidence becomes available in subsequent periods, the ultimate outcomes for Sony’s uncertain tax positions and, accordingly, its valuation allowance assessments may potentially have an adverse impact on net income (loss) attributable to Sony Corporation’s stockholders and Sony’s financial condition. In some jurisdictions, the use of net operating loss carryforwards to reduce taxable income in a subsequent period is limited to a fixed percentage of taxable income. Thus, it is possible that even with significant net operating loss carryforwards, Sony could record and pay taxes in a jurisdiction where it has taxable income but still has significant net operating loss carryforwards available. In addition to the above, Sony’s future effective tax rates may be unfavorably affected by changes in both the statutory rates and the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory rates or by other factors such as changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation, including limitations or restrictions on the use of net operating loss and income tax credit carryforwards. 22 Table of Contents Sony could incur asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets. Sony has a significant amount of goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, including production facilities and equipment in its electronics businesses. A decline in financial performance, market capitalization or changes in estimates and assumptions used in the impairment analysis, which in many cases requires significant judgment, could result in impairment charges of these assets. Sony tests goodwill and intangible assets that are determined to have an indefinite life for impairment during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and assesses whether factors or indicators, such as unfavorable variances from established business plans, significant changes in forecasted results or volatility inherent to external markets and industries, have become apparent that would require an interim test. In addition, the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets held and used and long-lived assets to be disposed of is reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets or asset groups may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset or asset group is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the asset or asset group exceeds its fair value. For example, in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2014, Sony recorded impairment charges including a 32.1 billion yen impairment charge related to long-lived assets in the battery business in the Devices segment, a 25.6 billion yen impairment charge related to long-lived assets in the disc manufacturing business outside of Japan and the U.S. and goodwill across the entire disc manufacturing business in All Other, and a 12.8 billion yen impairment charge related to long-lived assets in the PC business in All Other. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015, Sony recorded a 176.0 billion yen impairment charge related to goodwill in the Mobile Communications segment. Any such charge may adversely affect Sony’s operating results and financial condition. Sony may be accused of infringing others’ intellectual property rights and be liable for significant damages. Sony’s products incorporate a wide variety of technologies. Claims have been and may be asserted against Sony that such technology infringes the intellectual property owned by others. Such claims may be asserted by competitors to protect their products and services and/or as a business strategy to seek a competitive advantage, or by other patent holders, particularly as markets become more competitive, and products evolve to include new technologies and enhanced functionality that incorporate an increasing amount of intellectual property. Such claims might require Sony to enter into settlement or license agreements, to pay significant damage awards, and/or to face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting Sony from marketing or selling certain of its products, which may have an adverse effect on Sony’s business, operating results, financial condition and reputation. Sony may not be able to continue to obtain necessary licenses for certain intellectual property rights of others or protect and enforce the intellectual property rights on which its business depends. Many of Sony’s products are designed under the license of patents and other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. Based upon past experience and industry practice, Sony believes that it will be able to obtain or renew licenses relating to various intellectual properties useful in its business that it needs in the future; however, such licenses may not be available at all or on acceptable terms, and Sony may need to redesign or discontinue marketing or selling such products as a result. Additionally, Sony’s intellectual property rights may be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to provide Sony with competitive advantages. Such events may adversely impact Sony’s operating results and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Sony is subject to a wide range of regulations related to social responsibility, such as environmental, occupational health and safety, and certain human rights regulations that can increase the costs of operations, limit its activities, or affect its reputation. Sony is subject to a broad range of social responsibility laws and regulations covering issues related, inter-alia, to the environment, occupational health and safety, labor practices and human rights. These include laws and regulations relating to air pollution; water pollution; the management, elimination or reduction of the use of hazardous substances; energy efficiency of certain products; waste management; recycling of products, batteries and packaging materials; site remediation; worker and consumer health and safety; and human rights issues such as those related to procurement and production processes. For example, Sony is currently required to comply with: • Environmental regulations enacted by the EU, such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) Directive, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directive, the ecodesign requirements for Energy-related Products (“ErP”) Directive and the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) regulation; • Regulations or governmental policies related to climate change issues such as carbon disclosure, greenhouse gas emission reduction, carbon taxes and energy efficiency for electronics products; and • Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which requires annual disclosures related to “Conflict Minerals” and their derivatives that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured by Sony. “Conflict Minerals” are defined as cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, gold, wolframite, and other minerals determined by the U.S. government to be financing conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. Additionally, there is a growing global consumer focus on companies’ social responsibilities. In particular, there is an interest regarding labor practices, including work environments at electronics components’ manufacturers and original design manufacturing/original equipment manufacturing (“ODM/OEM”) product manufacturers operating in the Asian region. These social responsibility laws and regulations may become more significant, and additional social responsibility laws and regulations may be adopted in the future. Further countries, including emerging market countries, are enacting similar laws and regulations. Such new laws and regulations may result in an increase in Sony’s cost of compliance. Additionally, if Sony is not perceived as having responded to existing and new laws and regulations in these varied areas, it may result in fines, penalties, legal judgments or other costs or remediation obligations, and may adversely affect Sony’s operating results and financial condition. In addition, such a finding of non-compliance, or the perception that Sony has not responded appropriately to growing consumer concern for such issues, whether or not Sony is legally required to do so, may adversely affect Sony’s reputation. Sony’s operating results and financial condition may also be adversely affected if consumers therefore choose to purchase products of other companies. Holders of American Depositary Shares have fewer rights than shareholders and may not be able to enforce judgments based on U.S. securities laws. The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining Sony’s accounting books and records, and exercising appraisal rights, are available only to shareholders of record. Because the depositary, through its custodian agents, is the record holder of the shares underlying the American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”), only the depositary can exercise those rights in connection with the deposited shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the shares underlying ADSs in accordance with the instructions of ADS holders and will pay the dividends and distributions collected from Sony. However, ADS holders will not be able to bring a derivative action, examine Sony’s accounting books and records, or exercise appraisal rights through the depositary. Sony Corporation is incorporated in Japan with limited liability. A majority of Sony’s directors and corporate executive officers are non-U.S. residents, and a substantial portion of the assets of Sony Corporation and the assets of Sony’s directors and corporate executive officers are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may 24 Table of Contents be more difficult for investors to enforce against Sony Corporation or such persons, judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon civil liability provisions of the federal and state securities laws of the U.S. or similar judgments obtained in other courts outside Japan. There is doubt as to the enforceability in Japanese courts, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon the federal and state securities laws of the U.S. 