ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, as well as others described elsewhere in this Annual Report, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition: • Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. Unfavorable and uncertain economic conditions have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, demand for some of our products, resulting in reduced sales volume or a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower margin products. Factors that can affect demand include rates of unemployment, consumer confidence, health care costs, fuel and other energy costs and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, including delays in the timing of tax refunds from the federal government, tax increases, and the expiration of the payroll tax break in December 2012 that resulted in an increase in Social Security taxes for U.S. workers. While the vast majority of our products generally are consumer staples that should be less vulnerable to decreases in discretionary spending than other products, they may become subject to increasing price competition as recessionary conditions continue. Moreover, some of our products, such as laundry additives and battery-operated toothbrushes, are more likely to be affected by consumer decisions to control spending. Some of our customers, including mass merchandisers, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores, wholesale clubs, and dollar, pet and other specialty stores, have experienced and may experience in the future declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis or at all. We regularly review the financial strength of our key customers and, where appropriate, modify customer credit limits, which may have an adverse impact on future sales. Because the same economic conditions impact many of our suppliers, we also regularly conduct a similar review of our suppliers to assess both their financial viability and the importance of their products to our operations. Where appropriate, we intend to identify alternate sources of materials and services. To date, we have not experienced a material adverse impact from economic conditions affecting our customers or suppliers. However, a protracted economic downturn that adversely affects our suppliers and customers could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. • We face intense competition in our markets, and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition from consumer products companies, both in the U.S. and in international markets. Most of our products compete with other widely-advertised brands within each product category and with private label brands and generic nonbranded products of our customers in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower prices. Our products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers. Consumer products, particularly those that are value-priced like many of our products, are subject to significant price competition. As a result, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products, or increase prices by an amount that does not cover manufacturing cost increases, to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. Any reduction in prices, or inability to raise prices sufficiently to cover manufacturing cost increases, would harm profit margins. In addition, if our sales volumes fail to grow sufficiently to offset any reduction in margins, our results of operations would suffer. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position. If our advertising, marketing and promotional programs are not effective or adequate, our sales and volume may be impacted. Many of our competitors are large companies, including The Procter & Gamble Company, The Sun Products Corporation, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Alere Inc. (formerly known as Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc.), 16 Table of Contents Pfizer Inc., Bayer AG, and S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do, and, therefore, have the capacity to outspend us on advertising and promotional activities and introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than we can. In addition, our competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by us. Competitive activity may require us to increase our spending on advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices, which could lead to reduced profits and adversely affect growth. If we lose market share and the markets in which we compete do not grow substantially, our sales levels and operating results will decline. • Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our net sales. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., together with its affiliates (“Wal-Mart”), is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 24% of net sales in 2012, 23% of net sales in 2011 and 23% of net sales in 2010. Our top three customers accounted for approximately 34% of net sales in 2012, 33% of net sales in 2011 and 33% of net sales in 2010. We expect that a significant portion of our net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues. As a result, changes in the strategies of Wal-Mart or any of our other largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, could materially harm our net sales and profitability. In addition, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders and we rarely enter into long-term contracts with our customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from us at any time and for any reason. If we lose a significant customer or if sales of our products to a significant customer materially decrease, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Changes in the policies of our retailer customers and increasing dependence on key retailer customers in developed markets may adversely affect our business. In recent years, we have seen increasing retailer consolidation both in the U.S. and internationally. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailer customers, who may demand lower pricing or special packaging or impose other requirements on us. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Some of our customers, particularly our high-volume retail store customers, have sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms. To the extent we provide concessions or better trade terms to those customers, our margins are reduced. Further, if we are unable to effectively respond to the demands of our customers, these customers could reduce their purchases of our products and increase their purchases of products from our competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability. In addition, reductions in inventory by our customers, including as a result of consolidations in the retail industry, or these customers managing their working capital requirements, could result in reduced orders for our products and adversely affect our results of operations for the financial periods affected by the reductions. The recent economic downturn also caused many of our customers to more critically analyze the number of brands they sell, and reduce or discontinue certain of our product lines, particularly those products that were not number one or two in their category. If this continues to occur and we are unable to improve distribution for those products at other customers, our results could be adversely affected. In addition, private label products sold by retail trade chains are typically sold at lower prices than branded products. As consumers look for opportunities to decrease discretionary spending, our customers have discontinued or reduced distribution of some of our products to encourage those consumers to purchase our customers’ less expensive private label products. To the extent customers discontinue or reduce distribution of 17 Table of Contents our products or our products are adversely affected by our customers’ actions to increase shelf space for their private label products, we will focus our efforts on improving distribution with other customers. However, if our efforts are not effective, our results could be adversely affected. • A continued shift in the retail market from food and drug stores to club stores and mass merchandisers could cause our sales to decline. Our performance depends upon the general health of the economy and of the retail environment in particular, and could be significantly harmed by changes affecting retailing and the financial difficulties of our retailer customers. Consumer products, such as those marketed by us, are increasingly being sold by club stores and mass merchandisers, while sales of consumer products by food and drug stores comprise a smaller proportion of the total volume of consumer products sold. Sales of our products are stronger in the food and drug channels of trade and not as strong in club stores and mass merchandiser channels. Although we have taken steps to improve sales to club stores and mass merchandisers, if the current trend continues and we are not successful in further improving sales to these channels, our financial condition and operating results could suffer. • Sales growth objectives may be difficult to achieve, and price increases, market category declines and changes to our product and geographic mix may impact our financial results. A significant percentage of our revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to high levels of competition. During 2012, approximately 79% of our sales were generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for consumer products are considered mature and commonly characterized by high household penetration, particularly with respect to our most significant product categories, such as laundry detergents, deodorizers, household cleaning products, toothpastes, antiperspirants and deodorants. Our ability to achieve unit sales growth in domestic markets will depend on increased use of our products by consumers, our ability to drive growth through product innovation, investment in our established brands and enhanced merchandising and our ability to capture market share from our competitors. If we are unable to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product improvements, undertake sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that expand our product categories and develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, we may not achieve our sales growth objectives. Even if we are successful in increasing sales within our product categories, a continuing or accelerating decline in the overall markets for our products could have a negative impact on our financial results. • Volatility and increases in the price of raw and packaging materials or energy costs could erode our profit margins, which could harm operating results, and efforts to hedge against raw material price increases may adversely affect our operating results if raw material prices decline. The principal raw materials and packaging we use include surfactants (cleaning agents), paper products and bottles. Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, or increases in the costs of energy, shipping and other necessary services, could significantly affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies, such as in manufacturing and distribution. In particular, during the past few years, we have experienced price increases for raw and packaging materials, diesel fuel and energy. Concerns about the adequacy of oil supply, in the face of increasing demand, continued to affect pricing. We have attempted to address these price increases through cost reduction programs and price increases of our own products, entering into pre-buying arrangements with certain suppliers and entering into hedge agreements for diesel fuel costs. If raw material price increases continue, we may not be able to fully offset them, especially given the competitive environment. This volatility can significantly affect our production cost and could, therefore, harm our financial condition and operating results. We use hedge agreements to mitigate the volatility of diesel fuel prices and related fuel surcharges. The hedge agreements are designed to add stability to our product costs, enabling us to make pricing decisions and lessen the economic impact of abrupt changes in diesel fuel prices over the term of the contract. However, in periods of declining fuel prices, the hedge agreements can have the effect of locking us in at above–market prices for fuel. 18 Table of Contents • If our new products and product line extensions do not gain widespread customer acceptance or are otherwise discontinued, or if they cause sales of our existing products to decline, our financial performance could decline. Our future performance and growth depends on our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product line extensions. We cannot be certain that we will achieve our innovation goals. The successful development and introduction of new products involves substantial research, development, marketing and promotional expenditures, which we may be unable to recover if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which we have limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include product development or launch delays, regulatory approval hurdles and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance. In addition, if sales generated by new products result in a concomitant decline in sales of our existing products, our financial performance could be harmed. From time to time, we have discontinued certain products and product lines, which resulted in returns from customers, asset write-offs and shutdown costs. We may suffer similar adverse consequences in the future to the extent we discontinue products that do not meet expectations or no longer satisfy consumer demand. • If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes, our financial results could suffer. Our financial success is directly dependent on the reputation and success of our brands, particularly the ARM & HAMMER, OXICLEAN and TROJAN brands. The effectiveness of these brands could suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers. Further, our results could be adversely affected if one or more of our leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality or safety issues, or other customer or consumer dissatisfaction, especially if such dissatisfaction were to be broadly disseminated including through the use of social media. Additionally, claims made in our marketing campaigns may become subject to litigation alleging false advertising, which, if successful, could cause us to alter our marketing plans and may materially and adversely affect sales or result in the imposition of significant damages against us. • Product liability claims and withdrawals or recalls could adversely affect our sales and operating results and brand’s reputation. We are, from time to time, subject to product liability claims. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or purportedly caused by our products, including losses or injuries caused by raw materials or other components provided by third party suppliers that are included in our products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, our products contain contaminants, are improperly labeled, or provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Whether or not successful, product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm our sales and operating results and the reputation of our brands. In addition, if one of our products is found to be defective or non-compliant with applicable rules or regulations, we could be required to withdraw or recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although we maintain product liability and product recall insurance coverage (that also covers product withdrawals), potential product liability claims and withdrawal and recall costs may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. • Compliance by us and certain of our suppliers with various existing and future regulations in the countries in which we operate could expose us to increased costs and other adverse consequences. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the United States Department of Agriculture, the EPA and the CPSC. In addition, our operations are subject to the oversight of the EPA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the National Labor Relations Board. Our activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are sold. 19 Table of Contents In particular, the FDA regulates the formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of condoms, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits, battery operated toothbrushes, over-the-counter pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements, including vitamins and minerals. The FDA also exercises oversight over cosmetic products such as depilatories. In addition, under a memorandum of understanding between the FDA and the FTC, the FTC has jurisdiction with regard to the promotion and advertising of these products, and the FTC regulates the promotion and advertising of our other products as well. As part of its regulatory authority, the FDA may periodically conduct inspections of the physical facilities, machinery, processes and procedures that we use to manufacture regulated products and may identify compliance issues that would require us to make certain changes in our manufacturing facilities and processes. The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to regulatory action against the products made in that facility, including seizure, injunction or recall, as well as to possible action against the owner of the facility/manufacturer. We may be required to make additional expenditures to address these issues or possibly stop selling certain products until the compliance issue has been remediated. As a result, our business could be adversely affected. Likewise, any future determination by the FDA or a similar foreign agency, or by us in reviewing our compliance with applicable rules and regulations, that our products or quality systems do not comply with applicable regulations could result in future compliance activities, including product withdrawals or recalls, import detentions, injunctions preventing the shipment of products, or other enforcement actions. For example, the FDA may determine that a particular claim that we use to support the marketing of a product is not substantiated, may not accept the evidence of safety for a new product that we may wish to market, and may challenge the safety or effectiveness of existing products based on, among other things, changes in formulations, inadequate stability or “shelf-life,” consumer complaints, or improper labeling. Similarly, we may identify these or other issues in internal compliance reviews of our operations and the operations and products of vendors and acquired companies. These other issues may include the identification of contaminants or non-compliant levels of particular ingredients. We are in the process of assessing the manufacturing, advertising, labeling and stability of the products of Avid Health, which we recently acquired. As a result of this and similar internal reviews, we may be obligated to, among other things, revise or institute enhanced compliance procedures, revise manufacturing processes, product formulations or labeling, or effect product withdrawals or recalls. Any of the foregoing could subject us to adverse publicity, force us to incur unanticipated costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, Congress, the FDA, the FTC or other federal, state, local or foreign legislative and regulatory authorities may impose additional laws or regulations that apply to us, repeal laws or regulations that we consider favorable to us, or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. We are not able to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect additional governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business in the future. Such developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, expanded adverse event reporting or other new requirements. Any such developments could increase our costs significantly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Our condom product line could suffer if the spermicide N-9 is proved or perceived to be harmful. Our distribution of condoms under the TROJAN brand and other trademarks is regulated by the FDA. Certain of our condoms, and similar condoms sold by our competitors, contain the spermicide nonoxynol-9 (“N-9”). Some interested groups have issued reports that N-9 should not be used rectally or for multiple daily acts of vaginal intercourse. In late 2008, the FDA issued final labeling guidance for latex condoms but excluded N-9 lubricated condoms from the guidance. While we await further FDA guidance on N-9 lubricated condoms we believe that our present labeling for condoms with N-9 is compliant with the overall objectives of the FDA’s guidance, and that condoms with N-9 will remain a viable contraceptive choice for those couples who wish to use them. However, we cannot predict the nature of the labeling that ultimately will be required by the FDA. If the 20 Table of Contents FDA or state governments eventually promulgate rules that prohibit or restrict the use of N-9 in condoms (such as new labeling requirements), we could incur costs from obsolete products, packaging or raw materials, and sales of condoms could decline, which, in turn, could decrease our earnings. • Environmental matters create potential liability risks. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations. We currently are subject to environmental regulatory proceedings involving our Brazilian subsidiary, which has been fined the equivalent of approximately $2.4 million in the proceedings. Our Brazilian subsidiary is contesting the fine. It is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future, particularly with respect to our operations in Brazil that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. • We are subject to risks related to our international operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our international operations subject us to risks customarily associated with foreign operations, including: • currency fluctuations; • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, including without limitations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United Kingdom Bribery Act; • regulatory requirements for certain products; • obstacles to repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to commercialize our products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In all foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. In addition, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Outside of the U.S., sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies, including the Euro, British Pound, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Chinese Yuan and Australian Dollar. A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease operating profits and cash flow. The Company, from time to time, enters into forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations related to anticipated but not yet committed intercompany sales or purchases denominated in the U.S. Dollar, Canadian Dollar, British Pound and Euro. • We may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits. As part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire or invest in businesses that offer products, services or technologies that are complementary to ours. We have made several acquisitions in recent years, including businesses previously operated by Del Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Orange Glo International, Inc., the SIMPLY 21 Table of Contents SALINE nasal moisturizer product line, the FELINE PINE natural cat litter product line and the BATISTE dry shampoo product line. Most recently, we completed the acquisition of Avid Health, a manufacturer of gummy form dietary supplements sold under the L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION brands. We may make additional acquisitions or substantial investments in complementary businesses or products in the future. However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions at attractive valuations, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. In addition, any acquisitions or investments, including the Avid Health acquisition, the integration of which is still ongoing, entail various risks, including the difficulty of entering new markets, the challenges of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or products, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the ongoing business of the acquired company, the need to review and, if necessary, upgrade processes of the acquired company to conform to our own processes, and, generally, our potential inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment. Any of these risks may divert management and other resources, require us to incur unanticipated costs or delay the anticipated positive impact on our business and results of the acquisition. The risks associated with assimilation are increased to the extent we acquire businesses that have stand-alone operations that cannot easily be integrated or operations or sources of supply outside of the U.S. and Canada, for which products are manufactured locally by third parties. These factors could harm our financial condition and operating results. Acquired companies or operations or newly-created ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. In addition, future acquisitions or investments could result in substantial cash expenditures, the potentially dilutive issuances of new equity by us or the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any potential acquisitions or investments, whether or not ultimately completed, could divert the attention of management and resources from other matters that are critical to our operations. • Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations, and we may incur substantially more debt in the future, which could exacerbate these risks. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $903.2 million of total consolidated indebtedness. This amount of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our cash obligations; • limit our ability to fund potential acquisitions; • require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, general adverse economic conditions or changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, to repurchase shares or to fund other activities for general business purposes. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Any decision regarding our future borrowings will be based on the facts and circumstances existing at the time, including our credit rating. • We may not have sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and pay cash dividends. Our ability to repay and refinance our indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures depends on our cash flow. In addition, our ability to pay cash dividends depends on cash flow and net earnings. Our cash flow and net earnings are often subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors 22 Table of Contents beyond our control, and such factors may limit our ability to repay indebtedness, declare and pay cash dividends and repatriate foreign earnings in a cost-effective manner. A failure to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing as needed could have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. • There can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase our Common Stock. Although our Board of Directors has authorized share repurchase programs and recently increased the amount of the quarterly cash dividends payable on our Common Stock, any determinations by us to continue to repurchase the Common Stock or by our Board of Directors to continue to pay cash dividends on the Common Stock will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, price of the Common Stock in the case of the repurchase program, and our Board of Directors’ continuing determination that the repurchase program and the declaration of dividends under the dividend policy are in the best interests of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs. In the event we do not declare a quarterly dividend, or discontinue our share repurchases, our stock price could be adversely affected. • Recent volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to access the credit markets. In recent years, the banking system and financial markets have experienced severe disruption, including, among other things, bank failures and consolidations, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions present the following risks to us, among others: • We are dependent on the continued viability of the financial institutions that participate in the syndicate that is generally obligated to fund our Credit Agreement. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a “commitment increase” feature that enables us to increase the amount of our borrowing under the Credit Agreement, subject to lending commitments and certain conditions. Any disruption in the credit markets could limit the availability of credit or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. • Our short- and long-term credit ratings affect our borrowing costs and access to financing. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. Disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market also could raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. Either scenario could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, together with our access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity, the inability of one or more institutions to fulfill their funding obligations under the Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. • Changes in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The realization of deferred income tax assets is assessed and a valuation allowance is recorded if it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. If the actual amount of our future taxable income is less than the amount we are currently projecting with respect to specific tax jurisdictions, or if there is a change in the time period within which the deferred tax asset becomes deductible, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The recording of a valuation allowance would result in an increase in our effective tax rate, and would have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, which would have either a favorable or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate. 23 Table of Contents • Resolutions of tax disputes may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We provide for uncertain tax positions with respect to tax positions that do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards mandated by applicable accounting guidance. Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or changes to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact our effective tax rate and our financial results. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, when particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. • Failure to effectively utilize or successfully assert intellectual property rights could materially adversely affect our competitiveness. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our trademarks and brand names, including ARM & HAMMER, TROJAN and OXICLEAN. We own the material trademarks, brand names and patents used in connection with the marketing and distribution of our major products both in the U.S. and in other countries. Accordingly, we rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we cannot be sure that our intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license from others intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions relating to such rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the U.S., the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If other parties infringe our intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with our brands and harm our sales. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. • Our operations and the operations of our third party manufacturers, suppliers and customers may be subject to disruption from events beyond our or their control. Our operations, as well as the operations of our third party manufacturers, suppliers and customers may be subject to disruption from a variety of causes, including work stoppages, material shortages, financial difficulties, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, as a result of Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, certain of our operations and the operations of certain of our customers and suppliers, including third party information technology service providers, were affected by the loss of electricity and other disruptions to our and their businesses. The financial impact of such losses and disruptions did not have a material adverse effect on our business, but future events may negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • We rely significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy, interruption, loss of data, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and damage the reputation of our brands. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to conduct our business. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating 24 Table of Contents to internal communications and communications with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, billing customers and receiving and applying payment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other stakeholder information and personal data, and other processes necessary to manage our business. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our information technology systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. Our information technology systems, networks or service providers could be damaged or cease to function properly, or we could suffer a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches. Although we have business continuity plans in place to address service interruptions, if our business continuity plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct our operations which may adversely affect our business. Any business interruptions or data security breaches, including cyber security breaches resulting in private data disclosure, could damage our reputation and could also adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Further, negative postings or comments about us on any social networking website could damage our reputation, as could the disclosure of non-public Company sensitive information through social media. • We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group. Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 