ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, as well as others described elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition: • Economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions has adversely affected demand for some of our products. Factors that can affect demand include rates of unemployment, consumer confidence, health care costs, fuel and other energy costs and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. While the Company’s products generally are consumer staples that should be less vulnerable to decreases in discretionary spending than other products, they may become subject to increasing price competition as recessionary conditions continue. Moreover, some of our products, such as laundry additives and battery-operated toothbrushes, are more likely to be affected by consumer decisions to control spending. Some of our customers, including mass merchandisers, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores, wholesale clubs, pet specialty stores and dollar stores have experienced declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis or at all. In response, we regularly conduct a review of the financial strength of our key customers. As appropriate, we modify customer credit limits, which may have an adverse impact on future sales. Because the same economic conditions are impacting many of our suppliers, we also regularly conduct a similar review of our suppliers to assess both their financial viability and the importance of their products to our operations. Where appropriate, we intend to identify alternate sources of materials and services. To date, we have not experienced a material adverse impact from economic conditions affecting our customers or suppliers. However, a continued economic decline that adversely affects our suppliers and customers could adversely affect our operations and sales. In recent years, the banking system and financial markets have experienced severe disruption, including, among other things, bank failures and consolidations, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions present the following risks to us, among others: • We are dependent on the continued financial viability of the financial institutions that participate in the syndicate that is generally obligated to fund our Credit Agreement. In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a “commitment increase” feature that enables us to increase the size of the revolving credit facility, subject to lending commitments and certain conditions. Any disruption in the credit markets could limit the availability of credit or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. If any financial institutions that are parties to the Credit Agreement are unable to honor their funding commitments, the cash availability under our Credit Agreement and Commercial Paper program may be curtailed. • Downgrades in our credit ratings and other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market could reduce our liquidity or increase our borrowing costs and liquidity. Our short- and long-term credit ratings affect our borrowing costs and access to financing. A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase our borrowing costs and could affect our ability to issue commercial paper. Disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market also could raise our borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. Either scenario could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources. We have not been notified of any circumstances that would prevent any participating financial institution from funding our Credit Agreement. However, under current or future circumstances, such constraints may exist. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, together with our access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity, the inability of one or more institutions to fulfill their funding obligations under the Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations. 14 Table of Contents • If our customers discontinue or reduce distribution of our products or increase private label products, our sales may decline, adversely affecting our financial performance. The economic crisis caused many of our customers to more critically analyze the number of brands they sell which has resulted in their reduction or discontinuance of certain of our product lines, particularly those products that are not number one or two in their category. If this occurs and we are unable to improve distribution for those products at other customers, our Company’s results could be adversely affected. In addition, many of our customers sell products under their own private label brands that compete with products that we sell. As consumers look for opportunities to decrease discretionary spending, our customers have discontinued or reduced distribution of some of our products to encourage those consumers to purchase our customers’ less expensive private label products. To the extent some of our products are discontinued or are adversely affected by our trade customers’ actions to increase shelf space for their private label products, we are focusing our efforts on improving distribution with other customers. Our results could be adversely affected if our efforts are not effective. • If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes our financial results could suffer. Our financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands, particularly the ARM & HAMMER, OXICLEAN and TROJAN brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers. Further, our results could be adversely affected if one of our leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues. • We continue to develop and commercialize new products and product line extensions, but if they do not gain widespread customer acceptance or if they cause sales of our existing products to decline, our financial performance could decline. We strive to introduce new products that are based on current and new technology. The development and introduction of new products involves substantial research, development, marketing and promotional expenditures, which we may be unable to recover if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. In addition, if sales generated by new products result in a concomitant decline in sales of our existing products, our financial performance could be harmed. • We may discontinue products or product lines which could result in returns, asset write-offs and shutdown costs. We also may engage in product recalls that would reduce our cash flow and earnings and could be detrimental to the brand reputation. From time to time, we have discontinued certain products and product lines, which resulted in returns from customers, asset write-offs and shutdown costs. We may suffer similar adverse consequences in the future to the extent we discontinue products that do not meet expectations or no longer satisfy consumer demand. Moreover, product quality defects or safety concerns could result in product recalls. Product returns or recalls, write-offs or shutdown costs would reduce sales, cash flow and earnings and damage the product’s brand reputation. • We face intense competition in a mature industry and we may be required to increase expenditures and accept lower profit margins to preserve or maintain our market share. Unless the markets in which we compete grow substantially, a loss of market share will result in reduced sales levels and declining operating results. During 2011, approximately 79% of our sales were generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for consumer products are considered mature and commonly characterized by high household penetration, particularly with respect to our most significant product categories, such as laundry detergents, deodorizers, household cleaning products, toothpastes, antiperspirants and deodorants. Our unit sales growth in domestic markets will depend on increased use of our products by consumers, product innovation and our ability to capture market share from competitors. We may not succeed in implementing strategies to increase domestic revenues. 15 Table of Contents The consumer products industry, particularly the laundry detergent, personal care and air deodorizer categories, is intensely competitive. To protect existing market share or to capture increased market share, we may need to increase expenditures for promotion and advertising and to introduce and establish new products. Increased expenditures may not prove successful in maintaining or enhancing market share and could result in lower sales and profits. Many of our competitors are large companies, including The Procter & Gamble Company, Sun Products Corporation, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. and S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do, and, therefore, have the capacity to outspend us should they attempt to gain market share. If we lose market share and the markets in which we compete do not grow substantially, our sales levels and operating results will decline. • Providing price concessions or trade terms that are acceptable to our customers, or the failure to do so, could adversely affect our sales and profitability. Consumer products, particularly those that are value-priced like many of our products, are subject to significant price competition. As a result, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products, or increase prices by an amount that does not cover manufacturing cost increases, to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. Any reduction in prices, or inability to raise prices sufficiently to cover manufacturing cost increases, in response to these pressures would harm profit margins. In addition, if our sales volumes fail to grow sufficiently to offset any reduction in margins, our results of operations would suffer. Because of the competitive environment facing many of our customers, particularly our high-volume retail store customers, have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms. To the extent we provide concessions or better trade terms, our margins are reduced. Further, if we are unable to maintain terms that are acceptable to our trade customers, these trade customers could reduce purchases of our products and increase purchases of products from our competitors, which would harm our sales and profitability. • Reductions in inventory by our trade customers, including as a result of consolidations in the retail industry, could adversely affect orders for our products in periods during which the reduction occurs. From time to time our retail customers may reduce inventory levels in managing their working capital requirements. Any reduction in inventory levels by our retail customers will result in reduced orders and harm our operating results for the financial periods affected by the reductions. In particular, continued consolidation within the retail industry could potentially reduce inventory levels maintained by our retail customers, which could result in reduced orders and adversely affect our results of operations for the financial periods affected by the reductions. • A continued shift in the retail market from food and drug stores to club stores and mass merchandisers could cause our sales to decline. Our performance also depends upon the general health of the economy and of the retail environment in particular and could be significantly harmed by changes affecting retailing and by the financial difficulties of retailers. Consumer products such as those marketed by us are increasingly being sold by club stores and mass merchandisers, while sales of consumer products by food and drug stores comprise a smaller proportion of the total volume of consumer products sold. Sales of our products are stronger in the food and drug channels of trade and not as strong in club stores and mass merchandiser channels. Although we have taken steps to improve sales to club stores and mass merchandisers, if we are not successful in further improving sales to these channels, and the current trend continues, our financial condition and operating results could suffer. • Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability. Wal-Mart, together with its affiliates, is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 23% of net sales in 2011, 23% of net sales in 2010 and 22% of net sales in 2009. Our top three customers accounted for 16 Table of Contents approximately 33% of net sales in 2011, 33% of net sales in 2010 and 32% of net sales in 2009. The loss of or a substantial decrease in the volume of purchases by Wal-Mart and its affiliates or any of our other largest customers would harm our sales and profitability. • Failure to repay our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to operate our businesses. As of December 31, 2011, we had $252.3 million of total consolidated indebtedness. Our failure to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing as needed could have a material adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. • We may make acquisitions that result in dilution to our current stockholders or increase our indebtedness, or both. In addition, acquisitions that are not properly integrated or are otherwise unsuccessful could strain or divert our resources. We have made several acquisitions in recent years, including businesses previously operated by Del Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Orange Glo International, Inc., the SIMPLY SALINE nasal moisturizer product line, the FELINE PINE natural cat litter product line and the BATISTE dry shampoo product line. We may make additional acquisitions or substantial investments in complementary businesses or products in the future. Any future acquisitions or investments would entail various risks, including the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or products, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and, generally, our potential inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment. The risks associated with assimilation are increased to the extent we acquire businesses that have stand alone operations that cannot easily be integrated or operations or sources of supply outside of the United States and Canada, for which products are manufactured locally by third parties. These factors could harm our financial condition and operating results. Any future acquisitions or investments could result in substantial cash expenditures, the issuance of new equity by us or the incurrence of additional debt and contingent liabilities. In addition, any potential acquisitions or investments, whether or not ultimately completed, could divert the attention of management and divert other resources from other matters that are critical to our operations. • Our condom product line could suffer if the spermicide N-9 is proved or perceived to be harmful. Our distribution of condoms under the TROJAN and other trademarks is regulated by the FDA. Certain of our condoms, and similar condoms sold by our competitors, contain the spermicide nonoxynol-9 (“N-9”). Some interested groups have issued reports that N-9 should not be used rectally or for multiple daily acts of vaginal intercourse. In late 2008, the FDA issued final labeling guidance for latex condoms but excluded N-9 lubricated condoms from the guidance. While we await further FDA guidance on N-9 lubricated condoms we believe that our present labeling for condoms with N-9 is compliant with the overall objectives of the FDA’s guidance, and that condoms with N-9 will remain a viable contraceptive choice for those couples who wish to use them. However, we cannot predict the nature of the labeling that ultimately will be required by the FDA. If the FDA or state governments eventually promulgate rules that prohibit or restrict the use of N-9 in condoms (such as new labeling requirements), we could incur costs from obsolete products, packaging or raw materials, and sales of condoms could decline, which, in turn, could decrease our earnings. • Our operations and the operations of our third party manufacturers and suppliers may be subject to disruption from events beyond our or their control. Our operations, as well as the operations of our third party manufacturers and significant suppliers may be subject to disruption from a variety of causes, including work stoppages, financial difficulties, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. If a major disruption were to occur at our operations, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents Similar consequences may result with regard to disruptions in the operations of our third party manufacturers or suppliers, some of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business. • Price increases in raw and packaging materials or energy costs could erode our profit margins, which could harm operating results, and efforts to hedge against raw material price increases may adversely affect our operating results if raw material prices decline. Increases in the prices of raw materials such as surfactants, which are cleaning agents, palm oil, paper products and bottles, or increases in energy costs, could significantly affect our profit margins. In particular, during the past few years, we have experienced extraordinary price increases for raw and packaging materials, diesel fuel and energy. Concerns about the adequacy of oil supply, in the face of increasing demand, continued to affect pricing. We use surfactants and bottles in the manufacture and marketing of laundry and household cleaning products. We use paper products for packaging in many of our consumer and specialty chemical products. We use palm oil in certain of our animal nutrition products. We have attempted to address these price increases through cost reduction programs and price increases of our own products, entering into pre-buying arrangements with certain suppliers and entering into hedge agreements for diesel fuel costs. If raw material price increases continue, we may not be able to fully offset them. This could harm our financial condition and operating results. We use hedge agreements to mitigate the volatility of diesel fuel prices and related fuel surcharges. The hedge agreements are designed to add stability to our product costs, enabling us to make pricing decisions and lessen the economic impact of abrupt changes in diesel fuel prices over the term of the contract. However, in periods of declining fuel prices the hedge agreements can have the effect of increasing our expenditures for fuel. • Failure by us or certain of our suppliers to comply with various regulations in the countries which we operate could expose us to enforcement actions or other adverse consequences. The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, marketing and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and the Consumer Product Safety Commission. In addition, our operations are subject to the oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the National Labor Relations Board. Our activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are sold. In particular, the FDA regulates the safety, manufacturing, labeling and distribution of condoms, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits, battery operated toothbrushes and over-the-counter pharmaceuticals. The FDA also exercises oversight over cosmetic products such as depilatories. In addition, under a memorandum of understanding between the FDA and the FTC, the FTC has jurisdiction with regard to the promotion and advertising of these products, and the FTC regulates the promotion and advertising of our other products as well. As part of its regulatory authority, the FDA may periodically conduct inspections of the physical facilities, machinery, processes and procedures that we use to manufacture regulated products and may observe compliance issues that would require us to make certain changes in our manufacturing facilities and processes. The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to regulatory action against the products made in that facility, including seizure, injunction or recall, as well as to possible action against the manufacturer. We may be required to make additional expenditures to address these issues or possibly stop selling certain products until the compliance issue has been remediated. As a result, our business could be adversely affected. For example, the FDA issued a warning letter to us, dated May 16, 2011 (“Warning Letter”), following an inspection of our Princeton, New Jersey headquarters. The Warning Letter stated that our medical device reporting (“MDR”) procedure does not properly identify all required reportable events. The Warning Letter also criticized our proposals for addressing inadequacies previously identified by the FDA as to our complaint handling process. In response, we proposed several corrective actions that were accepted by the FDA, and are 18 Table of Contents engaged in further discussions with the FDA towards resolving the issue relating to our complaint handling process. In addition, partly in response to FDA’s stated concerns, we made product and labeling changes in 2011 and issued a December 2011 safety notice advising consumers about the proper use of SPINBRUSH toothbrushes to avoid injuries associated with improper use of the product. On February 13, 2012, at the conclusion of an inspection of our Princeton facility, FDA issued a Notice of Inspectional Observations (also known as a “483 report”), containing several observations, including a repeat of an issue identified in a previous 483 report and in the Warning Letter, namely a failure to properly identify all required reportable events. In addition, the 483 report addressed inadequacies in procedures and processes related to corrective and preventive actions, complaint handling, maintenance of a quality system record, and establishment of records of acceptable suppliers. We are preparing a response to the 483 report and intend to fully cooperate in resolving FDA’s regulatory concerns. On February 16, 2012, the FDA issued a safety communication warning consumers “of serious injuries and potential hazards associated with the use of SPINBRUSH.” We plan to cooperate with the FDA to address the matters raised in the safety communication warning. There is no assurance that the FDA will not take further enforcement action in connection with the foregoing matters, or that additional safety notices or recalls of our SPINBRUSH product will not be required. Either additional enforcement action, or additional safety notices or recalls, if they were to occur, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Likewise, any future determination by the FDA or similar foreign agency that our products or quality systems do not comply with applicable regulations could result in future compliance activities, including product recalls, import detentions, injunctions preventing the shipment of products, or other enforcement actions (and associated adverse publicity) that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our international operations, including the production of over-the-counter drug products, are subject to regulation in each of the foreign jurisdictions in which we manufacture or market goods. Changes in product standards or manufacturing requirements in any of these jurisdictions could require us to make certain modifications to our operations or product formulations, or to cease manufacturing certain products completely. The effect of the regulatory environment in foreign countries on our over-the-counter and medical devices may affect our ability to market and to make competitive claims for our products. As a result, our international business could be adversely affected. • We are subject to risks related to our international operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our international operations subject us to risks customarily associated with foreign operations, including: • currency fluctuations; • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, including without limitations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. 19 Table of Contents In all foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. These laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the United States and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flow into U.S. dollars. Outside the United States, sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies, including the Euro, British pound, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese yuan and Australian dollar. A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease operating profits and cash flow. • Environmental matters create potential liability risks. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations and we currently are subject to environmental regulatory proceedings involving our Brazilian subsidiary, which has been fined the equivalent of approximately $3 million in the proceedings. Our Brazilian subsidiary is contesting the fine. It is possible that we could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future, particularly with respect to our operation in Brazil that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. • Product liability claims and recalls could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results and brand’s reputation. We are, from time to time, subject to product liability claims. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or purportedly caused by our products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, our products contain contaminants, provide inadequate instructions regarding their use, or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Product liability claims and recalls also could result in negative publicity that could harm our sales and operating results and the reputation of our brands. In addition, if one of our products is found to be defective, we could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although we maintain product liability and product recall insurance coverage, potential product liability claims and recall costs may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. • Failure to effectively utilize or successfully assert intellectual property rights could materially adversely affect our competitiveness. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. We cannot be sure that these intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted. There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license from others intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the United States, the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our failure to perfect or successfully assert intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents • We rely significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy, interruption, loss of data, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and damage the reputation of our brands. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to interact with internal personnel and customers and suppliers, and other persons. These interactions include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, and other processes necessary to manage our business. Our systems could be damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages, and security breaches. Although we have business continuity plans in place to address service interruptions, if our business continuity plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations which may adversely affect our business. In addition, we have recently completed information systems upgrades in the United States and Canada, which affect our ordering, shipping and billing systems in those countries and plan to institute similar upgrades in 2012. If the new system does not function properly, our ability to order supplies, process and deliver customer orders and process and receive payments for products sold in regions in which we conduct the substantial majority of our business could be limited, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Any business interruptions or data security breaches, including cyber security breaches resulting in private data disclosure, could damage the Company’s reputation and could also adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Further, negative postings or comments about us on any social networking web site could damage our reputation. • Changes in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The realization of deferred income tax assets is assessed and a valuation allowance is recorded if it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. If the actual amount of our future taxable income is less than the amount we are currently projecting with respect to specific tax jurisdictions, or if there is a change in the time period within which the deferred tax asset becomes deductible, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. The recording of a valuation allowance would result in an increase in our effective tax rate, and would have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, which would have either a favorable or unfavorable impact on our effective tax rate. • Resolutions of tax disputes may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. We provide for uncertain tax positions with respect to tax positions that do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards mandated by applicable accounting guidance. Changes to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, impact our effective tax rate. When particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. • There can be no guarantee that the Company will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase its stock. Although the Company’s Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program and recently increased the amount of its quarterly cash dividends payable on its Common Stock, any determinations by the 21 Table of Contents Company to continue to repurchase its Common Stock or by the Board of Directors to continue to pay cash dividends on its Common Stock will be based primarily upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, price of its Common Stock in the case of the repurchase program, and Board of Directors’ continuing determination that the repurchase program and the declaration of dividends under the dividend policy are in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs. • We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group. Our success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 