ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risks and uncertainties, as well as others described elsewhere in this Annual Report, could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition: • Unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products. Unfavorable and uncertain economic conditions have adversely affected, and in the future may adversely affect, demand for some of the categories of products the Company sells, resulting in reduced sales volume or market share or a shift in its product mix from higher margin to lower margin products. Factors that can affect demand include competitors’ products, advertising and pricing actions, rates of unemployment, consumer confidence, health care costs, fuel and other energy costs and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, including delays in the timing of tax refunds from the federal government, gasoline and home heating oil pricing, reduced unemployment benefits in periods of high unemployment and tax increases. While the vast majority of the Company’s products generally are consumer staples that should be less vulnerable to decreases in discretionary spending than other products, they may become subject to increasing price competition as recessionary conditions continue. Moreover, some of the Company’s products, such as laundry additives and battery-operated toothbrushes, are more likely to be affected by consumer decisions to control spending. Some of the Company’s customers, including mass merchandisers, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores, wholesale clubs, home stores, and dollar, pet and other specialty stores, have experienced and may experience in the future declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts due to the Company on a timely basis or at all. The Company regularly reviews the financial strength of its key customers and, where appropriate, modifies customer credit limits, which may have an adverse impact on future sales. Because the same economic conditions impact many of the Company’s suppliers, the Company also regularly conducts a similar review of its suppliers to assess both their financial viability and the importance of their products to Company operations. Where appropriate, the Company intends to identify alternate sources of materials and services. To date, the Company has not experienced a material adverse impact from economic conditions affecting its customers or suppliers. However, a protracted economic downturn that adversely affects the Company’s suppliers and customers could adversely affect its sales and results of operations. • The Company faces intense competition in its markets, and the failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company faces intense competition from consumer products companies, both in the U.S. and in international markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other widely-advertised brands within each product category and with private label brands and generic non-branded products of its customers in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower prices. The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers. Consumer products are subject to significant price competition. As a result, the Company may need to reduce the prices for some of its products, or increase prices by an amount that does not cover manufacturing cost increases, to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. Any reduction in prices, or inability to raise prices sufficiently to cover manufacturing cost increases, would harm profit margins. In addition, if the Company’s sales volumes fail to grow sufficiently to offset any reduction in margins, its results of operations would suffer. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on retail customer decisions regarding the brands and product lines they sell and on consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising. If a product gains 15 Table of Contents consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position. If the Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs are not effective or adequate, its sales and volume may be impacted. Many of the Company’s competitors are large companies, including P&G, The Sun Products Corporation, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Ansell Limited, Alere Inc., Pfizer Inc., Bayer AG, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Pharmavite LLC and NBTY, Inc. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than does the Company, and, therefore, have the capacity to outspend the Company on advertising and promotional activities and introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than can the Company. In addition, the Company’s competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by it. Competitive activity may require the Company to increase its spending on advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices, which could lead to reduced profits and adversely affect growth. If the Company loses market share and the markets in which it competes do not grow substantially, its sales levels and operating results will decline. Since the 2012 introduction in the U.S. of unit dose laundry detergent by various manufacturers, including the Company, there has been significant product and price competition in the laundry detergent category, contributing to an overall category decline. During 2012, the category declined 0.6%, and during 2013, the category declined an additional 3.2%. While the Company’s laundry detergent sales have increased, more than offsetting the impact of the total laundry detergent category decline, there is no assurance that the category will not decline further or that the Company will be able to offset any such category decline. Moreover, P&G, the market leader in premium laundry detergent, including unit dose laundry detergent, has recently reconfigured certain of its product offerings and related marketing and pricing strategies and launched various products to compete more directly with the Company’s core ARM & HAMMER and OXICLEAN power brands. In 2014, P&G is launching a lower-priced laundry detergent to compete directly with the Company’s core value laundry detergents, is attempting to leverage its leadership position in unit dose laundry detergent with the introduction of a premium unit dose offering, and has launched a versatile stain remover, all of which are expected to be supported by aggressive trade spending and marketing. These actions, together with expected ongoing weak consumer spending and increased price competition, could negatively impact the Company’s laundry detergent and versatile stain remover businesses. • Loss of any of its principal customers could significantly decrease the Company’s sales and profitability. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of the Company’s net sales. Wal-Mart is the Company’s largest customer, accounting for approximately 24% of net sales in 2013, 24% of net sales in 2012 and 23% of net sales in 2011. The Company’s top three customers accounted for approximately 35% of net sales in 2013, 34% of net sales in 2012 and 33% of net sales in 2011. The Company expects that a significant portion of its net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues. As a result, changes in the strategies of Wal-Mart or any of the Company’s other largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to private label products, could materially harm the Company’s net sales and profitability. In addition, the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders and it rarely enters into long-term contracts with its customers. Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company loses a significant customer or if sales of its products to a significant customer materially decrease, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents • Changes in the policies of the Company’s retailer customers and increasing dependence on key retailer customers in developed markets may adversely affect its business. In recent years, the Company has seen increasing retailer consolidation both in the U.S. and internationally. This trend has resulted in the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailer customers, who may demand lower pricing, special packaging or impose other requirements on the Company. These business demands may relate to inventory practices, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. Some of the Company’s customers, particularly its high-volume retail store customers, have sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms. To the extent the Company provides concessions or better trade terms to those customers, its margins are reduced. Further, if the Company is unable to effectively respond to the demands of its customers, these customers could reduce their purchases of Company products and increase their purchases of products from competitors, which would harm the Company’s sales and profitability. In addition, reductions in inventory by the Company’s customers, including as a result of consolidations in the retail industry, or these customers managing their working capital requirements, could result in reduced orders for Company products and adversely affect its results of operations for the financial periods affected by the reductions. Protracted unfavorable market conditions have caused many of the Company’s customers to more critically analyze the number of brands they sell, and reduce or discontinue certain of the Company’s product lines, particularly those products that were not number one or two in their category. If this continues to occur and the Company is unable to improve distribution for those products at other customers, its results could be adversely affected. In addition, private label products sold by retail trade chains are typically sold at lower prices than branded products. As consumers look for opportunities to decrease discretionary spending, the Company’s customers have discontinued or reduced distribution of some of its products to encourage those consumers to purchase the customers’ less expensive private label products (primarily in the dietary supplements, diagnostic kits and oral analgesics categories). To the extent customers discontinue or reduce distribution of the Company’s products or these products are adversely affected by customers’ actions to increase shelf space for their private label products, the Company will focus its efforts on improving distribution with other customers. However, if the Company’s efforts are not effective, its results could be adversely affected. • A continued shift in the retail market from food and drug stores to club stores, dollar stores and mass merchandisers could cause the Company’s sales to decline. The Company’s performance depends upon the general health of the economy and of the retail environment in particular, and could be significantly harmed by changes affecting retailing and the financial difficulties of the Company’s retailer customers. Consumer products, such as those marketed by the Company, are increasingly being sold by club stores, dollar stores and mass merchandisers. Sales of the Company’s products remain strongest in the mass merchandiser, food and drug channels of trade and are increasing in the club stores and dollar stores channels. Although the Company has taken steps to improve, and has seen improvement in, sales to club stores and dollar stores, if the current trend continues and the Company is not successful in further improving sales to these channels, its financial condition and operating results could suffer. • Market category declines and changes to the Company’s product and geographic mix may impact the achievement of the Company’s sales growth targets, planned pricing and financial results. A significant percentage of the Company’s revenues comes from mature markets that are subject to high levels of competition. During 2013, approximately 80% of the Company’s sales were generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for consumer products are considered mature and commonly characterized by high household penetration, particularly with respect to the Company’s most significant product categories, such as laundry detergents, deodorizers, household cleaning products, toothpastes, dietary supplements, antiperspirants and deodorants. The Company’s ability to achieve unit sales growth in domestic markets will depend on increased 17 Table of Contents use of its products by consumers, its ability to drive growth through product innovation in existing and new product categories, investment in its established brands and enhanced merchandising and its ability to capture market share from its competitors. If the Company is unable to increase market share in existing product lines, develop product improvements, undertake sales, marketing and advertising initiatives that expand its product categories and develop, acquire or successfully launch new products, it may not achieve its sales growth objectives. Even if the Company is successful in increasing sales within its product categories, a continuing or accelerating decline in the overall markets for the Company’s products could have a negative impact on its financial results. • Cost overruns and delays, regulatory requirements, and miscalculations in capacity needs with respect to the Company’s expansion projects could adversely affect its business. The Company initiates expansion projects from time to time. For example, the Company is currently expanding its gummy vitamin production capacity at its York, Pennsylvania manufacturing facility to meet expected future product demand. The new gummy vitamin line is expected to start production in the first quarter of 2015. Projects of this type are subject to risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; difficulties in meeting regulatory requirements or obtaining regulatory approvals; availability of suppliers to certify equipment for existing and enhanced regulations; design and engineering problems; and failure or delay of third party service providers, civil unrest and labor disputes. Significant cost overruns or delays in completing a project could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s return on investment, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the Company miscalculates its anticipated capacity needs, this too could negatively impact its operations, financial condition and results of operations. • The Company’s reliance on a limited number of suppliers, including sole source suppliers for certain products, could materially and adversely affect its operations and financial results. The Company relies on a limited number of suppliers for certain of its commodities and raw materials, including sole source suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary supplies. New suppliers may have to be qualified under governmental, industry and Company standards, which can require additional investment and time. The Company may be unable to qualify any needed new suppliers or maintain supplier arrangements and relationships; it may be unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for its business; or certain of the Company’s key suppliers may become insolvent or experience other financial distress. If any of these events occurs and the Company has failed to identify and qualify an alternative vendor, then it may be unable to meet its contractual obligations and customer expectations, which could damage its reputation and result in lost customers and sales, or the Company may incur higher than expected expenses, either of which could materially and adversely affect its business, operations and results of operations. • Volatility and increases in the price of raw and packaging materials or energy costs could erode the Company’s profit margins, which could harm operating results, and efforts to hedge against raw material price increases may adversely affect the Company’s operating results if raw material prices decline. The principal raw materials and packaging used by the Company include surfactants (cleaning agents), paper products and resin-based molded components. Volatility and increases in the price of raw materials, or increases in the costs of energy, shipping and other necessary services, could significantly affect the Company’s profit margins if it is unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies, such as in manufacturing and distribution. Historically, the Company has attempted to address such price increases through cost reduction programs and price increases of its products, entering into pre-buying 18 Table of Contents or locked-in pricing arrangements with certain suppliers and entering into hedge agreements. There is no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to fully offset any price increases, especially given the competitive environment. In addition, volatility in certain commodity markets could significantly affect the Company’s production cost and, therefore, harm its financial condition and operating results. The Company uses hedge agreements to mitigate the volatility of diesel fuel prices and related fuel surcharges. The hedge agreements are designed to add stability to product costs, enabling the Company to make pricing decisions and lessen the economic impact of abrupt changes in prices over the term of the contract. However, in periods of declining fuel prices, the hedge agreements can have the effect of locking the Company in at above-market prices. • If new products and product line extensions do not gain widespread customer acceptance or are otherwise discontinued, or if they cause sales of existing products to decline, the Company’s financial performance could decline. The Company’s future performance and growth depends on its ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product line extensions. The Company cannot be certain that it will achieve its innovation goals. The successful development and introduction of new products involves substantial research, development, marketing and promotional expenditures, which the Company may be unable to recover if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks. These risks include product development or launch delays, competitor actions, regulatory approval hurdles and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance. In addition, if sales generated by new products result in a concomitant decline in sales of existing products, the Company’s financial performance could be harmed. For example, the Company has been launching more new products into “white space” categories than it has historically. In 2014, the Company is expanding the OXICLEAN brand into three additional categories: premium laundry detergent, dishwashing detergent and bleach alternatives. In addition, the Company is launching new products across almost all of its core businesses including a premium cat litter called ARM & HAMMER CLUMP & SEAL, a new premium toothpaste called ARM & HAMMER TRULY RADIANT, a new vitamin line for the VITAFUSION brand, and new condoms, vibrators and lubricants under the TROJAN brand. While these new products have received strong distribution acceptance from the Company’s retailers to date, and will be supported by increased marketing spending, there is no assurance that the Company’s customers and consumers will purchase these new products. If these new products are not successful in gaining market share, the Company’s financial results could suffer. From time to time, the Company has discontinued certain products and product lines, which resulted in returns from customers, asset write-offs and shutdown costs. The Company may suffer similar adverse consequences in the future to the extent it discontinues products that do not meet expectations or no longer satisfy consumer demand. • If the reputation of one or more of the Company’s leading brands erodes, its financial results could suffer. The Company’s financial success is directly dependent on the reputation and success of its brands, particularly the ARM & HAMMER, OXICLEAN, TROJAN, L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION brands. The effectiveness of these brands could suffer if the Company’s marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers. Further, the Company’s results could be adversely affected if one or more of its leading brands suffers damage to its reputation due to real or perceived quality or safety issues. Additionally, claims made in the Company’s marketing campaigns may become subject to litigation alleging false advertising, which, if successful, could cause the Company to alter its marketing plans and may 19 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect sales or result in the imposition of significant damages against the Company, or other customer or consumer dissatisfaction, especially if such dissatisfaction were to be broadly disseminated, including through the use of social media. • Product liability claims and withdrawals or recalls could adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results and brand’s reputation. From time to time, the Company is subject to product liability claims. The Company may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or purportedly caused by its products, including losses or injuries caused by raw materials or other components provided by third party suppliers that are included in the Company’s products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the Company’s products contain contaminants, are improperly labeled, or provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other substances. Whether or not successful, product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results and the reputation of its brands. In addition, if one of the Company’s products is found to be defective or non-compliant with applicable rules or regulations, it could be required to withdraw or recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability and product recall insurance coverage (that also covers product withdrawals), potential product liability claims and withdrawal and recall costs may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. • Environmental matters create potential liability risks. The Company must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances. A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations. The Company currently is subject to environmental regulatory proceedings involving its Brazilian subsidiary, which has been fined the equivalent of approximately $2.1 million (at current exchange rates) in the proceedings. The Brazilian subsidiary is contesting the fine. In addition, the Company may be required to remove certain landfills in Brazil in connection with these proceedings, the cost of which is estimated to be in the range of $30 million to $50 million. It is possible that the Company could become subject to additional environmental liabilities in the future, particularly with respect to its operations in Brazil, that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition. • Current and future laws and regulations in the countries in which the Company and its suppliers operate could expose the Company to increased costs and other adverse consequences. The manufacturing, processing, formulation (including stability), packaging, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of the Company’s products are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the FDA, the FCDA, the FTC, the United States Department of Agriculture, the EPA and the CPSC. In addition, the Company’s and its suppliers’ operations are subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the National Labor Relations Board. The Company’s activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which its products are sold. In particular, the FDA regulates the formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of condoms, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits, battery operated toothbrushes, over-the-counter pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements, including vitamins and minerals. The FDA also exercises oversight over cosmetic products such as depilatories. In addition, under a memorandum of understanding between the 20 Table of Contents FDA and the FTC, the FTC has jurisdiction with regard to the promotion and advertising of these products, and the FTC regulates the promotion and advertising of the Company’s other products as well. As part of its regulatory authority, the FDA may periodically conduct inspections of the physical facilities, machinery, processes and procedures that the Company and its suppliers use to manufacture regulated products and may identify compliance issues that would require the Company and its suppliers to make certain changes in its manufacturing facilities and processes. The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to regulatory action against the products made in that facility, including seizure, injunction or recall, as well as to possible action against the owner of the facility/manufacturer. The Company may be required to make additional expenditures to address these issues or possibly stop selling certain products until the compliance issue has been remediated. As a result, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Likewise, any future determination by the FDA or a similar foreign agency, or by the Company in reviewing its compliance with applicable rules and regulations, that the Company’s products or quality systems do not comply with applicable regulations could result in future compliance activities, including product withdrawals or recalls, import detentions, injunctions preventing the shipment of products, or other enforcement actions. For example, the FDA may determine that a particular claim that the Company uses to support the marketing of a product is not substantiated, may not accept the evidence of safety for a new product that the Company may wish to market, may challenge the safety or effectiveness of existing products based on, among other things, changes in formulations, inadequate stability or “shelf-life,” consumer complaints, or improper labeling, and may determine that the Company’s dietary supplement business manufacturing, packaging, labeling and holding operations do not comply with cGMPs. Similarly, the Company may identify these or other issues in internal compliance reviews of its operations and the operations and products of vendors and acquired companies. These other issues may include the identification of contaminants or non-compliant levels of particular ingredients. Any of the foregoing could subject the Company to adverse publicity, force it to incur unanticipated costs and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Commission has promulgated final rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as “conflict minerals”, in products manufactured by public companies. Certain of the Company’s products, including its diagnostic test kits and SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes, use these minerals sourced through third parties. The new rules require the Company to conduct due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the DRC) or an adjoining country and whether such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC. The Company’s first conflict minerals report required by the new rules is due by May 31, 2014 and annually thereafter. The Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of minerals used in its products. In addition, the implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of such minerals used in the Company’s products. Also, the Company may face disqualification as a supplier for customers and reputational challenges, or may need to discontinue supply from its suppliers, if its due diligence procedures do not enable it to verify the origins for the minerals used in its products or determine that the minerals are conflict free. From time to time, Congress, the FDA, the FTC, the Commission or other federal, state, local or foreign legislative and regulatory authorities may impose additional laws or regulations that apply to the Company, repeal laws or regulations that the Company considers favorable, or impose more stringent interpretations of current laws or regulations. The Company is not able to predict the nature of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect additional governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on its business in the future. Such developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, expanded adverse event reporting or other new requirements. Any such developments could increase the Company’s costs significantly and could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents • The Company’s condom product line could suffer if the spermicide N-9 is proved or perceived to be harmful. The Company’s distribution of condoms under the TROJAN brand and other trademarks is regulated by the FDA. Certain of the Company’s condoms, and similar condoms sold by its competitors, contain the spermicide nonoxynol-9 (“N-9”). Some interested groups have issued reports that N-9 should not be used rectally or for multiple daily acts of vaginal intercourse. In late 2008, the FDA issued final labeling guidance for latex condoms but excluded N-9 lubricated condoms from the guidance. While the Company awaits further FDA guidance on N-9 lubricated condoms, it believes that its present labeling for condoms with N-9 is compliant with the overall objectives of the FDA’s guidance, and that condoms with N-9 will remain a viable contraceptive choice for those couples who wish to use them. However, the Company cannot predict the nature of the labeling that ultimately will be required by the FDA. If the FDA or a state government eventually promulgates rules that prohibit or restrict the use of N-9 in condoms (such as new labeling requirements), the Company could incur costs from obsolete products, packaging or raw materials, and sales of condoms could decline, which, in turn, could decrease the Company’s earnings. • The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations that could adversely affect its results of operations. The Company’s international operations subject it to risks customarily associated with foreign operations, including: • currency fluctuations; • import and export license and taxation requirements and restrictions; • trade restrictions, including local investment or exchange control regulations; • changes in tariffs and taxes, the effect of foreign income taxes, value-added taxes and withholding taxes, including the inability to recover amounts owed to the Company by foreign governments, and the determination of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “I.R.S.”) regarding the applicability of certain regulations, including the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, to the Company’s international transactions; • the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls; • obstacles to repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • political or economic instability, and civil unrest; • compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, including without limitations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United Kingdom Bribery Act; • difficulty in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • regulatory requirements for certain products; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. These risks could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to commercialize its products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial position. In all foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, it is subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. In addition, the Company is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Outside of the U.S., sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies, including the Euro, British Pound, Brazilian Real, Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Chinese Yuan and Australian Dollar. A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated 22 Table of Contents relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease operating profits and cash flow. The Company, from time to time, enters into forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations related to anticipated but not yet committed intercompany sales or purchases denominated in the U.S. Dollar, Canadian Dollar, British Pound and Euro. • The Company may not be able to continue to identify and complete strategic acquisitions and effectively integrate acquired companies to achieve desired financial benefits. The Company seeks to acquire or invest in businesses that offer products, services or technologies that are complementary. The Company has made eight acquisitions in the past ten years, including the following brands: SPINBRUSH battery-powered toothbrushes; OXICLEAN, KABOOM and ORANGE GLO cleaning products; ORAJEL oral analgesics; SIMPLY SALINE nasal moisturizers; TOOTH TUNES musical toothbrushes; FELINE PINE natural cat litter; BATISTE dry shampoo and L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION dietary supplements. The Company may make additional acquisitions or substantial investments in complementary businesses or products in the future. However, the Company may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisitions at attractive valuations, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions. In addition, all acquisitions and investments entail various risks, including the difficulty of entering new markets or product categories, the challenges of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or products, the potential disruption of the Company’s ongoing business and the ongoing business of the acquired company, the need to review and, if necessary, upgrade processes of the acquired company to conform to the Company’s own processes and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, and, generally, the Company’s potential inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment. Any of these risks may divert management and other resources, require the Company to incur unanticipated costs or delay the anticipated positive impact on the Company’s business and results of the acquisition. The risks associated with assimilation are increased to the extent the Company acquires businesses that have stand-alone operations that cannot easily be integrated or operations or sources of supply outside of the U.S. and Canada, for which products are manufactured locally by third parties. These factors could harm the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Acquired companies or operations or newly-created ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. In addition, future acquisitions or investments could result in substantial cash expenditures, the potentially dilutive issuances of new equity by the Company or the incurrence of additional debt or contingent liabilities, all of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any potential acquisitions or investments, whether or not ultimately completed, could divert the attention of management and resources from other matters that are critical to the Company’s operations. • The Company relies significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy, interruption, loss of data, integration failure or security failure of that technology could harm the Company’s ability to effectively operate its business and damage the reputation of its brands. The Company relies extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to conduct its business. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to internal communications and communications with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, billing customers and receiving and applying payment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other stakeholder information and personal data, and other processes necessary to manage the Company’s business. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the Company’s information technology 23 Table of Contents systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the Company’s data. The Company’s information technology systems, networks or service providers could be damaged or cease to function properly, or the Company could suffer a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches. Although the Company has business continuity plans in place to address service interruptions, if these business continuity plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage or conduct its operations which may adversely affect its business. Any business interruptions or data security breaches, including cyber security breaches resulting in private data disclosure, could result in lawsuits or regulatory proceedings, damage the Company’s reputation or adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and cash flows. Further, negative postings or comments about the Company on any social networking website could damage its reputation, as could the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through social media. • The Company’s substantial indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and financial results and prevent it from fulfilling its obligations, and the Company may incur substantially more debt in the future, which could exacerbate these risks. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had approximately $803.4 million of total consolidated indebtedness. This amount of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its cash obligations; • limiting the Company’s ability to fund potential acquisitions; • requiring the Company to dedicate a portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limiting the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, general adverse economic conditions or changes in its business and the industry in which it operates; and • placing the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt. In addition, the Company may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, to repurchase shares or to fund other activities for general business purposes. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. Any decision regarding future borrowings will be based on the facts and circumstances existing at the time, including the Company’s credit rating. • The Company may not have sufficient cash flow to service its indebtedness or fund capital expenditures. The Company’s ability to repay and refinance its indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures depends primarily on its cash flow. Cash flow is often subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond the Company’s control, and such factors may limit its ability to repay indebtedness and fund capital expenditures. A failure to service its indebtedness or obtain additional financing as needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. • There can be no guarantee that the Company will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase the Common Stock at sustained levels or at all. Although the Board has recently authorized new share repurchase programs and recently increased the amount of the quarterly cash dividends payable on the Common Stock, any Board determinations to continue to 24 Table of Contents repurchase the Common Stock or to continue to pay cash dividends on the Common Stock, in each case at levels consistent with recent practice or at all, will be based primarily upon the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, price of the Common Stock in the case of the repurchase programs, and the Board’s continuing determination that the repurchase programs and the declaration of dividends under the dividend policy are in the best interests of Company stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the repurchase and dividend programs. In the event the Company does not declare a quarterly dividend, or discontinues its share repurchases, its stock price could be adversely affected. • Recent volatility in the financial markets may negatively impact the Company’s ability to access the credit markets. In recent years, the banking system and financial markets have experienced severe disruption, including, among other things, bank failures and consolidations, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades, declines in asset valuations and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These conditions present the following risks to the Company, among others: • The Company is dependent on the continued viability of the financial institutions that participate in the syndicate that is generally obligated to fund the Company’s $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility dated November 18, 2010 (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”). In addition, the Credit Agreement includes a “commitment increase” feature that enables the Company to increase the amount of its borrowing under the Credit Agreement, subject to lending commitments and certain conditions. Any disruption in the credit markets could limit the availability of credit or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit, which could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. • The Company’s short- and long-term credit ratings affect its borrowing costs and access to financing. A downgrade in the Company’s credit ratings would increase its borrowing costs and could affect its ability to issue commercial paper. Disruptions in the commercial paper market or other effects of volatile economic conditions on the credit market also could raise the Company’s borrowing costs for both short- and long-term debt offerings. Either scenario could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and capital resources. Although the Company believes that its operating cash flows, together with its access to the credit markets, provides it with significant discretionary funding capacity, the inability of one or more institutions to fulfill funding obligations under the Credit Agreement could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s liquidity and operations. • Changes in tax laws and regulations or in the Company’s operations may impact the Company’s effective tax rate and may adversely affect its earnings and cash flow. The Company’s future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations or their interpretation, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities. The realization of deferred income tax assets is assessed and a valuation allowance is recorded if it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. If the actual amount of the Company’s future taxable income is less than the amount it is currently projecting with respect to specific tax jurisdictions, or if there is a change in the time period within which the deferred tax asset becomes deductible, the Company could be required to record a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. The recording of a valuation allowance would result in an increase in the Company’s effective tax rate, and would have an adverse effect on its operating results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may change the Company’s deferred tax assets or liability balances, which would have either a favorable or unfavorable impact on its effective tax rate. 25 Table of Contents • Resolutions of tax disputes may adversely affect the Company’s earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in evaluating its tax positions. The Company provides for uncertain tax positions with respect to tax positions that do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards mandated by applicable accounting guidance. Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or changes to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact the Company’s effective tax rate and its financial results. The Company is regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although the Company believes its tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in its historical income tax provisions and accruals. In addition, when particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. • Failure to effectively utilize or successfully assert intellectual property rights, and the loss or expiration of such rights, could materially adversely affect the Company’s competitiveness. Infringement by the Company of third-party intellectual property rights could result in costly litigation and/or the modification or discontinuance of Company products. The market for the Company’s products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with its trademarks and brand names, including ARM & HAMMER, TROJAN, OXICLEAN, L’IL CRITTERS and VITAFUSION. The Company owns the material trademarks and brand names used in connection with the marketing and distribution of its major products both in the U.S. and in other countries. In addition, the Company holds several valuable patents on its products, which the Company believes serve as an effective barrier to entry for new competitors. Accordingly, the Company relies on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect its intellectual property rights. Although most of the Company’s material intellectual property is registered in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries in which it operates, it cannot be sure that its intellectual property rights will be effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted. There is a risk that the Company will not be able to obtain and perfect its own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license from others intellectual property rights necessary to support new product introductions. The Company cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and the Company could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions relating to such rights. In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the U.S., the laws of some of the other countries in which the Company’s products are or may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If other parties infringe the Company’s intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of the Company’s brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with the Company’s brands and harm its sales. The Company’s failure to perfect or successfully assert intellectual property rights could make it less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Also, the Company’s patents are granted for a term of 20 years from the date the patent application is filed. While the Company considers no single patent to be material to the business as a whole, it does recognize that the loss of key patents will allow for increased competition, specifically to its SPINBRUSH battery-powered toothbrush, FIRST RESPONSE pregnancy test kit and ANSWER pregnancy test kit brands. In addition, if the Company’s products are found to infringe intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against the Company claiming substantial damages for past infringement and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages from past infringement, the Company could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products, potentially adding significant costs. The Company might not prevail in any action brought against it or it may be unsuccessful in securing any license for continued use and therefore have to discontinue the marketing and sale of a product. This could make the Company less competitive and could have a material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents • Impairment of the Company’s goodwill and other intangible assets may result in a reduction in net income. The Company has a material amount of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived assets, which are periodically evaluated for impairment in accordance with current accounting standards. Declines in the Company’s profitability and/or estimated cash flows related to specific intangible assets, as well as potential changes in market valuations for similar assets and market discount rates, may result in an impairment charge, which could reduce the Company’s net income and otherwise have an adverse impact on operating results. • The Company’s operations and the operations of its third party manufacturers, suppliers and customers may be subject to disruption from events beyond its or their control. The Company’s operations, as well as the operations of its third party manufacturers, suppliers and customers, may be subject to disruption from a variety of causes, including work stoppages, material shortages, financial difficulties, acts of war, terrorism, pandemics, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. • The Company may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. The Company’s future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of its executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other key personnel left as a group or at the same time. The Company’s success also depends, in part, on its continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company can retain its key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 