risk factors include, without limitation, the following items: · the cyclical nature of both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · ongoing weakness in the manufactured housing market; · continued acceptance of Fleetwood’s products; · the potential impact on demand for Fleetwood’s products as a result of declining consumer confidence; · the effect of global tensions on consumer confidence; · expenses and uncertainties associated with the manufacturing and introduction of new products; · the future availability of manufactured housing retail financing as well as housing and RV wholesale financing; · exposure to interest rate and market changes affecting certain assets and liabilities; · availability and pricing of raw materials; · changes in retail inventory levels in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · competitive pricing pressures; · the ability to attract and retain quality dealers, executive officers and other personnel; · the Company’s ability to successfully meet its ongoing obligations with respect to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and · the Company’s ability to obtain financing needed in order to execute its business strategies. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, and actual results, events or performance may differ materially. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Fleetwood undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may arise from changing circumstances or unanticipated events. 1 Item 1. Business General Fleetwood is one of the nation’s leaders in producing both recreational vehicles and manufactured housing. In fiscal 2005, we sold 50,746 recreational vehicles. In calendar 2004, we held a 15.3 percent share of the overall recreational vehicle market, consisting of a 17.9 percent share of the motor home market and a 14.4% share of the towable market. The towable market is represented by an 11.7 percent share of the travel trailer market and a 38.2 percent share of the folding trailer market. For calendar year 2004, our folding trailer division was the leader in market share in that segment, while our motor home business was in second position and the travel trailer division in third position. For fiscal 2005, we shipped 23,962 manufactured homes and were the second largest producer of HUD-Code homes in the United States in terms of units sold. HUD-Code homes are homes manufactured in accordance with regulations published by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. In calendar 2004, the manufactured housing industry had a 7.5 percent share of the single-family housing starts. We had a 17.6 percent share of the manufactured housing wholesale market. We operate four supply companies that provide components for the recreational vehicle and housing operations, while also generating outside sales. Our business began in 1950 producing travel trailers and quickly evolved to what are now termed manufactured homes. We re-entered the recreational vehicle business with the acquisition of a travel trailer operation in 1964. Our manufacturing activities are conducted in 16 states within the U.S., and to a much lesser extent in Canada. We distribute our manufactured products primarily through a network of independent dealers throughout the United States and Canada. In fiscal 1999, we entered the manufactured housing retail business through a combination of key acquisitions and internal development of new retail sales centers. We later established a financial services subsidiary to provide finance and insurance products to the retail operation. In March 2005, we announced that the retail and finance businesses were to be sold so we could focus on our core businesses, RV and housing manufacturing. The retail and finance businesses have been presented as discontinued operations throughout this annual report on Form 10-K. This annual report, and each of our other periodic and current reports, including any amendments, are available, free of charge, on our website, www.fleetwood.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. The following table sets forth revenues by business segment and the relative contribution of these revenues to total revenues for the past three fiscal years. Information with respect to operating income (loss) and identifiable assets by industry segment is shown in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Fiscal years ended April 2005 % 2004 % 2003 % (Amounts in thousands) Recreational vehicles: Motor homes $ 1,097,091 46 % $ 1,104,624 47 % $ 918,742 44 % Towables 562,791 24 674,609 28 563,853 27 1,659,882 70 1,779,233 75 1,482,595 71 Housing Group 785,547 33 657,388 28 667,087 32 Supply Group 57,020 2 41,120 2 37,178 2 Intercompany sales (127,737 ) (5 ) (117,135 ) (5 ) (115,903 ) (5 ) $ 2,374,712 100 % $ 2,360,606 100 % $ 2,070,957 100 % 2 Recreational Vehicles Industry Overview Recreational vehicles include motor homes, travel trailers, folding trailers and slide-in truck campers. Recreational vehicles are either driven or towed and are primarily used for vacations, camping trips and other leisure activities. A motor home is a motorized mobile unit that can be used as a temporary dwelling during vacation and camping trips as well as to support a variety of lifestyle activities, including outdoor recreation such as hunting and fishing, both on and off road racing and tailgating at assorted local and national events. In many cases a motor home is utilized for extended travel and is often considered a second home. It consists of a truck or bus chassis with a living unit built onto it. The driver’s compartment (on Class A models) and living area are designed and produced by the recreational vehicle manufacturer. Motor homes are classified by the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA) into three categories: Class A, Class B and Class C. Class A motor homes are constructed directly on medium-duty truck chassis that include the engine and drive train components. They are fully self-contained, typically including a driver area and kitchen, dining, bathroom and sleeping accommodations for four to eight people, and have such optional features as air conditioning, an auxiliary power generator and home electronics such as a stereo, television and DVD player. Approximately 46 percent of Class A units are diesel-powered. Class B models, which comprise a small segment of the market, are panel-type trucks to which kitchen, sleeping and toilet facilities are added. Many of these models also have a top extension added to them for more headroom. Class C models are classified as mini motor homes, which are built on a cut-away van-type chassis onto which the manufacturer constructs a living area with access to the driver’s compartment. Class C models have basically the same features and options as Class A products, but the chassis manufacturer’s original dashboard and front cab section are retained. RVIA reported factory shipments of 46,300 Class A motor homes and 23,000 Class C motor homes for calendar 2004. These figures compare with shipments of 41,500 Class A motor homes and 18,300 Class C motor homes in calendar 2003. There are numerous competitors in this industry. However, the five largest manufacturers, including Fleetwood, represented approximately 69 percent of the combined Class A and Class C motor home retail market in calendar 2004. There are two major classes of towable recreational vehicles: travel trailers and folding trailers. Travel trailers are designed to be towed by pickup trucks, vans or other tow vehicles, and are similar to motor homes in use and features. Typically, travel trailers include sleeping, kitchen, dining and bathroom facilities and are self-contained units with their own lighting, heating, refrigeration, fresh water storage tanks and sewage holding tanks so that they can be used for short periods without being attached to utilities. RVIA identifies travel trailers as being either conventional or fifth-wheel trailers. Fifth-wheel trailers extend over the bed of their tow vehicles and are hitched to the bed of the truck. For calendar 2004, RVIA reported factory shipments of 163,600 conventional trailers and 91,000 fifth-wheel trailers, compared with shipments of 139,800 and 74,600, respectively, for calendar 2003. The five largest manufacturers in calendar 2004, including Fleetwood, represented approximately 70 percent of the total travel trailer retail market. Folding trailers are smaller and lighter than their travel trailer counterparts and are consequently less expensive and easier to tow. Folding trailers typically include sleeping and eating facilities, fresh water storage and either a built-in icebox or a refrigerator. RVIA reported shipments of 34,100 folding trailers in calendar 2004, in contrast to 35,700 shipments in calendar 2003. Of all of the markets for recreational vehicles, the folding trailer market is the most concentrated, with the five largest manufacturers, including Fleetwood, holding 89 percent of the retail market in calendar 2004. Sales of recreational vehicles tend to be a leading economic indicator and, along with the stock market, recreational vehicle shipment growth rebounded post September 11, 2001, stimulated by low interest rates and a heightened awareness by consumers of the benefits of the RV lifestyle. Based on recent 3 RVIA forecasts, recreational vehicle shipments are expected to decrease about 4 percent during calendar 2005 from the quarter-century peak set in calendar 2004 of 370,000 units. We believe that a decline in consumer confidence resulting from international hostilities, high gas prices and an uncertain stock market could put significant downward pressure on the current calendar year industry forecast. Recreational vehicles typically are a discretionary purchase for consumers, and sales are therefore affected principally by general economic conditions and consumer confidence, and to a lesser extent by the price of fuel. Retail financing conditions have historically been less of a factor affecting the recreational vehicle industry than the manufactured housing business. Purchasers of recreational vehicles generally have proven to have an overall greater ability to obtain necessary credit than customers of the manufactured housing industry. Our Recreational Vehicle Business We have been one of the nation’s leaders in producing recreational vehicles since 1973 and distribute our products through a network of approximately 1,300 independent retailers in 49 states and Canada. In calendar 2004, approximately 83 percent of our recreational vehicles were shipped to retailers in the 25 states with the highest retail sales, including California, Texas, Florida, Michigan and Ohio. We were the market share leader in terms of units sold in three of the top 25 recreational vehicle states. Our retail market share and industry unit sales for each of the three segments in which we participated for the last three calendar years are as follows: Calendar Year 2004 2003 2002 Industry Retails Fleetwood Share Industry Retails Fleetwood Share Industry Retails Fleetwood Share Motor homes Class A 41,482 20.9 % 39,489 21.2 % 36,880 20.8 % Class C 19,656 11.7 17,016 9.9 15,532 10.1 Total motor homes 61,138 17.9 56,505 17.8 52,412 17.7 Travel trailers Conventional 144,917 14.2 129,882 14.8 117,515 16.5 Fifth-wheel 80,141 7.0 68,904 8.7 60,692 7.4 Total travel trailers 225,058 11.7 198,786 12.7 178,207 13.4 Folding trailers 28,696 38.2 30,920 41.6 36,064 42.7 Source: Statistical Surveys, Inc. Fleetwood’s overall motor home market share has consistently increased over the last three calendar years. This has been driven mainly by new, innovative Class A diesel products and high-line Class A gas products partially offset by market share erosion in entry and mid-level Class A gas products. Additionally, the Company has renewed its focus on the Class C market as evidenced by the market share growth during calendar 2004. Our continued focus on supplying the marketplace with innovative products with the appropriate value proposition has resulted in our market share improvements. Such innovations in the last twelve months include the introduction of an 84 inch ceiling in several additional product lines and the introduction of a full-wall slide motor home. Our Class C market share has improved significantly from 2003 to 2004, primarily due to refocusing efforts to expand Class C distribution through our existing dealers and commercial rental customers. In addition, we have recently added capacity for East Coast production of Class C products in order to increase our market share in that region. Fleetwood is represented in motor homes by the Jamboree, Tioga, Terra, Fiesta, Flair, Storm, Bounder, Southwind, Pace Arrow, Bounder Diesel, Expedition, Discovery, Providence, Excursion, Revolution, American Tradition, American Eagle and American Heritage brands. Our Class A motor homes range in length from 26 to 45 feet and have an average retail price of approximately $168,000. Class C units range in length from 4 22 to 31 feet and have an average retail price of approximately $74,000. For calendar 2004, four of the industry’s ten top-selling Class A motor homes were manufactured by Fleetwood, as well as two of the ten top-selling Class C motor homes. Over the past three calendar years, Fleetwood’s travel trailer market share has declined from 13.4 percent to 11.7 percent due to increased competition in the travel trailer industry, our lack of participation in a few growing market segments, including the luxury and hybrid segments, and declining volume in our core Prowler, Terry, and Wilderness products due to the lack of acceptance by the customer of the products’ value proposition. In early fiscal 2004, we entered the sports utility segment with our Gearbox activity support vehicle, as well as, in fiscal 2005, introduced several new, innovative floorplans in the hybrid and ultralight product categories. This summer we will be introducing completely redesigned core products that have enhanced features and benefits at a more competitive price. We believe that with these new products, combined with more under development, our market share position should improve. We manufacture a variety of travel trailers under the Pioneer, Mallard, Wilderness, Prowler, Terry, Gearbox, Pegasus, Orbit, Pride, and Triumph nameplates. Our travel trailers are generally 8 feet wide, vary in length from 18 to 39 feet (including trailer hitch) and have an average retail price of approximately $24,000. For calendar 2004, two of the industry’s ten top-selling travel trailers were manufactured by us. We are the largest manufacturer of folding trailers, which we sell under the Fleetwood brand name. Our folding trailers range in length from 17 to 27 feet when deployed, and have an average retail price of approximately $9,140. For calendar 2004, three of the industry’s ten top-selling folding trailer brands were manufactured by us. Manufactured Housing Industry Overview A manufactured home is a single-family house that is constructed in accordance with HUD construction and safety standards in a factory environment rather than at the home site. There are two basic categories of manufactured housing: single-section and multi-section. The manufactured housing industry grew significantly from 1991 to 1998, but has retrenched since then. According to the Manufactured Housing Institute (MHI), domestic shipments increased from 170,713 homes in calendar 1991 to 372,843 homes in calendar 1998, before declining to 130,802 in calendar 2004. In addition, the manufactured housing industry’s share of new single-family housing starts increased significantly, from about 17 percent in calendar 1991 to 24 percent in calendar 1997, before declining to 7.5 percent in calendar 2004. We believe that the growth during the 1990s resulted from the increased availability of financing and also in large part from increasing consumer acceptance of manufactured housing, which were driven by the following: · improved product quality and design, and enhanced features; · a significant difference in the average price per square foot between site-built housing and manufactured housing; · favorable demographic and regional economic trends; · increased attractiveness of financing terms available to manufactured housing dealers and consumers in 1991 through 1998; and · liberal credit underwriting due to competition among retail lenders for more volume. Today’s manufactured homes offer customers quality similar to many site-built homes at a more affordable price. Manufactured homes are constructed in a factory environment, utilizing assembly line techniques, which allows for volume purchases of materials and components and more efficient use of labor. The quality of manufactured homes has increased significantly over the past 20 years, as producers 5 generally build with the same materials as site-built homes. In addition, many features associated with site-built homes are included in manufactured homes, such as central heating, name brand appliances, carpeting, cabinets, walk-in closets, vaulted ceilings, wall coverings and porches. Also, optional features include such amenities as fireplaces, wet bars and spa tubs, as well as retailer-installed options such as central air conditioning, garages and furniture packages. As acceptance of manufactured housing has increased among higher-income buyers and financing for single-section homes has become more scarce, demand has shifted toward larger, multi-section homes, which accounted for 74 percent of industry shipments in calendar 2004, up from 47 percent in calendar 1991. This contributed to an overall increase in total retail sales from approximately $4.7 billion in calendar 1991 to more than $7.2 billion in calendar 2004. More than half of the manufactured homes produced in the United States are placed on individually owned lots. The balance are located on leased sites in manufactured housing communities. Due to zoning restrictions, most manufactured housing is sold in rural regions and towns outside of major urban areas. The manufactured housing industry is cyclical, and is affected by general economic conditions and consumer confidence. For the last four years, the industry has been burdened by excess manufacturing and retailing capacity, high dealer inventories, competition from repossessed units being resold at greatly distressed prices and a slowing of retail sales. This imbalance between capacity and inventories on one hand and retail demand on the other has largely been caused by the reversal of loose credit practices, which artificially stimulated demand during the late 1990s until replaced by the current restrictive financing conditions. Prior rapid overexpansion of the retail distribution network and dealers’ inflated expectations of future business also contributed to the imbalance. With respect to the retail financing of manufactured housing, interest rates are generally higher and the terms of loans shorter than for site-built homes. In addition, some lenders have stopped extending loans to finance the purchase of manufactured homes, including four national lenders that have exited the business since the last half of fiscal 2002. This has had the effect of making financing for manufactured homes even more expensive and more difficult to obtain relative to financing for site-built homes, which in turn has enjoyed a period of sustained low interest rates and generous credit requirements. Retail financing was a significant factor in the expansion of the industry, particularly toward the latter part of the 1990’s growth cycle, when competitive retail lenders employed relatively liberal underwriting standards to capture more business. Although a major catalyst in fueling higher sales volume through 1998, the lower standards have given rise to an abnormally high rate of defaults and repossessions. In turn, retail lenders have responded by sharply curtailing the availability of financing to our retail customers and elevating underwriting standards to overly restrictive levels. At the same time, manufacturers have found themselves competing for the sale of new homes with resellers of these repossessed homes. Due to the difficult environment for chattel financing nationwide, the industry has been trending toward more “land and home” or mortgage-type financing. Chattel financing is personal property financing secured only by the home and not by the underlying land on which the home is sited. Industry shipments in calendar years 2002 and 2003 were negatively impacted by legislation passed in Texas, a state which accounted for 11 percent of industry shipments in calendar year 2001, that required mortgage-type or “land and home” financing instead of chattel financing, which had been the industry norm, especially for the purchase of single-section homes. The chattel financing process is simpler for customers, well understood by dealers, and faster to process than mortgage-type lending. As a result, industry shipments in Texas fell 28 percent in 2002 and 30 percent in 2003, compared to a drop in shipments for the industry nationwide of 13 percent and 22 percent, respectively. New legislation was passed in Texas in 2003 that substantially eased the negative impact on chattel financing, although the market has remained depressed and the closures of plants and dealers seem to have precluded a quick recovery. 6 Another industry development affecting wholesale sales volume was the announcement in March 2002 by Conseco Finance Servicing Corp. (Conseco), the largest wholesale floorplan lender, that it would stop approving and funding new floorplan requests. Then another large wholesale lender, Deutsche Financial Services (Deutsche), announced in October 2002 it was exiting the business. Independent retailers generally finance their inventory purchases with wholesale floorplan financing provided by lending institutions. Despite some disruption to the industry, generally there has been sufficient wholesale floorplan financing available through other lenders to fill the vacuum created by the Conseco and Deutsche departures. More recently, the manufactured housing finance groups of two other national lenders, Transamerica and Bombardier, have been acquired by General Electric Corp., although this has not yet had an impact on lending volumes. Industry manufacturing and retail capacity have been reduced significantly in response to the financing environment and the related inventory imbalance. More than half of the retail lending capacity available in 2000 has exited the business including, most recently, Chase Manhattan Mortgage Finance (Chase), which announced its decision to exit the industry in May 2004. Although a number of significant lenders have entered the market since late 2003, the volume of financing is still insufficient and has not yet translated into higher shipments. Ultimately, the reasonable availability of retail financing will be the key to an industry recovery. MHI projects that calendar 2005 will, however, show a 6 percent improvement over 2004 shipments. Our Manufactured Housing Business We are the second largest producer of HUD-Code manufactured housing in the United States in terms of units shipped by us to dealers, and we distribute our products through a network of approximately 1,320 dealers in 46 states. At the end of fiscal 2005, we operated 135 retail locations under the name Fleetwood Retail Corp., with the balance owned and operated by independent dealers. In calendar 2004, approximately 82 percent of our manufactured homes were shipped to dealers in the 20 states with the highest shipments to dealers, including Florida, Texas, California, North Carolina and Tennessee. We are a leading producer of both single-section and multi-section manufactured homes, and our share of the manufactured housing market, based upon shipments to dealers, was 17.6 percent in calendar 2004. Calendar Year Shipments 2004 2003 2002 Shipments % Shipments % Shipments % Industry shipments Single-section 33,985 26 % 26,238 20 % 37,155 22 % Multi-section 96,817 74 104,699 80 131,336 78 Total 130,802 100 % 130,937 100 % 168,491 100 % Fleetwood shipments Single-section 7,717 33 % 3,393 17 % 4,901 20 % Multi-section 15,327 67 16,260 83 20,131 80 Total 23,044 100 % 19,653 100 % 25,032 100 % Fleetwood share of shipments Single-section 22.7 % 12.9 % 13.2 % Multi-section 15.8 15.5 15.3 Total 17.6 % 15.0 % 14.9 % Source: Manufactured Housing Institute We held a 22.7 percent share of the single-section manufactured housing market in calendar 2004, as measured by shipments to dealers. Our single-section homes generally range in size from 530 square feet to 1,290 square feet. The average single-section home retailed for approximately $27,700 (excluding land 7 costs) and represented approximately 33 percent of our manufactured housing unit shipments in calendar 2004. Our single-section homes are designed for the affordable housing market, which includes first-time, retiree and value-oriented buyers. We had a disproportionately high share of the increase in single-section sales in calendar 2004 because of our relationships with government agencies on emergency relief projects and manufactured housing community operators. We held a 15.8 percent share of the multi-section manufactured housing market in calendar 2004, as measured by shipments to dealers. Our multi-section homes, which generally range in size from 750 square feet to 3,420 square feet, sold for an average retail price of approximately $52,000 (excluding land costs) and represented approximately 67 percent of our manufactured housing unit shipments in calendar 2004. Supply Operations and Other Businesses During fiscal 2005, our supply manufacturing operations included two fiberglass and manufacturing companies producing various composite plastic components and a lumber re-manufacturing operation. The lumber operation was sold in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. These businesses provide a reliable source of quality components for our principal manufacturing businesses, while also generating outside sales. In fiscal 2005, approximately 36 percent of the product volume of these manufacturing operations was used internally, and the remaining 64 percent was sold to third parties. The supply operations also include a lumber brokerage operation and a component import distribution business, each of which provides our manufactured housing and recreational vehicle businesses with reliable sources of quality raw materials and components. Discontinued Operations Retail Housing and Financial Services The manufactured housing retail industry generated over $7.1 billion in sales in calendar 2004 and is highly fragmented, with approximately 8,000 retailers. Most manufactured housing dealers are independently owned by private companies operating a single sales center. Until 1997, Fleetwood and most other manufacturers, with the exception of a few vertically integrated entities, marketed their manufactured homes exclusively through independent dealers. At that time, however, certain manufactured housing producers began to acquire dealers with the objective of exercising greater control over retail distribution and upgrading marketing and merchandising practices, including brand name development. Additionally, some financial consolidators and residential developers entered the manufactured housing business by acquiring dealers. In the latter part of calendar 1997 and during the first half of calendar 1998, two competing manufacturers acquired several of our important dealers, which collectively accounted for about 25 percent of our distribution network in terms of volume. In order to protect our distribution channels and to take advantage of business opportunities in the manufactured housing retail industry, in 1998 we acquired HomeUSA, Inc., then the nation’s largest independent dealer of manufactured homes. In addition, we completed several other acquisitions of independent dealers during fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2000. We also expanded our Company-owned retail network through the development of “greenfield” locations, which are locations that we started ourselves rather than through acquisition of existing operations. The combination of these two strategies carried us to a high of 244 stores in November 2000. We also established a financial services subsidiary, HomeOne Credit Corp. (HomeOne), to provide finance and insurance products to our retail operations as part of a vertically integrated housing strategy. Since then, as the retail market for manufactured housing has continued to slow down and losses in our retail operation have risen, we implemented a downsizing strategy to better match our retail capacity to market demand. We reduced the number of stores that we operate to 135 at the end of fiscal 2005. In March 2005, we announced our intention to exit the manufactured housing retail and financial services businesses and 8 focus on our core manufacturing activities. The retail housing and related financial services operations have been designated as held-for-sale and presented as discontinued operations. Competition in Our Business The recreational vehicle market is highly competitive, with numerous participants. The five largest manufacturers represented approximately 70 percent of the retail market in calendar 2004, including our sales, which represented 15.3 percent of the total market. For calendar 2004, we held a 17.9 percent share of the motor home market, an 11.7 percent share of the travel trailer market and a 38.2 percent share of the folding trailer market. The manufactured housing industry is also highly competitive. For calendar 2004, there were approximately 66 manufacturers, with the 10 largest companies accounting for approximately 80 percent of the retail market, including our sales, which represented 17.4 percent of the retail market. Manufactured homes compete with used and repossessed manufactured homes, new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhomes and condominiums. Competition exists at both the wholesale and retail levels and is based primarily on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, merchandising, and availability and cost of dealer and retail customer financing. Growth in the manufactured housing market in the southern United States during the 1990s increased competition at both the wholesale and retail levels and resulted in both regional and national competitors increasing their presence in the region. Competitive Advantages We believe that we have certain competitive advantages as described below. We have a leadership position in both the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries We have had leading positions in both the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industry for many years. We have a widely diversified market position in the recreational vehicle industry and are one of the largest players in each segment of the industry, including motor homes, travel trailers and folding trailers. In addition, we are the second largest producer of HUD-Code manufactured housing in the United States. Both the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries are relatively fragmented, and our scale and market leadership provide a number of competitive advantages compared to smaller players in each industry, including the areas of purchasing efficiencies and service and warranty support. We have highly regarded dealer networks in each of our segments Our dealer network includes many of the largest and most successful retailers in the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries. We strive to develop and implement “best practices” among our dealers through training programs and manuals. We have a comprehensive dealer agreement for all of our recreational vehicle dealers (endorsed by the Recreation Vehicle Dealers Association) that requires the dealer to meet criteria in regard to sales and stocking requirements and customer satisfaction goals. In the manufactured housing business, approximately 39 percent of our distribution points (including Company-owned stores) are exclusive, reflecting our strategic focus on the Pinnacle Retailer Program, which is designed to encourage more exclusive dealer relationships. We have proven engineering and innovative product development capabilities Fleetwood conducts product development activities on a national basis for recreational vehicles and on a regional basis for manufactured housing in order to reflect regional preferences and trends. Under both approaches, projects are carefully evaluated throughout the entire product development process. We develop innovative new products and product enhancements through an integrated approach that includes 9 retail customer and dealer surveys, market research, engineering, sales and manufacturing, and our suppliers. As a result, we are able to proactively design and manufacture quality products that address both industry trends and specific customer requirements in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner. We deliver high-quality products and customer service We promote customer loyalty through the design of quality products and the delivery of a satisfying customer experience before, during and after the sale. Our quality improvement process focuses on increasing customer satisfaction by improving the quality and design of Fleetwood products and enhancing the customer’s shopping experience. In this regard, we have developed a number of ongoing processes, including: · designing our products with materials that frequently exceed both government requirements and industry standards; · training both our employees and our dealers’ employees in customer satisfaction techniques and quality improvement procedures; · providing additional services, such as comprehensive training of our dealers’ employees and contractors regarding proper installation techniques for manufactured homes; · offering extensive warranties in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; and · responding quickly and effectively to customer inquiries and concerns. We use independent consumer surveys to determine whether retail customers are satisfied with the quality of our products and the level of service provided by us and our dealers. An independent consumer research firm conducts telephone surveys and communicates customer responses to our manufacturing entities and dealers to reinforce quality performance and minimize customer problems. Each year, specific customer satisfaction goals are established for our manufacturing operations and independent dealers. Dealers who meet these performance standards are recognized with our Circle of Excellence Award, and our manufacturing centers are similarly honored for meeting targeted levels of customer satisfaction. We believe that these efforts have resulted in increased awareness of the importance of product quality and service. We are led by an experienced management team whose interests are aligned with those of our shareholders Both our manufactured housing and recreational vehicle groups benefit from the significant experience of our management. We have also recently enhanced our management team with the addition of seasoned industry veterans in key leadership positions who further strengthen our organization. All of our senior management team receive a portion of their annual compensation through equity incentives and a significant portion of cash compensation based on operating performance, directly aligning their interests with those of our shareholders. Our Business Strategy Our goals are to enhance our position as a leading provider of affordable, high-quality recreational vehicles and manufactured homes, to sustain long-term profitable growth and to enhance shareholder value. The key components of our business strategy are described below. Focus on manufacturing operations We recently announced plans to sell our manufactured housing retail and financial services businesses. Our vertically integrated approach to the manufactured housing business came as a result of a strategic objective to protect our distribution channels and to take advantage of business opportunities 10 within the manufactured housing retail and finance industries. Subsequent to that decision, we experienced a significant industry-wide decline in the market for manufactured housing. Our decision to exit these businesses is intended to stem losses sustained in our retail operations. We believe that realigning our current objectives with our traditional focus on manufacturing operations and wholesale distribution channels in both our manufactured housing and in our recreational vehicle businesses will provide us with enhanced ability to regain our industry-leading position within both businesses. Create value for our shareholders through a dedicated focus on increasing profitability We seek to create value for our shareholders by growing revenues, containing costs, increasing efficiencies and optimizing existing assets. With ongoing organization and cost-structure changes, we believe we are poised for future growth and are making significant progress towards sustained profitability. Provide the best product and value proposition to our customers Our goal is to consistently offer the highest quality product at an attractive value that is not exclusively price-driven. We seek to achieve the value proposition by focusing on the needs and preferences of our buyer populations at different price points by product. We believe we are also effective at controlling cost factors while maintaining high quality standards because of our economies of scale, purchasing efficiencies, and a leverageable fixed infrastructure. Our focus on engineering and innovative product development translates into products that meet ever-changing consumer preferences at the business unit level for recreational vehicles and at the regional level for manufactured housing. For example, we believe the design process is critical and is embedded throughout the development, manufacturing and marketing cycle. Those costs are absorbed over significant unit volumes and result in acceptable per-unit costs because of our market penetration and volumes. Our customers for both recreational vehicles and manufactured housing expect consistency and quality because of the brand reputation and awareness of our products in the market. Finally, we believe that the customers’ experience with our products remains consistent through changing economic and sociological cycles because of the depth and background of our management team, which has experience functioning in different environments. Increase market share in targeted product segments We are one of the nation’s leaders in both recreational vehicle and manufactured housing sales, and have been in a leadership position for over 30 years. In recreational vehicles, our motor home market share has shown improvement during calendar years 2003 and 2004 after losing share in 2001 and 2002. The increase in market share is mainly due to the Class A and Class C product innovations that added many features. In late 2004, we introduced a new full-wall slide-out for one of our product lines, with plans to expand the technology to others soon. Our underlying technology, which is currently only available from Fleetwood, will be introduced on other models in 2005, and has been positively received by dealers and customers. In addition, we have refreshed most of the core motor home brands, adding floorplans with up to four slide-outs, as well as other features such as increased ceiling height and upgraded appliances and chassis performance. Consumer and dealer response to the new products has been positive. Additionally, we recently opened up a new Class C manufacturing facility on the East Coast, which will allow us to cost-effectively produce products for that geographic region and is expected to enhance our Class C market share. Finally, our entrance into the sports utility segment with our Gearbox activity support vehicle, several new innovative ultralight and hybrid travel trailer floorplans and the future introductions of completely redesigned core products later this summer is expected to drive market share recovery in the travel trailer segment. In manufactured housing, we increased market share during calendar 2004 by aggressively developing our distribution network of independent retailers and park operators, and also by continuing to offer innovative product. As the number of retail outlets for manufactured housing has declined year over year, 11 our retail distribution points increased from about 1,250 last year to approximately 1,320 this year. In terms of product, we won two design awards from the Manufactured Housing Institute this year, including an award for Concept Modular Home Design. In the future we will increase our focus on regional designs for our manufactured homes, and we will also increase our commitment to the growing market for modular homes, which are built to local and regional building codes as opposed to the federal HUD code. Sales and Distribution of Our Products Consistent with industry practice, we have historically marketed our products through many independent dealers, none of which individually accounted for a material part of our total sales. We expect this industry practice to continue with respect to recreational vehicles. However, the acquisition activity in the late 1990s in the retail sector of the manufactured housing industry prompted us to modify our manufactured housing sales and distribution strategies. We responded to this industry trend by upgrading our manufactured home retail distribution network, developing alternatives to replace dealers purchased by competitors, and promoting and expanding recognition of the Fleetwood brand name through exclusive “Fleetwood Home Centers” and through our own retail strategies, including acquisitions and the opening of stores built and owned by us. Largely as a result of the move into the retail business, our gross inventories increased sharply to $343 million at April 2000. Reflecting weaker market conditions and a reduction in the number of Company-owned stores, gross inventories have declined to $102 million at the end of April 2005, and in March 2005 we announced our intention to divest our retail operations and return to our prior strategy of wholesaling only to independent dealers. As part of the sales process, we offer purchasers of our recreational vehicles comprehensive one-year warranties against defects in materials and workmanship, excluding only certain components separately warranted by a supplier. The warranty period for motor homes is one year or until the unit has been driven 15,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except for structural items, which are covered for three years. Since model year 2005, the travel trailer warranty is also now for 12 months, while all folding trailer warranties cover 12 months on most parts and manufacturing-related defects. The warranty period for travel trailer products had been two years prior to model year 2005. Our RV Group has installed an electronic dealer communications network that facilitates the processing of product warranty claims and parts ordering. With respect to manufactured homes, our warranty also now covers a one-year period, and includes coverage for factory-installed appliances. Between March 2000 and December 2002, our home warranty covered a two-year period. Company-wide annual direct and indirect expenses for product warranties and service were approximately $131 million for fiscal 2005, $103 million for fiscal 2004, and $118 million for fiscal 2003. We believe that our warranty program is an investment that enhances our reputation for quality and reliability. Financing of Our Products Sales of recreational vehicles and manufactured housing are generally made to dealers under commitments by financial institutions that have agreed to finance dealer purchases. Consumer financing for recreational vehicles is currently readily available from a variety of sources including commercial banks, savings and loan institutions, credit unions and consumer finance companies. With respect to manufactured housing, wholesale and retail financing has historically been provided by similar lending sources, although highly concentrated with a few large institutions and by the finance affiliates of certain vertically integrated manufacturers/retailers. Until May 1996, we owned Fleetwood Credit Corp., which provided a substantial portion of the wholesale and retail financing for sales of our recreational vehicles. We sold Fleetwood Credit Corp. to Associates First Capital Corporation (Associates) in May 1996. In connection with the sale, an agreement was signed to assure continuing cooperation between Associates and us and to facilitate wholesale and retail financing for our retailers and customers. Early in calendar 1999, Fleetwood Credit Corp. was sold by 12 Associates to Bank of America. We consented to an assignment of the operating agreement to the new owner. Under the agreement, we agreed to certain limitations on our involvement in recreational vehicle financing programs until May 2006. Manufactured housing lenders have experienced higher loan losses and a more difficult funding environment over the last several years. Repossessions increased due to the fact that some lenders had made loans in earlier periods to less-qualified applicants, and a significant number of these borrowers had begun to default on their loans. Access to the asset-backed securities market as a source of funding similarly has been constricted and the cost of funds has risen sharply. As a result, lenders reacted by tightening credit standards for manufactured housing borrowers, by significantly increasing interest rates and in some cases by exiting the business. Chase announced in May 2004 that it was discontinuing its manufactured housing finance business. This announcement followed the previously announced exits from the retail finance business by Associates, Bombardier Capital, Inc., Conseco, CIT Group Inc. and GreenPoint. In addition, several other smaller lenders have exited the business during the past three to four years. These unfavorable developments created a very restrictive retail financing environment, which in turn constrained sales activity at both the wholesale and retail levels. Both U.S. Bancorp and GreenTree, which was acquired out of the Conseco bankruptcy by a consortium of investment funds, have begun to provide manufactured housing retail financing. Depending on the extent of financing actually made available by these or other lenders in the future, it is possible that these new sources of financing could begin to moderate the effect of the restrictive retail financing environment that has challenged the manufactured housing industry in recent years. Conseco, also the largest wholesale inventory lender, announced in March 2002 it would exit that business, and in October 2002, Deutsche, another large housing wholesale floorplan lender, announced it was exiting the business. Since the announcements by Conseco and Deutsche, dealer transitions to other floorplan lenders were orderly and we experienced relatively little difficulty finding alternative sources of inventory financing for most of our dealers, including Company-owned stores. Despite some disruption to the industry, generally, there has been sufficient wholesale floorplan financing available through other lenders to fill the vacuum created by the Conseco and Deutsche departures. More recently, the manufactured housing finance groups of two other national lenders, Transamerica and Bombardier, have been acquired by General Electric Corp., although this has not yet had an impact on lending volumes. Regulatory Issues Applicable to Our Business and Products Our manufactured housing operations are subject to provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, under which the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) establishes construction and safety standards for manufactured homes, and also may require manufactured housing producers to send notifications to customers of noncompliance with standards or to repair or replace manufactured homes that contain certain hazards or defects. Our recreational vehicle operations are subject to a variety of Federal, state and local regulations, including the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, under which the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) may require manufacturers to recall recreational vehicles that contain safety-related defects, and numerous state consumer protection laws and regulations relating to the operation of motor vehicles, including so-called “Lemon Laws.” In 2002, the Transportation Recall Enhancement Accountability Documentation Act was approved by Congress and administered by the NHTSA. Under this rule, motor vehicle manufacturers (automotive, truck and RV) and motor vehicle equipment manufacturers are required to report information and submit documents relating to customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports, injuries, property damage and deaths. This information may assist NHTSA to promptly identify defects related to motor vehicle safety. Fleetwood has implemented systems and processes to meet these reporting requirements. 13 Our Intellectual Property Fleetwood®, Fleetwood Homes®, Fleetwood RV® and the principal brand and series names we use in connection with our recreational vehicles and manufactured homes are registered trademarks of ours. We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to our business, and we vigorously protect them against infringement. Aside from design patents on certain distinctive features of our most prominent motor home models, we have not typically obtained patent protection on our products. In addition to our trademarks and patents, we have developed numerous trade secrets in connection with the design, manufacture, sales and marketing of our products. We believe that these trade secrets are of great significance to our business success and we will take reasonable steps to prevent their disclosure to competitors. Our Relationship with Our Employees As of April 24, 2005, we had approximately 12,700 employees. Most full-time employees are provided with paid annual vacations, group life insurance, medical and hospitalization benefits, a retirement plan and other fringe benefits. Approximately 700 of these employees hold management or supervisory positions. As of April 24, 2005, collective bargaining agreements were in effect at two of our manufacturing locations covering a total of approximately 840 employees. The expiration dates for these agreements are in October 2008 and September 2007. Except for employees at these two plants, none of our other employees are represented by a certified labor organization. In the past, we have experienced labor union organization activity at several manufacturing locations. However, in recent years we have not experienced any significant labor union organizing activity. Risks Relating to Our Business If any of the following risks actually occur, they could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. We have had significant losses in the last five fiscal years and it is possible that we may not be able to regain profitability in the foreseeable future. This could cause us to limit future capital expenditures and also increase the difficulty of implementing our business and finance strategies or meeting our obligations when due. We had net losses totaling $162 million, $22 million, $71 million, $162 million, and $284 million for fiscal years 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Continued losses may reduce our liquidity and may cause us to reduce our expenditures on capital improvements, machinery and equipment, and research and development. This could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain production schedules, manufacture products of high quality, and develop and manufacture new products that will achieve market acceptance. This could, in turn, have a negative effect on our sales and earnings. If we continue to suffer losses, we could be unable to implement our business and financial strategies or meet our obligations when due. Our losses in recent fiscal years were partially caused by the following conditions: · reduced demand in the manufactured housing and, during certain periods, recreational vehicle industries; · low utilization of capacity, particularly in our manufactured housing and towable plants; · certain wholesale and retail lenders abandoning the manufactured housing market; · restrictive lending standards in the manufactured housing market by the remaining retail lenders; · relatively high interest rates for manufactured homes as opposed to site-built homes; 14 · competition with resellers of repossessed manufactured homes; · weaker general economic conditions, stock market declines, and diminished consumer confidence; · excess retail inventories primarily in our RV distribution network; · unforeseen manufacturing complexities resulting from the introduction of new products, primarily in the travel trailer segment; and · lack of market acceptance of certain new products. We cannot provide assurance that the conditions that have resulted in our substantial losses in fiscal years 2001 through 2005 will not continue in fiscal 2006 and beyond. In addition to the foregoing conditions, actions we took in response to the circumstances that contributed significantly to the losses included: · charges in fiscal 2002 related to the impairment of goodwill that originated with our acquisitions of retail housing businesses in prior years, some of which have been closed or downsized; · downsizing initiatives within all our businesses, including asset impairment charges, write down of idle manufacturing facilities, employee severance payments and plant closing costs; and · impairment charges in fiscal 2005 related to the decision to exit the retail and financial services businesses and present their results as discontinued operations. We may be unable to comply in the future with financial covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility, which could result in a default under our debt obligations, and our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions which could restrict our ability to operate. In May 2004, we announced the early renewal and extension of our secured credit facility with Bank of America. If our liquidity and our operating results deteriorate significantly due to business or economic conditions, we may breach covenants under the amended and restated facility, resulting in a default. We were required to amend the facility in March 2005 and reset a financial covenant in order to avoid a covenant breach. In addition, we were recently required to obtain a waiver of a covenant default from Greenwich Capital relating to our warehouse line for HomeOne Credit Corp. Under the senior secured facility agreement, as amended, we are not subject to a financial performance covenant except in the event that our average monthly liquidity, defined as cash, cash equivalents and unused borrowing capacity, falls below $90 million on a consolidated basis or $60 million within the borrowing subsidiaries. Under these circumstances, we are required to meet a designated cumulative EBITDA requirement that has been restated to reflect the current outlook for earnings. A breach of the covenants could result in a default under this facility, as well as a cross-default in our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures, our retail floorplan facility with Textron Financial Corp. (Textron) and our capital lease obligations. In addition, our HomeOne Credit Corp. subsidiary’s warehouse line of credit with Greenwich Capital contains financial covenants that apply to HomeOne and the parent company, which as indicated above we recently breached. In the event of a future default under our debt obligations, we cannot be certain that our lenders will agree to forebear from enforcing any remedies otherwise available to them or that they will grant us further waivers or amend our covenants. Our credit facility ranks senior to the senior convertible subordinated debentures and the convertible subordinated debentures. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, except for some inventories that are used to secure floorplan arrangements, the cash value of our Company-owned life insurance, certain fixed assets, including some of our real property, and housing retail finance receivables (chattel loans and/or mortgages). Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. A default under our senior secured facility could also cause a default under our retail 15 floorplan debt with Textron and our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures. If we were unable to repay all outstanding balances, the lenders could proceed against our assets, and any proceeds realized upon the sale of assets would be used first to satisfy all amounts outstanding under our senior debt and, thereafter, any of our other liabilities, including liabilities relating to our convertible securities. In addition, we may be prevented from borrowing additional amounts under our other existing credit agreements, including any retail inventory floorplan facilities. In March 2005, the Company’s financial services subsidiary, HomeOne, renewed and extended an agreement with Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. (Greenwich) that provides up to $75 million in warehouse funding. The warehouse line of credit expires on March 15, 2006. Collateral for borrowings under the facility is manufactured housing consumer loans originated by HomeOne. The availability of financing under the facility is dependent on a number of factors, including the borrowing base represented by the loans pledged to Greenwich. The Company and HomeOne agreed to guarantee the facility in an aggregate amount not to exceed 10 percent of the amount of principal and interest outstanding. The Company’s guaranty includes financial and other covenants, including maintenance of specified levels of tangible net worth, total indebtedness to tangible net worth and liquidity. In anticipation that the Company would not be able to comply with certain of these covenant requirements commencing in June 2005, Greenwich agreed to amend the covenant requirements to levels that the Company expects will be achievable. In the event that the Company failed to sell the loan portfolio and subsequently breached the covenant, the resultant default would also cause the secured credit facility, the Textron retail flooring liability, the 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures and our capital lease obligations to be in technical default. Lender actions in the event of default might: · restrict our investment in working capital and capital expenditures; · limit our ability to react to changes in market conditions due to a lack of resources to develop new products; · hamper the marketing of our products due to a lack of funds to support advertising expenditures; · increase our risk of not surviving an extended downturn in our businesses compared to other competitors whose capital structures are less highly leveraged; · restrict our ability to merge, acquire or sell properties; and · cause us to seek protection from our creditors through bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise. Reduced availability of financing for our retailers or retail customers, particularly in our manufactured housing business, could continue to affect our sales volume. Our dealers, as well as retail buyers of our products, generally secure financing from third party lenders, which, in the case of manufactured housing, have been negatively affected by adverse loan experience. For example, Conseco, Associates, Chase and GreenPoint, which had been very important lenders for customers of our dealers in the 1990s, have withdrawn from the manufactured housing finance business. Reduced availability of such financing and higher interest rates are currently having an adverse effect on the manufactured housing business and our housing sales. If third party financing were to become unavailable or were to be further restricted, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Availability of financing is dependent on the lending practices of financial institutions, financial markets, governmental policies and economic conditions, all of which are largely beyond our control. For example, floorplan lenders have tightened credit availability, Conseco and Deutsche have exited that business in the manufactured housing industry and Transamerica and Bombardier’s manufactured housing wholesale finance businesses have been acquired by General Electric Corp. In addition, quasi-governmental agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are important purchasers of loans from financial institutions, have tightened standards relating to the manufactured housing loans that they will buy. Most states classify manufactured homes as personal property rather than real property for 16 purposes of taxation and lien perfection. Interest rates for manufactured homes are generally higher and the terms of the loans shorter than for site-built homes. In the current environment, financing for the purchase of manufactured homes is often more difficult to obtain than conventional home mortgages. There can be no assurance that affordable wholesale or retail financing for either manufactured homes or recreational vehicles will continue to be available on a widespread basis. Our repurchase agreements with floorplan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries, we enter into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions pursuant to which we agree, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to these credit sources, to repurchase product at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12, 18 or 24 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, represents a financial expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a large number of manufactured homes or recreational vehicles in the future, this would increase our costs, which could have a negative effect on our earnings. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and consequent repurchase obligations on our part that may be higher than has historically been the case. During fiscal 2005, we repurchased 85 manufactured homes and 89 recreational vehicles at an aggregate gross purchase price to us of $6.3 million, incurring a loss upon resale of about $1.2 million, compared to repurchases of 76 manufactured homes and 101 recreational vehicles at an aggregate purchase price of $3.7 million, incurring a loss upon resale of about $600,000 during fiscal 2004. Excess inventories of our products among retailers and repossessions could continue to have a negative effect on our sales volume and profit margins. The level of manufactured housing and recreational vehicle retail inventories and the existence of repossessed homes in the market can have a significant impact on manufacturing shipments and operating results, as evidenced in the manufactured housing industry during the past five years. The continuing deterioration in the availability of retail financing has already extended the inventory adjustment period beyond what was originally expected. Competition from repossessed homes has further extended this inventory adjustment period. More liberal lending standards in the past resulted in loans to less-creditworthy customers, many of whom have defaulted on these loans. Lenders are repossessing the customers’ homes and reselling them at prices significantly below the retail price of a new home, thereby increasing competition for manufacturers of new homes. This situation was exacerbated by the bankruptcy filings of Oakwood Homes and Conseco in 2003, which led both companies to sell large numbers of repossessed homes for cash at distressed prices at auctions or at wholesale, rather than to attempt to refinance the defaulted loans. These circumstances led to an increase in recent years in the number of available repossessed homes and to a further deterioration in the price of these homes. These trends appear to have stabilized; however, if these trends were to deteriorate once more, or if retail demand were to significantly weaken, the resulting inventory overhang could result in price competition and further pressure on profit margins within the industry and could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We may not be able to obtain financing in the future, and the terms of any future financings may limit our ability to manage our business. Difficulties in obtaining financing on favorable terms would have a negative effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition to capital available under the senior secured credit facility, we anticipate that we may be required to seek additional capital in the future, including financing necessary to fund capital expenditure needs in our recreational vehicle business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future financings on acceptable terms, if at all. 17 Further, in November 2001, Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. announced that it had lowered its rating on our senior implied debt from B1 to B2, and on our then outstanding convertible trust preferred securities from B3 to Caa3, with a negative rating outlook. At the time, Moody’s stated that its action reflected the continuing erosion in our operating performance due to a protracted decline in the manufactured housing industry and a slowdown in the recreational vehicle business, and that the negative outlook reflected the highly uncertain intermediate-term outlook for demand in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle markets. In December 2001, Standard and Poor’s announced that it had lowered our corporate credit rating from BB+ to BB-, and the rating on our then outstanding convertible trust preferred securities from B+ to D, with a negative rating outlook. At the time, Standard and Poor’s cited our materially weakened business position due to a continuation of very competitive business conditions in both our manufactured housing and recreational vehicle business segments, and our constrained financial profile, as reflected by the granting of security to our lenders and the discontinuation and deferral of our common dividends and existing convertible trust preferred security distributions, respectively. Standard and Poor’s attributed its negative outlook to the prospects for continued weak performance within both of our primary business segments and the vulnerability of our corporate credit ratings to further downgrades. These actions, combined with our recent significant losses, could result in any capital that we might need in the future being more expensive or more difficult to raise. If we are unable to obtain alternative or additional financing arrangements in the future, or if we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategies. Moreover, the terms of any such additional financing may restrict our financial flexibility, including the debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. Although we have indicated we intend to sell our HomeOne Credit finance subsidiary, we may continue to incur additional losses related to that subsidiary as we continue to operate the business and build its loan portfolio, including losses relating to defaults and delinquencies, and we will be required to bear a greater portion of that risk than certain of our competitors since we did not securitize our loans in the secondary market. We have limited recent experience operating a consumer finance business. We previously originated loans for our recreational vehicle business through our Fleetwood Credit Corp. subsidiary, but we sold that subsidiary in 1996. We had not originated or serviced manufactured housing loans prior to 2001. Our ability to build our loan portfolio in connection with this new consumer finance business has depended in part upon our ability to compete with established lenders, and to effectively market our consumer finance services to buyers of our manufactured homes, in the same unfavorable economic conditions that have caused experienced consumer finance companies to exit the manufactured housing business. We have now indicated we intend to exit our consumer finance business, but we may continue to incur losses as we continue to operate the business and develop our loan portfolio. Many purchasers of manufactured homes may be deemed to be relatively high credit risks due to various factors, including the lack of or impaired credit histories and limited financial resources. Accordingly, the loans we originate may bear relatively high interest rates and may involve higher than average default and delinquency rates and servicing costs. In the event that we foreclose on delinquent loans, our ability to sell the underlying collateral to recover or mitigate our loan losses will be subject to market valuations of the collateral. These valuations may be affected by factors such as the amount of available inventory of manufactured homes in the market, the availability and terms of consumer financing and general economic conditions. In addition, we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and do not currently use interest rate swaps, futures contracts, options on futures or other types of derivative financial instruments to decrease such exposure. An increase in interest rates could result in an increase in our interest expense and a decrease of the fair market value of our finance loan receivables. 18 Moreover, due to our limited operating history and, as a result of the relatively small scale of our lending portfolio, our non-participation in the housing securitization market, we have not been in a position to sell our loans in the asset-backed securities market. As a result, we have been required to bear a larger portion of the risk of loss on the financing agreements. Also as a result, if we should endeavor to sell the loans as whole loans, our lack of experience in the whole loan sale market may impact the proceeds we receive from whole loan sales transactions. These conditions could negatively affect our cash flow or result in losses at our consumer finance business. Prepayments of our receivables, whether due to refinancing, repayments or foreclosures, in excess of management’s estimate could also result in reduced future cash flow due to the resulting loss of net interest income on such prepaid receivables. Prepayments can result from a variety of factors, all of which are beyond our control, including changes in interest rates and general economic conditions. The foregoing risks become more acute in any economic slowdown or recession. Periods of economic slowdown or recession may be accompanied by decreased demand for consumer credit and declining asset values. Delinquencies, foreclosures and losses generally increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Loss of employment, increases in cost-of-living, increases in rents on leased land for homes in manufactured housing communities or other adverse economic conditions would likely impair the ability of our consumer borrowers to meet their payment obligations, which could impair our ability to continue to fund our finance operations. The recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries are highly competitive and some of our competitors have stronger balance sheets and cash flows, as well as greater access to capital, than we do. The relative strength of our competitors could result in decreased sales volume and earnings for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive. As of December 31, 2004, there were approximately 66 manufacturers of homes and fewer than 8,000 retail sales centers. Based on retail sales, the 10 largest manufacturers accounted for approximately 80 percent of the retail manufactured housing market in calendar 2004, including our sales, which represented 17.4 percent of the market. The manufactured housing retail market is much more fragmented. Competition with other housing manufacturers on both the wholesale and retail levels is based primarily on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, retail inventory, merchandising, and the terms and availability of wholesale and retail customer financing. Growth in manufacturing capacity during the 1990s increased competition at both the manufacturing and retail levels and resulted in both regional and national competitors increasing their presence in the markets in which we compete. Overproduction of manufactured housing in these regions could lead to greater competition and result in decreased margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, manufactured homes compete with new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. The supply of such housing has increased in recent years with the increased availability of construction financing and low-rate mortgage financing, reducing the demand for manufactured homes. Manufactured homes also compete with resales of homes that have been repossessed by financial institutions as a result of credit defaults by dealers or customers. Repossession rates for manufactured homes have increased in recent years and there can be no assurance that repossession rates will not continue to increase, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. The manufactured housing industry, as well as the site-built housing development industry, has experienced consolidation in recent years, which could result in the emergence of competitors, including developers of site-built homes, that are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we 19 have. For example, the large conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway has acquired two of our competitors, Clayton Homes and Oakwood Homes. This combination could ultimately strengthen competition in the industry and adversely affect our business. The recreational vehicle market is also highly competitive. Sales from the five largest manufacturers represented approximately 70 percent of the retail market in calendar 2004, including our sales, which represented 15.3 percent of the market. Competitive pressures, especially in the entry-level segment of the recreational vehicle market for travel trailers, have resulted in a reduction of profit margins. Sustained increases in competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreational vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. Our businesses are cyclical and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing shipments, retail sales and operating results, and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Companies within both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as economic, demographic and political changes. Factors affecting the manufactured housing industry include: · interest rates and the availability of financing for manufactured housing products; · defaults by retail customers resulting in repossessions; · inventory levels, which have also negatively impacted our business; · availability of manufactured home sites; · commodity prices; · unemployment trends; · international tensions and hostilities; · consumer confidence; and · general economic conditions. Factors affecting the recreational vehicle industry include: · overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; · general economic conditions; · interest rates; · international tensions and hostilities; · unemployment trends; · fuel availability and prices; and · commodity prices. We cannot provide assurance that the factors that are currently adversely affecting our business will not continue to have an adverse effect beyond the present time. 20 Our businesses are seasonal, and this leads to fluctuations in sales, production and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production and net income as a result of seasonality in our businesses. Demand for manufactured housing and, particularly, recreational vehicles generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits in both industries are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may delay the timing of purchases and shipments from one quarter to another. We established a network of Company-owned retail stores that has required significant restructuring and downsizing, but our efforts did not succeed in making it profitable. We are now attempting to sell the business, and will incur losses and restructuring charges as a result. We responded to the retail consolidation in the manufactured housing sector, beginning in fiscal 1998, by forming our own retail business and establishing a network of Company-owned stores to replace distribution points lost to competitors. We made numerous acquisitions between June 1998 and August 2001, the largest of which was the purchase of HomeUSA in August 1998, comprising 65 stores. We also originated more than 100 “greenfield” locations, which are locations that we have started ourselves rather than through acquisition of existing operations. The combination of the two strategies carried us to a high of 244 stores in November 2000. Since its inception, this business segment has operated at a loss, and as the retail market for manufactured housing has slowed, the losses have grown. During fiscal 2002, we implemented a downsizing strategy to better match our retail capacity to market demand. By assigning management of some of our locations to third parties, and closing and selling other locations, we reduced the number of stores that we operate to 135 at March 31, 2005. These actions have resulted in goodwill impairment and restructuring charges and other costs, including severance payments to employees. Given existing industry conditions and the performance of this new business to date, we have indicated that we intend to seek one or more buyers for the business. We are taking this action in order to eliminate the losses we continue to incur in our retail operations, and to enable us to return to our traditional focus on manufacturing operations and wholesale distribution in both our manufactured housing and in our recreational vehicle businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete the sale of our retail network on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we will be required to incur substantial restructuring charges, and the business may incur greater losses pending its eventual sale. We have replaced some of our manufactured housing dealers, and in the past some of our dealers have been acquired. We also announced our exit from the retail business, and these Company-owned stores represent 16 percent of our sales. This may lead to a decrease in our sales volume and a loss of market share. Our market share in the manufactured housing market, based on unit shipments, declined from 21.6 percent in calendar 1994 to a low of 14.9 percent in 2002 before improving to 17.6 percent in calendar 2004. The reason for this change was, in part, our reduction of the number of independent retail distribution points from approximately 1,800 to 1,200 during the period from January 1994 through April 2005, in order to concentrate on more sophisticated dealers that share our approach towards merchandising and customer satisfaction. We have also, from time to time in the past, lost significant dealers that were acquired by competitors. Such acquisitions can reduce our retail distribution network and market share, as the competitors may choose not to sell our products. Although our market share rose to 17.6 percent in calendar 2004, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately replace the volume sold by our own retail stores or dealers acquired by competitors if they cease selling our manufactured homes, or that we will be able to maintain our sales volume or market share. 21 Changes in consumer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs. We believe that historical consumer preferences for our products in general, and recreational vehicles in particular, are likely to change over time. We further believe that the introduction of new features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our recreational vehicle operations. Delays in the introduction of new models or product features, or a lack of market acceptance of new features, designs or models, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we may incur significant additional costs in designing or redesigning models that are not accepted in the marketplace. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in consumer preferences, or our failure to properly gauge consumer preferences. We may also experience production difficulties, such as inefficiencies in purchasing and increased labor costs, as we introduce new models. We cannot be certain that new product introductions will not reduce revenues from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that any of these new models or products will be introduced to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. If there is a rise in the frequency and size of product liability and other claims against us, including wrongful death, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving products liability and other claims, including wrongful death, against us related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our products liability claims and purchase excess products liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premiums that we are required to pay for insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which may not be covered by our insurance. We are also presently party to actions in litigation that the plaintiffs are seeking to have certified as class actions. If any of these actions is decided in a manner adverse to us, the resulting liability may be significant. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that is significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business will be harmed. When we introduce new products we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, such as recall expenses, resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new models is critical to our future success, particularly in our recreational vehicle business. We have additional costs when we introduce new models, such as initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies, but we may also incur unexpected expenses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product. In addition, we may make business decisions that include offering incentives to stimulate the sales of products not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or obsolete models. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Fuel shortages, or higher prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on sales of recreational vehicles. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motor homes and most vehicles used to tow travel trailers and folding trailers. Particularly in view of increased international tensions and increased global demand for oil, there can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Increases in gasoline prices and speculation about potential fuel shortages have had an unfavorable effect on consumer demand for recreational vehicles from time to time in the past, which then had a material adverse effect on our sales volume, and may do so in the future. 22 Increases in the price of oil also can result in significant increases in the price of many of the components in our products, which may have a negative impact on margins or sales volumes. If we do not successfully upgrade our computer systems, we may lose sales to those of our competitors that have more sophisticated and better integrated systems than we do. Some of our computer systems are not as sophisticated as those that are currently available, and are not fully integrated. We are in the process of upgrading our computer systems, but we are still in the relatively early stages of this process. Competitors with more sophisticated and fully integrated computer systems may have efficiencies that will lead to lower costs and faster delivery schedules, and that may make it difficult for us to compete with them. We will be required to expend significant resources to fully implement a system suitable for a business as large and complex as ours. It is possible that the cost of building a computer system of this nature will be higher than budgeted, and that the system, when completed, will not perform as originally planned. This would increase our costs and disrupt our business. The market for our manufactured homes is heavily concentrated in the southern part of the United States, and a continued decline in demand in that area could have a material negative effect on sales. The market for our manufactured homes is geographically concentrated, with the top 15 states accounting for over 67 percent of the industry’s total retail sales in calendar 2004. The southern and south central United States accounts for a significant portion of our manufactured housing sales. As is the case with our other markets, we have experienced a downturn in economic conditions in these regions, and a continuing downturn in these regions that is worse than that of other regions and could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that the demand for manufactured homes will not continue to decline in the southern and south central United States or other areas in which we experience high product sales and any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in zoning regulations could affect the number of sites available for our manufactured homes, and zoning regulations could affect the market for our new products, both of which could affect our sales. Any limitation on the growth of the number of sites available for manufactured homes, or on the operation of manufactured housing communities, could adversely affect our sales. In addition, new product opportunities that we may wish to pursue for our manufactured housing business could cause us to encounter new zoning regulations and affect the potential market for these new products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, there has been resistance by property owners to the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, and we believe that this resistance has adversely affected the growth of the industry. The inability of the manufactured home industry to effect change in these zoning ordinances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and we cannot be certain that manufactured homes will receive more widespread acceptance or that additional localities will adopt zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes. Increased costs, including costs of component parts and labor costs, potentially impacted by changes in labor rates and practices, could reduce our operating income. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by the availability and pricing of manufacturing components and labor, as well as changes in labor rates and practices. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of any cost escalation in components and labor costs by negotiating with current or new suppliers and by increasing productivity or, where necessary, by increasing the sales prices of our products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so without it having an adverse impact on the competitiveness 23 of our products and, therefore, our sales volume. Changes in labor rates and practices, including changes resulting from union activity, could significantly affect our costs and thereby reduce our operating income. If we cannot successfully offset increases in our manufacturing costs, this could have a material adverse impact on our margins, operating income and cash flows. Even if we were able to offset higher manufacturing costs by increasing the sales prices of our products, the realization of any such increases often lags behind the rise in manufacturing costs, especially in our manufactured housing operations, due in part to our commitment to give our retailers price protection with respect to previously placed customer orders. We depend on a small group of suppliers for some of our components, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our sales or margins. Most recreational vehicle and manufactured home commodity components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few proprietary or specialty components are produced by a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to support our requirements on a national basis. Primarily, this situation occurs in the case of motor home chassis, where Spartan and Freightliner supply diesel powered chassis and Workhorse Custom Chassis and Ford Motor Company are the dominant suppliers of Class A gas chassis and Ford Motor Company is the dominant supplier of Class C chassis. Shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our sales. If we cannot obtain an adequate chassis supply, this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and may decline again in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in recent years and generally declined, from a closing price of $45.04 per share on March 6, 1998, to a low of $2.57 per share on August 9, 2002. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include: · actual and anticipated variations in our operating results; · general economic and market conditions; · interest rates; · general conditions, including changes in demand, in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · future issuances of our common stock, including issuances of common stock in connection with financing activities, conversion of the convertible trust preferred securities or the existing convertible senior subordinated debentures, or upon exercise of stock options, any of which could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share and otherwise cause the market price of our common stock to decline; · perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt when due; · developments in our relationships with our lenders, customers, and/or suppliers; · announcements of alliances, mergers or other relationships by or among our competitors and/or our suppliers and customers; 24 · announcements and the introduction of new products and models by us or our competitors and the success or failure of these new products and models; · developments related to regulations, including zoning regulations; · further downgrades of our corporate credit ratings of our senior implied debt or of specific securities; and · changes in senior management. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries and that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies within these industries. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We do not pay dividends on our common stock, and under the terms of the documents governing the Convertible Trust Preferred Securities, we are currently deferring payment of dividends on those securities. On October 30, 2001, we elected to defer distributions due to be made on November 15, 2001 on the Convertible Trust Preferred Securities and we have subsequently elected to defer all subsequent quarterly distributions to date. In light of our business environment and recent operating results, we currently anticipate that we will find it prudent to defer distributions on the Convertible Trust Preferred Securities for the foreseeable future, subject to the terms in the governing documents. We have the option to continue to defer payment of the distributions for a period that extends up to and including the dividend payment due on August 15, 2006. The deferral of distributions on the Convertible Trust Preferred Securities prevent us from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock during the period of such deferrals. Additionally, even if we choose to resume cash distributions on the Convertible Trust Preferred Securities in the future, we may choose not to pay dividends on our common stock. Amendments of the regulations governing our businesses could have a material impact on our operations. Both our recreational vehicle and manufactured housing businesses are subject to extensive federal and state regulations, including construction and safety standards for manufactured homes and safety and consumer protection laws relating to recreational vehicles. Amendments to any of these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations. In addition, a major product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that further amendments and additional regulations will be applicable to us and our products in the future. Amendments to these laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of Federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup or capital expenditures. 25 Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. 