risk factors include, without limitation, the following items: · the lack of assurance that the Company will regain sustainable profitability in the foreseeable future; · the Company’s ability to comply with financial covenants on existing debt obligations and to obtain future financing needed in order to execute its business strategies; · the volatility of our stock price; · the impact of ongoing weakness in the manufactured housing market and more recent weakness in the motor home market; · the effect of global tensions, fuel prices, interest rates, and other factors on consumer confidence, which in turn may impact demand for Fleetwood’s products; · the availability and cost of wholesale and retail financing for both manufactured housing and recreational vehicles; · repurchase agreements with floorplan lenders, which could result in increased costs; · the cyclical and seasonal nature of both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · potential increases in the frequency of product liability, wrongful death, class action, and other legal actions; · expenses and uncertainties associated with the manufacturing, development and introduction of new products; · the potential for excessive retail inventory levels in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · the highly competitive nature of our industries; and · lack of acceptance of Fleetwood’s products. Although management believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements, and actual results, events or performance may differ materially. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Fleetwood undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may arise from changing circumstances or unanticipated events. 1 Item 1. Business General Fleetwood is one of the nation’s leaders in producing both recreational vehicles and manufactured housing. We also operate three supply companies that provide components for the recreational vehicle and housing operations, while also generating outside sales. In fiscal 2006, we sold 54,574 recreational vehicles. In calendar 2005, we held a 12.5 percent share of the overall recreational vehicle retail market, consisting of a 17.5 percent share of the motor home market, an 8.7 percent share of the travel trailer market and a 38 percent share of the folding trailer market. For calendar year 2005, our folding trailer division was the leader in national market share in that segment, while our motor home business was in second position and the travel trailer division was in fourth position. For fiscal 2006, we shipped 22,681 manufactured homes and were the second largest producer of HUD-Code homes in the United States in terms of units sold. HUD-Code homes are homes manufactured in accordance with regulations published by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. In calendar 2005, the manufactured housing industry had a 7.9 percent share of the single-family housing starts. We had a 16.2 percent share of the manufactured housing wholesale market in calendar 2005. Our business began in 1950 as a California corporation producing travel trailers and quickly evolved to what are now termed manufactured homes. We re-entered the recreational vehicle business with the acquisition of a travel trailer operation in 1964. The present company was incorporated in Delaware in 1977, and succeeded by merger to all the assets and liabilities of the predecessor company. Our manufacturing activities are conducted in 16 states within the U.S., and to a much lesser extent in Canada. We distribute our manufactured products primarily through a network of independent dealers throughout the United States and Canada. In fiscal 1999, we entered the manufactured housing retail business through a combination of key acquisitions and internal development of new retail sales centers. We later established a financial services subsidiary to provide finance and insurance products to the retail operation. We designated these businesses as discontinued operations in March 2005 and sold them during the second quarter of fiscal 2006. This annual report, and each of our other periodic and current reports, including any amendments, are available, free of charge, on our website, www.fleetwood.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. The following table sets forth revenues by business segment and the relative contribution of these revenues to total revenues for the past three fiscal years. Information with respect to operating income (loss) and identifiable assets by industry segment is shown in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Form 10-K. Fiscal years ended April 2006 % 2005 % 2004 % (Amounts in thousands) Recreational vehicles: Motor homes $ 976,698 40 % $ 1,097,091 46 % $ 1,104,624 47 % Travel trailers 551,501 23 477,610 20 570,420 24 Folding trailers 84,018 3 85,181 4 104,189 4 1,612,217 66 1,659,882 70 1,779,233 75 Housing Group 795,596 33 785,547 33 657,388 28 Supply Group 50,214 2 57,020 2 41,120 2 Intercompany sales (25,627 ) (1 ) (127,737 ) (5 ) (117,135 ) (5 ) $ 2,432,400 100 % $ 2,374,712 100 % $ 2,360,606 100 % 2 Recreational Vehicles Industry Overview Recreational vehicles include motor homes, travel trailers, folding trailers and slide-in truck campers. Recreational vehicles are either driven or towed and are primarily used for vacations, camping trips and other leisure activities. A motor home is a motorized unit that can be used as a temporary dwelling during vacation and camping trips, as well as to support a variety of lifestyle activities, including outdoor recreation such as hunting and fishing, both on- and off-road racing, and tailgating at assorted local and national events. In many cases a motor home is utilized for extended travel and is often considered a second home. Motor homes are classified by the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association (RVIA) into three categories: Class A, Class B and Class C. Class A motor homes are constructed directly on medium-duty truck chassis that include the engine and drive train components. They are fully self-contained, including fresh water storage tanks and sewage holding tanks so that they can be used for short periods without being attached to utilities. They also typically include a driving area and kitchen, dining, bathroom and sleeping accommodations for two to eight people, and such optional features as air conditioning, an auxiliary power generator and home electronics such as a stereo, television and DVD player. Approximately 49 percent of Class A units are diesel-powered. Class B models, which comprise a small segment of the market in which Fleetwood does not participate, are panel-type trucks to which kitchen, sleeping and toilet facilities are added. Many of these models also have a top extension added to them for more headroom. Class C models are classified as mini motor homes, which are built on a cut-away van-type chassis onto which the manufacturer constructs a living area with access to the driver’s compartment. Class C models have basically the same features and options as Class A products, but the chassis manufacturer’s original dashboard and front cab section are retained. RVIA reported factory shipments of 37,900 Class A motor homes and 20,900 Class C motor homes for calendar 2005. These figures compare with shipments of 46,300 Class A motor homes and 23,000 Class C motor homes in calendar 2004. There are numerous competitors in this industry. However, the five largest manufacturers, including Fleetwood, represented approximately 70 percent of the combined Class A and Class C motor home retail market in calendar 2005. There are two major classes of towable recreational vehicles: travel trailers and folding trailers. Travel trailers are designed to be towed by pickup trucks, vans or other tow vehicles, and are similar to motor homes in use and features. Typically, travel trailers include sleeping, kitchen, dining and bathroom facilities and are self-contained units with their own lighting, heating, refrigeration, fresh water storage tanks and sewage holding tanks so that they can be used for short periods without being attached to utilities. RVIA identifies travel trailers as being either conventional or fifth-wheel trailers. Fifth-wheel trailers extend over and are hitched to the bed of the truck. For calendar 2005, RVIA reported factory shipments of 201,600 conventional trailers and 84,800 fifth-wheel trailers, compared with shipments of 163,600 and 91,000, respectively, for calendar 2004. The five largest manufacturers in calendar 2005, including Fleetwood, represented approximately 69 percent of the total travel trailer retail market. Folding trailers are smaller and lighter than their travel trailer counterparts and are consequently less expensive and easier to tow. Folding trailers typically include sleeping and eating facilities, fresh water storage and either a built-in icebox or a refrigerator. RVIA reported shipments of 32,800 folding trailers in calendar 2005, in contrast to 34,100 shipments in calendar 2004. Of all of the markets for recreational vehicles, the folding trailer market is the most concentrated, with the five largest manufacturers, including Fleetwood, holding 88 percent of the retail market in calendar 2005. Sales of recreational vehicles, along with the performance of the stock market, tend to be leading economic indicators. Based on recent RVIA forecasts, recreational vehicle shipments are expected to 3 decrease about 2 percent during calendar 2006 to approximately 377,000 units, which would be the second best year since 1978. We believe that a decline in consumer confidence resulting from international hostilities, high gas prices, rising interest rates, diminished home equity financings or an uncertain stock market could put additional downward pressure on current calendar year industry shipments. Recreational vehicles typically are a discretionary purchase for consumers, and sales are therefore affected principally by general economic conditions and consumer confidence, including the impact of the price of fuel on these factors. Generally, recreational vehicle purchasers have proven to be excellent credit risks, and therefore retail financing has not been an issue for our customers. Our Recreational Vehicle Business We have been one of the nation’s leaders in producing recreational vehicles since 1973 and distribute our products through a network of approximately 1,300 independent retailers in 49 states and Canada. Our retail market share and industry unit sales for each of the three segments in which we participated for the last three calendar years are as follows: Calendar Year 2005 2004 2003 Industry Retails Fleetwood Share Industry Retails Fleetwood Share Industry Retails Fleetwood Share Motor homes Class A 36,505 20.3 % 41,482 20.9 % 39,489 21.2 % Class C 19,515 12.2 19,656 11.7 17,016 9.9 Total motor homes 56,020 17.5 61,138 17.9 56,505 17.8 Travel trailers Conventional 154,723 10.6 144,917 14.2 129,882 14.8 Fifth-wheel 79,488 4.9 80,141 7.0 68,904 8.7 Total travel trailers 234,211 8.7 225,058 11.7 198,786 12.7 Folding trailers 24,493 38.0 28,696 38.2 30,920 41.6 Source: Statistical Surveys, Inc. Fleetwood’s overall motor home market share has declined slightly in calendar 2005 primarily due to a loss of Class A market share, partially offset by growth in the Class C segment. Our Class A diesel market share has continued to grow, driven mainly by new, innovative Class A diesel products while our high-line Class A gas and entry-level Class A gas have experienced market share erosion. Additionally, the Company has continued its focus on the Class C market as evidenced by the market share growth during calendar 2004 and 2005. Our continued focus on supplying the marketplace with high-value, innovative products should help us to grow our share in the Class A and Class C segment market share. Such high-value innovations in the last several years include introducing full-body paint, improved chassis and higher ceilings in several additional product lines, as well as introducing the full-wall slide concept to gas and then diesel motor home product lines. Our Class C market share has improved in recent years, primarily due to refocusing efforts to expand Class C distribution through our existing dealers and commercial rental customers and expanding East Coast Class C production capacity. Fleetwood is represented in motor homes by the Jamboree, Tioga, Terra, Fiesta, Flair, Storm, Bounder, Southwind, Pace Arrow, Bounder Diesel, Expedition, Discovery, Providence, Excursion, Revolution, American Tradition, American Eagle and American Heritage brands. Our Class A motor homes range in length from 26 to 45 feet and have an average retail price of approximately $188,000. Class C units range in length from 22 to 31 feet and have an average retail price of approximately $78,000. For calendar 2005, two of the industry’s 10 top-selling Class A motor homes were manufactured by Fleetwood, as well as two of the 10 top-selling Class C motor homes. 4 Over the past three calendar years, Fleetwood’s travel trailer market share has declined from 12.7 percent to 8.7 percent due to increased competition in the travel trailer industry, our lack of participation in a few growing market segments, including luxury and hybrid products, and declining volume in our core Prowler, Terry, and Wilderness product lines as a result of uncompetitive product offerings in terms of features and price that has hampered retail demand. Backlogs for dealer orders, however, continue to be at significantly elevated levels compared to the prior year, primarily due to better acceptance of late floor plan introductions in our existing brands and the early introduction of a new toy hauler brand, Nitrous, and, to a lesser extent, replenishment of dealer inventory used for disaster relief activity. Beginning in April and throughout this summer, we are introducing completely redesigned core products that have enhanced features and benefits at a more competitive price. We believe that with these new products, combined with others under development, our market share position should improve. We manufacture a variety of travel trailers under the Terry, Prowler, Wilderness, Mallard, Pioneer, GearBox, Nitrous, Pegasus, and Orbit nameplates. Our travel trailers are generally 8 feet wide, vary in length from 18 to 39 feet (including trailer hitch) and have an average retail price of approximately $29,000. We are the largest manufacturer of folding trailers, which we sell under the Fleetwood brand name. Our folding trailers range in length from 17 to 27 feet when deployed, and have an average retail price of approximately $11,200. For calendar 2005, six of the industry’s 10 top-selling folding trailer brands were manufactured by us. Manufactured Housing Industry Overview A manufactured home is a single-family house that is constructed in accordance with HUD construction and safety standards in a factory environment rather than at the home site. There are two basic categories of manufactured housing: single-section and multi-section. The manufactured housing industry grew significantly from 1991 to 1998, but has retrenched since then. According to the Manufactured Housing Institute (MHI), domestic shipments increased from 170,713 homes in calendar 1991 to 372,843 homes in calendar 1998, before declining to a 40-year low of 131,000 in calendar 2003. Although the industry shipped 146,744 homes in calendar 2005, once homes built for emergency shelter are excluded, the industry has remained at approximately the same level for three years. The manufactured housing industry’s share of new single-family housing starts experienced a similar cycle, growing from about 17 percent in calendar 1991 to 24 percent in calendar 1997, before declining to 7.9 percent in calendar 2005. We believe that the growth during the 1990s resulted from the increased availability of financing and also in large part from increasing consumer acceptance of manufactured housing, which was driven by the following: · improved product quality and design, and enhanced features; · a significant difference in the average price per square foot between site-built housing and manufactured housing; · favorable demographic and regional economic trends; and · increased availability and attractiveness of financing for manufactured housing dealers and consumers in 1991 through 1998 as a result of liberal credit underwriting and more favorable rates and terms due to competition among lenders for more volume. Today’s manufactured homes offer customers quality similar to many site-built homes at a more affordable price. Manufactured homes are constructed in a factory environment, utilizing assembly line techniques, which allows for volume purchases of materials and components and more efficient use of 5 labor. The quality of manufactured homes has increased significantly over the past 20 years, as producers generally build with the same materials as site-built homes. In addition, many features associated with site-built homes are included in manufactured homes, such as central heating, name brand appliances, carpeting, cabinets, walk-in closets, vaulted ceilings, wall coverings and porches. Also, optional features include such amenities as fireplaces, wet bars and spa tubs, as well as retailer-installed options such as central air conditioning, garages and furniture packages. As acceptance of manufactured housing has increased among higher-income buyers and financing for single-section homes has become more scarce, volume mix has shifted toward larger, multi-section homes, which accounted for 65 percent of industry shipments in calendar 2005, up from 47 percent in calendar 1991. MHI estimates that, had the hurricanes in 2005 not occurred, multi-section units would have accounted for 75 percent of all shipments, up from 74 percent in 2004. The hurricane response contributed to an overall increase in total retail sales from approximately $4.7 billion in calendar 1991 to more than $7.5 billion in calendar 2005. Approximately 70 percent of the manufactured homes produced in the United States are placed on individually owned lots. The balance are located on leased sites in manufactured housing communities. Due to zoning restrictions, most manufactured housing is sold in rural regions and towns outside of major urban areas. The manufactured housing industry is cyclical, and is affected by general economic conditions and consumer confidence. For the most part, the industry has recovered from the burden created several years ago related to excess manufacturing and retailing capacity, high dealer inventories and competition from repossessed units being resold at greatly distressed prices. Retail sales continue to be below the levels of the late 1990s due to the discontinuation of loose credit practices, which artificially stimulated demand during that period until replaced by the current restrictive financing conditions. With respect to the retail financing of manufactured housing, interest rates are generally higher and the terms of loans shorter than for site-built homes. In addition, some lenders have stopped extending loans to finance the purchase of manufactured homes. This has had the effect of making financing for manufactured homes even more expensive and more difficult to obtain relative to financing for site-built homes, which in turn has enjoyed a period of sustained low interest rates and liberal credit policies. Retail financing was a significant factor in the expansion of the industry, particularly toward the latter part of the 1990s growth cycle, when competitive retail lenders employed relatively liberal underwriting standards to capture more business. Although a major catalyst in fueling higher sales volume through 1998, the lower standards gave rise to an abnormally high rate of defaults and repossessions. In turn, retail lenders responded by sharply curtailing the availability of financing to our retail customers and elevating underwriting standards to overly restrictive levels. At the same time, manufacturers found themselves competing for the sale of new homes with resellers of these repossessed homes. Due to the difficult environment for chattel financing nationwide, the industry has trended toward more “land and home” or mortgage-type financing. Chattel financing is personal property financing secured only by the home and not by the underlying land on which the home is sited. Industry manufacturing and retail capacity have been reduced significantly in response to the financing environment. More than half of the retail lending capacity available in 2000 has exited the business. Although a few lenders have entered the market since late 2003, the volume of financing is still insufficient and has not yet translated into higher shipments. Ultimately, the reasonable availability of retail financing will be the key to an industry recovery. MHI projects that calendar 2006 will show shipments of 145,800, slightly below the hurricane-inflated shipments of 2005. 6 Our Manufactured Housing Business We are the second largest producer of HUD-Code manufactured housing in the United States in terms of units shipped by us to dealers, and we distribute our products through a network of approximately 1,240 dealers in 46 states. In calendar 2005, approximately 83 percent of our homes were shipped to dealers in the 20 states that constitute the largest markets for manufactured housing, including Florida, California, Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas. We are a leading producer of both single-section and multi-section manufactured homes, and our share of the manufactured housing market, based upon shipments to dealers, was 16.2 percent in calendar 2005. Calendar Year Shipments 2005 2004 2003 Shipments % Shipments % Shipments % Industry shipments Single-section 52,056 35 % 33,985 26 % 26,238 20 % Multi-section 94,688 65 96,817 74 104,699 80 Total 146,744 100 % 130,802 100 % 130,937 100 % Fleetwood shipments Single-section 8,141 34 % 7,717 33 % 3,393 17 % Multi-section 15,618 66 15,327 67 16,260 83 Total 23,759 100 % 23,044 100 % 19,653 100 % Fleetwood share of shipments Single-section 15.6 % 22.7 % 12.9 % Multi-section 16.5 15.8 15.5 Total 16.2 % 17.6 % 15.0 % Source: Manufactured Housing Institute We held a 15.6 percent share of the single-section manufactured housing market in calendar 2005, as measured by shipments to dealers. Our single-section homes generally range in size from 530 square feet to 1,290 square feet. The average single-section home, excluding homes built for emergency shelter, retailed for approximately $30,000 (excluding land costs). Total single-section home shipments represented approximately 34 percent of our manufactured housing unit shipments in calendar 2005. Our single-section homes are designed for the affordable housing market, which includes first-time, retiree and value-oriented buyers. A disproportionately high share of the increase in single-section sales in calendar 2004 and 2005 was because of emergency relief projects and manufactured housing community operator purchases. We held a 16.5 percent share of the multi-section manufactured housing market in calendar 2005, as measured by shipments to dealers. Our multi-section homes, which generally range in size from 750 square feet to 3,420 square feet, sold for an average retail price of approximately $57,000 (excluding land costs) and represented approximately 66 percent of our manufactured housing unit shipments in calendar 2005. Supply Operations and Other Businesses During fiscal 2006, our supply manufacturing operations included two fiberglass manufacturing companies that also produce various composite plastic parts. These businesses provide a reliable source of quality components for our principal manufacturing businesses, which include fiberglass, parts, lumber and other components, while also generating outside sales. In fiscal 2006, approximately 30 percent of the product volume of these manufacturing operations was used internally, and the remaining 70 percent was sold to third parties. The supply operations also include a lumber brokerage operation and an import 7 distribution business, each of which provides our manufactured housing and recreational vehicle businesses with reliable sources of quality raw materials and components. Certain areas of our business experienced rising raw material costs as prices for oil, aluminum, copper and other commodities increased. Discontinued Operations Retail Housing and Financial Services Like other manufacturers, we entered the retail business beginning in the late 1990s through acquisitions of independent retail dealers and by developing new locations. We also established a financial services subsidiary, HomeOne Credit Corp. (HomeOne), to provide finance and insurance products to customers of our retail operations as part of a vertically integrated housing strategy. As the retail market for manufactured housing continued to slow and losses in our retail operation increased, we downsized to better match our retail capacity to market demand. In March 2005, with the retail business still sustaining losses, we announced our intention to exit the manufactured housing retail and financial services businesses and focus on our core manufacturing activities. These businesses were designated as discontinued operations and were subsequently sold during the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Competition in Our Business The recreational vehicle market is highly competitive, with numerous participants. The five largest manufacturers represented approximately 66 percent of the retail market in calendar 2005, including our sales, which represented 12.5 percent of the total market. For calendar 2005, we held a 17.5 percent share of the motor home market, an 8.7 percent share of the travel trailer market and a 38.0 percent share of the folding trailer market. The manufactured housing industry is also highly competitive. For calendar 2005, there were approximately 67 manufacturers, with the 10 largest companies accounting for approximately 78 percent of the retail market, including our sales, which represented 18.7 percent of the retail market. Manufactured homes compete with used and repossessed manufactured homes, new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhomes and condominiums. Competition is based primarily on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, merchandising, and availability and cost of dealer and retail customer financing. Competitive Advantages We believe that we have certain competitive advantages as described below. We have a leadership position in both the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries We have had leading positions in both the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industry for many years. We have a widely diversified market position in the recreational vehicle industry and are one of the largest players in each segment of the industry, including motor homes, travel trailers and folding trailers. In addition, we are the second largest producer of HUD-Code manufactured housing in the United States. Both the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries are relatively fragmented, and our scale and market leadership provide a number of competitive advantages compared to smaller players in each industry, including the areas of purchasing efficiencies and service and warranty support. We have highly regarded dealer networks in each of our segments Our dealer network includes many of the largest and most successful retailers in the recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries. We strive to develop and implement “best practices” among 8 our dealers through training programs and manuals. We have a comprehensive dealer agreement for all of our recreational vehicle dealers (endorsed by the Recreation Vehicle Dealers Association) that requires the dealer to meet certain criteria with regard to sales and stocking requirements and customer satisfaction goals. In the manufactured housing business, approximately 31 percent of our distribution points are exclusive. We have proven engineering and innovative product development capabilities Fleetwood generally conducts product development activities on a national basis for recreational vehicles and on a regional basis for manufactured housing in order to reflect regional preferences and trends. Under both approaches, projects are carefully evaluated throughout the entire product development process. We develop innovative new products and product enhancements through an integrated approach that includes retail customer and dealer surveys, market research, engineering, sales and manufacturing, and our suppliers. As a result, we are able to proactively design and manufacture quality products that address both industry trends and specific customer requirements in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner. We deliver high-quality products and customer service We promote customer loyalty through the design of quality products and the delivery of a satisfying customer experience before, during and after the sale. Our approach to quality improvement focuses on increasing customer satisfaction by improving the quality and design of Fleetwood products and enhancing the customer’s shopping experience. In this regard, we have developed a number of ongoing processes, including: · designing our products with materials that frequently exceed both government requirements and industry standards; · training both our employees and our dealers’ employees in customer satisfaction techniques and quality improvement procedures; · providing additional services, such as comprehensive training of our dealers’ employees and contractors regarding proper installation techniques for manufactured homes; · offering extensive warranties in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; and · responding quickly and effectively to customer inquiries and concerns. We use independent consumer surveys to determine whether retail customers are satisfied with the quality of our products and the level of service provided by us and our dealers. An independent consumer research firm conducts telephone surveys and communicates customer responses to our manufacturing entities and dealers to reinforce quality performance and minimize customer problems. Each year, specific customer satisfaction goals are established for our manufacturing operations and independent dealers. Dealers who meet these performance standards are recognized with our Circle of Excellence Award, and our manufacturing centers are similarly honored for meeting targeted levels of customer satisfaction. We believe that these efforts have resulted in increased awareness of the importance of product quality and service. We are led by an experienced management team whose interests are aligned with those of our shareholders Both our manufactured housing and recreational vehicle groups benefit from the significant experience of our management. We have also recently enhanced our management team with the addition of seasoned industry veterans in key leadership positions who further strengthen our organization. All of our senior management team receives a portion of their annual compensation through equity incentives 9 and a significant portion of cash compensation based on operating performance, directly aligning their interests with those of our shareholders. Our Business Strategy Our goals are to enhance our position as a leading provider of affordable, high-quality recreational vehicles and manufactured homes, to sustain long-term profitable growth and to enhance shareholder value. The key components of our business strategy are described below: Focus on manufacturing operations We have returned to our traditional focus on manufacturing operations and wholesale distribution channels in both our manufactured housing and recreational vehicle businesses and believe this will provide us with enhanced ability to regain the industry-leading position within both businesses. We completed the sale of our manufactured housing retail and financial services businesses during fiscal 2006. Our vertically integrated approach to the manufactured housing business came as a result of a strategic objective to protect our distribution channels and to take advantage of business opportunities within the manufactured housing retail and finance industries. Subsequent to that decision, we experienced a significant industry-wide decline in the market for manufactured housing. Our exit from these businesses was undertaken to stem persistent losses sustained in our retail operations. Create value for our shareholders through a dedicated focus on increasing profitability We seek to create value for our shareholders by growing revenues, containing costs, increasing efficiencies and optimizing existing assets. With ongoing organization and cost-structure changes, we believe we are poised for future growth and are making significant progress towards sustained profitability. Provide the best product and value proposition to our customers Our goal is to consistently offer the highest quality product at an attractive value that is not exclusively price-driven. We seek to achieve the value proposition by focusing on the needs and preferences of our buyer populations at different price points by product. We believe we are also effective at controlling cost factors while maintaining high quality standards because of our economies of scale, purchasing efficiencies, and a leverageable fixed infrastructure. Our focus on engineering and innovative product development translates into products that meet ever-changing consumer preferences at the business unit level for recreational vehicles and at the regional level for manufactured housing. For example, we believe the design process is critical and we utilize feedback from development, manufacturing and marketing cycles. Those costs are absorbed over significant unit volumes and result in acceptable per-unit costs because of our market penetration and volumes. Our customers for both recreational vehicles and manufactured housing expect consistency and quality because of the brand reputation and awareness of our products in the market. Finally, we believe that the customers’ experience with our products remains consistent through changing economic and sociological cycles because of the depth and background of our management team, which has experience functioning in different environments. Increase market share in targeted product segments We are one of the nation’s leaders in both recreational vehicle and manufactured housing sales, and have been in a leadership position for over 30 years. In recreational vehicles, our motor home market share has shown improvement during calendar years 2003 and 2004 and then held steady in 2005 after losing share in 2001 and 2002. The increase in market share is mainly due to Class A and Class C product innovations that added many features. In late 2004, we introduced a new full-wall slide-out for our high-line gasoline product, with plans to quickly expand the technology to others. Our underlying technology, 10 which is currently only available from Fleetwood, was introduced on three diesel models in fiscal 2006, and has been positively received by dealers and customers. In addition, we have refreshed most of the core motor home brands, adding floor plans with up to four slide-outs, as well as other features such as increased ceiling height and upgraded appliances and chassis performance. Consumer and dealer response to the new products has been positive. Additionally, we opened up a new Class C manufacturing facility on the East Coast, which allows us to cost-effectively produce products for that geographic region and has begun to enhance our Class C market share. Over the past three calendar years, Fleetwood’s travel trailer market share has declined primarily due to increased competition, our lack of participation in a few growing segments and declining volume in our core Prowler, Terry and Wilderness products. We are in the process of introducing redesigned core products that will include several new and innovative floorplans in both the conventional and fifth-wheel segments. Our overall focus is to design each of our new products with the appropriate combination of features, benefits and pricing that will offer our customers the highest value relative to our competition. With our renewed focus on delivering high-value products, we anticipate longer-term market share growth. As the cycle in which a product is designed, produced, shipped and retailed is an extended length of time, we do not believe that we will see significant market share gains for a period of eight to 12 months. In manufactured housing, we increased market share during calendar 2004 by aggressively developing our distribution network of independent retailers and park operators, and also by continuing to offer innovative product. We also participated in a disproportionate share of sales to provide emergency shelter to the Florida region. In calendar 2005, our market share was impacted by the sale of our Company-owned retail stores. Approximately 50 of those stores were subsequently closed and the remaining stores have purchased fewer homes. Additionally, business from community and park operators was lower in 2005 and our share of sales of emergency shelter, while still good, was lower than the prior year. We have responded to these challenges by aggressively seeking new dealers to replace stores that were closed and increasing our focus on regional designs for our manufactured homes. We will also evaluate the growing market for modular homes, which are built to local and regional building codes as opposed to the federal HUD code. Sales and Distribution of Our Products Consistent with industry practice, we have historically marketed our products through many independent dealers, none of which individually accounted for a material part of our total sales. We expect to continue following this industry practice in both recreational vehicles and manufactured housing, particularly now that we have sold our Company-owned retail stores. As part of the sales process, we offer purchasers of our recreational vehicles comprehensive one-year warranties against defects in materials and workmanship, excluding only certain components separately warranted by a supplier. The warranty period for motor homes is one year or until the unit has been driven 15,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except for structural items, which are covered for three years. The travel trailer warranty is also for 12 months and folding trailer warranties cover 12 months on most parts and manufacturing-related defects. With respect to manufactured homes, our warranty covers a one-year period, and includes coverage for factory-installed appliances. Company-wide annual direct and indirect expenses for product warranties and service were approximately $121 million for fiscal 2006, $131 million for fiscal 2005, and $103 million for fiscal 2004. We believe that our warranty program is an investment that enhances our reputation for quality and reliability. Financing of Our Products Sales of recreational vehicles and manufactured homes are generally made to dealers under commitments by financial institutions that have agreed to finance dealer purchases. Consumer financing for recreational vehicles is currently readily available from a variety of sources including commercial banks, 11 savings and loan institutions, credit unions and consumer finance companies. With respect to manufactured housing, wholesale and retail financing has historically been provided by similar lending sources, although highly concentrated with a few large institutions and by the finance affiliates of certain vertically integrated manufacturers/retailers. Until May 1996, we owned Fleetwood Credit Corp. (FCC), which provided a substantial portion of the wholesale and retail financing for sales of our recreational vehicles. We sold FCC to Associates First Capital Corporation (Associates) in May 1996. In connection with the sale, an agreement was signed to assure continuing cooperation between Associates and us and to facilitate wholesale and retail financing for our retailers and customers. Early in calendar 1999, FCC was sold by Associates to Bank of America. We consented to an assignment of the operating agreement to the new owner. Under the agreement, we agreed to certain limitations on our involvement in recreational vehicle financing programs until May 2006. Manufactured housing retail lenders have experienced higher loan losses and a more difficult funding environment over the last several years. Repossessions increased due to the fact that some lenders had made loans in earlier periods to less-qualified applicants, and a significant number of these borrowers defaulted on their loans. Access to the asset-backed securities market as a source of funding similarly has been constricted and the cost of funds has risen sharply. As a result, lenders reacted by tightening credit standards for manufactured housing borrowers by significantly increasing interest rates and in some cases by exiting the business. Regulatory Issues Applicable to Our Business and Products Our manufactured housing operations are subject to provisions of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, under which the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) establishes construction and safety standards for manufactured homes, and also may require manufactured housing producers to send notifications to customers of noncompliance with standards or to repair or replace manufactured homes that contain certain hazards or defects. Our recreational vehicle operations are subject to a variety of Federal, state and local regulations, including the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, under which the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) may require manufacturers to recall recreational vehicles that contain safety-related defects, and numerous state consumer protection laws and regulations relating to the operation of motor vehicles, including so-called “Lemon Laws.” In 2002, the Transportation Recall Enhancement Accountability Documentation Act was approved by Congress to be administered by the NHTSA. Under this rule, motor vehicle manufacturers (automotive, truck and RV) and motor vehicle equipment manufacturers are required to report information and submit documents relating to customer complaints, warranty claims, field reports, injuries, property damage and deaths. This information may assist NHTSA to promptly identify defects related to motor vehicle safety. Fleetwood has implemented systems and processes to meet these reporting requirements. Our Intellectual Property Fleetwood®, Fleetwood Homes®, Fleetwood RV® and the principal brand and series names we use in connection with our recreational vehicles and manufactured homes are registered trademarks of ours. We believe that our trademarks and trade names are significant to our business, and we vigorously protect them against infringement. Aside from design patents on certain distinctive features of our most prominent motor home models, we have not typically obtained patent protection on our products. In addition to our trademarks and patents, we have developed numerous trade secrets in connection with the design, manufacture, sales and marketing of our products. We believe that these trade secrets are of great significance to our business success and we will take reasonable steps to prevent their disclosure to competitors. 12 Our Relationship with Our Employees As of June 1, 2006, we had approximately 11,500 employees. Most full-time employees are provided with paid annual vacations, group life insurance, medical and hospitalization benefits, a retirement plan and other fringe benefits. Approximately 630 of these employees hold management positions. As of the same date, collective bargaining agreements were in effect at two of our manufacturing locations covering a total of approximately 750 employees. The expiration dates for these agreements are in September 2007 and October 2008. Except for employees at these two plants, none of our other employees are represented by a certified labor organization. In the past, we have experienced labor union organization activity at several manufacturing locations. However, in recent years labor union organizing activity has been subdued. Seasonality We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production and net income as a result of seasonality in our businesses. Demand for manufactured housing and, particularly, recreational vehicles, generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits in both industries are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may delay the timing of purchases and shipments from one quarter to another. Environmental Compliance Our operations are subject to a variety of Federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations. 13 Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors or potential investors in Fleetwood should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations and hinder our financial performance. We have had significant losses in the last six fiscal years and it is possible that we may not be able to regain profitability in the foreseeable future. This could cause us to limit future capital expenditures and also increase the difficulty of implementing our business and finance strategies or meeting our obligations when due. We have had net losses in each year since fiscal 2001. Continued losses may reduce our liquidity and may cause us to reduce our expenditures on capital improvements, machinery and equipment, and research and development. This could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain production schedules, manufacture products of high quality, and develop and manufacture new products that will achieve market acceptance. This could, in turn, have a negative effect on our sales and earnings. If we continue to suffer losses, we could be unable to implement our business and financial strategies or meet our obligations when due. Our losses in recent fiscal years were caused mostly by the following conditions: · reduced demand in the manufactured housing and, during certain periods, recreational vehicle industries; · low utilization of capacity, particularly in our manufactured housing and towable plants; · certain wholesale and retail lenders abandoning the manufactured housing market; · restrictive lending standards in the manufactured housing market by the remaining retail lenders; · relatively high interest rates for manufactured homes as opposed to site-built homes; · competition with resellers of repossessed manufactured homes; · variable economic conditions, stock market declines, and diminished consumer confidence; · caution in potential motor home buyers, particularly first-time buyers, caused by high and volatile fuel prices; · untimely entry into the manfactured housing retail business in the late 1990s; · excess retail inventories in manufactured housing in the early part of the decade; · overproduction of RVs during fiscal 2005, leading to excess finished goods inventories and increased retail inventories in our distribution network; · unforeseen manufacturing complexities resulting from the introduction of new products, primarily in the travel trailer segment; and · lack of market acceptance of certain new products. We cannot provide assurance that the conditions that have resulted in our substantial losses since fiscal year 2001 will not continue in fiscal 2007 and beyond. In addition to the foregoing conditions, actions we took in response to the circumstances that contributed significantly to the losses included: · downsizing initiatives within all our businesses, including asset impairment charges, the writedown of idle manufacturing facilities, employee severance payments and plant closing costs; and · impairment and other charges in fiscal 2005 and 2006 related reorganization and to the retail and financial services businesses, which were sold during fiscal 2006 and are presented as discontinued operations in the financial statements. 14 We may be unable to comply in the future with financial covenants contained in our senior secured credit facility, which could result in a default under our debt obligations, and our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions which could restrict our ability to operate. In May 2004, we announced the early renewal and extension of our secured credit facility with Bank of America. If our liquidity and our operating results deteriorate significantly due to business or economic conditions, we may breach covenants under the amended and restated facility, resulting in a default. We were required to amend the facility in March 2005 and reset a financial covenant in order to avoid a covenant breach. Under the senior secured facility agreement, as amended, we are not subject to a financial performance covenant except in the event that our average monthly liquidity, defined as cash, cash equivalents and unused borrowing capacity, falls below $90 million on a consolidated basis or $60 million within the borrowing subsidiaries. Under these circumstances, we are required to meet a designated cumulative EBITDA requirement. A breach of the covenant could result in a default under this facility, as well as a cross-default in our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures and our capital lease obligations. In the event of a future default under our debt obligations, we cannot be certain that our lenders will agree to forebear from enforcing any remedies otherwise available to them or that they will grant us any further waivers or amend our covenants. Our credit facility ranks senior to the convertible senior subordinated debentures and the 6% convertible subordinated debentures. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding the cash value of our Company-owned life insurance and certain fixed assets, including some of our real property. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. A default under our senior secured facility could also cause a default under our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures. If we were unable to repay all outstanding balances, the lenders could proceed against our assets, and any proceeds realized upon the sale of assets would be used first to satisfy all amounts outstanding under our senior debt and, thereafter, any of our other liabilities, including liabilities relating to our convertible securities. Lender actions in the event of default might: · restrict our investment in working capital and capital expenditures; · limit our ability to react to changes in market conditions due to a lack of resources to develop new products; · hamper the marketing of our products due to a lack of funds to support advertising expenditures; · increase our risk of not surviving an extended downturn in our businesses compared to other competitors whose capital structures are less highly leveraged; · restrict our ability to merge, acquire or sell properties; and · cause us to seek protection from our creditors through bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise. We may not be able to obtain corporate financing in the future, and the terms of any future financings may limit our ability to manage our business. Difficulties in obtaining financing on favorable terms would have a negative effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition to capital available under the senior secured credit facility, we anticipate that we may be required to seek additional capital in the future, including financing necessary to refinance or replace existing long-term debt or to fund capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future financings, if needed, on acceptable terms, if at all. 15 On July 20, 2005, Standard & Poor’s announced that it had lowered the Company’s corporate credit rating from BB- to B+, with a negative outlook. At the same time, it lowered its rating on the Company’s convertible senior subordinated debentures from B to B-. Standard & Poor’s rating for the outstanding issue of convertible trust preferred securities remains D despite the payment on February 15, 2006, of the accrued distributions on that security that had been previously deferred, as permitted by its terms. In lowering the ratings, Standard & Poor’s cited the Company’s losses from continuing operations in fiscal 2005, but also noted that the expected sale of the assets of Fleetwood’s retail business will eliminate the operating losses from that operation while creating some additional near-term liquidity. Standard & Poor’s said the move should also enable the newly configured management team to channel resources into quickly stemming the losses within the Company’s historically strong RV Group, although it indicated that the ratings remain highly vulnerable to further downgrade should these efforts prove more time consuming or costly than expected. If we are unable to obtain alternative or additional financing arrangements in the future, or if we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategies. Moreover, the terms of any such additional financing may restrict our financial flexibility, including the debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and may decline again in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in recent years and generally declined, from a closing price of $45.04 per share on March 6, 1998, to a low of $2.57 per share on August 9, 2002. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include: · actual and anticipated variations in our operating results; · general economic and financial market conditions; · actual and anticipated volatility in the price and availability of fuel; · interest rates; · general conditions, including changes in demand and inventory levels, in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · future issuances of our common stock, including issuances of common stock in connection with financing activities, conversion of the convertible trust preferred securities or the existing convertible senior subordinated debentures, or upon exercise of stock options, any of which could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share and otherwise cause the market price of our common stock to decline; · perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt when due; · developments in our relationships with our lenders, customers, and/or suppliers; · announcements of alliances, mergers or other relationships by or among our competitors and/or our suppliers and customers; · announcements and introduction of new products and models by us or our competitors and the success or failure of these new products and models; · developments related to regulations, including zoning regulations; 16 · further downgrades of our corporate credit ratings of our senior implied debt or of specific securities; and · changes in senior management. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of companies in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries and that may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies within these industries. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Ongoing weakness in the manufactured housing market and more recent weakness in the motor home market. The manufactured housing industry has been in a prolonged slump that was initiated by undisciplined lending practices in the late 1990s. Although in recent years the industry has stabilized as default rates have fallen and inventories of repossessed homes have returned to more acceptable levels, there can be no assurance that the demand for manufactured housing will recover to what historically was considered more normal levels. More recently the motor home market has weakened in concert with lower consumer confidence, volatile fuel prices and rising interest rates. Ongoing weakness could limit growth opportunities and have a negative effect on future sales and profitability. Global tensions and fuel shortages, higher prices for fuel or rising interest rates could have a negative impact on consumer confidence and could have a resulting negative effect on sales of recreational vehicles. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motor homes and vehicles used to tow travel trailers and folding trailers. Particularly in view of increased international tensions and increased global demand for oil, there can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed, or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Increases in gasoline prices and speculation about potential fuel shortages, combined with rising interest rates, have had an unfavorable effect on consumer confidence in the past, including the recent past. As a result, these forces have caused a decline in demand for recreational vehicles from time to time, which then had a material adverse effect on our sales volume. This could happen again in the future. Increases in the price of oil also can result in significant increases in the price of many of the components in our products, which may have a negative impact on margins or sales volumes. Availability and cost of financing for our retailers or retail customers, particularly in our manufactured housing business, could continue to affect our sales volume. Our dealers, as well as retail buyers of our products, generally secure financing from third party lenders, which, in the case of manufactured housing, have been negatively affected by adverse loan experience. For example, Conseco, Associates, Chase and GreenPoint, which had been very important lenders for customers of our dealers in the 1990s, have withdrawn from the manufactured housing finance business. Reduced availability of such financing and higher interest rates have had, and continue to have, an adverse effect on the manufactured housing business and our housing sales. If third party financing were to become unavailable or were to be further restricted, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Availability of financing is dependent on the lending practices of financial institutions, financial markets, governmental policies and economic conditions, all of which are largely beyond our control. For example, floorplan lenders have tightened credit availability, Conseco and Deutsche have exited that business in the manufactured housing industry and Transamerica and Bombardier’s manufactured housing wholesale finance businesses have been acquired by General Electric Corp. In addition, quasi-governmental agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are important purchasers of loans from financial institutions, have tightened standards relating to the manufactured housing loans that they will buy. Most states classify manufactured homes as personal 17 property rather than real property for purposes of taxation and lien perfection. Interest rates for manufactured homes are generally higher and the terms of the loans shorter than for site-built homes. In the current environment, financing for the purchase of manufactured homes is often more difficult to obtain than conventional home mortgages. There can be no assurance that affordable wholesale or retail financing for either manufactured homes or recreational vehicles will be available on a widespread basis in the future. Our repurchase agreements with floorplan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries, we enter into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions pursuant to which we agree, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to these credit sources, to repurchase product at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12, 18 or 24 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, represents a financial expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a large number of manufactured homes or recreational vehicles in the future, this would increase our costs, which could have a negative effect on our earnings. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and consequent repurchase obligations on our part that may be higher than has historically been the case. During fiscal 2006, we repurchased 35 manufactured homes and 31 recreational vehicles at an aggregate gross purchase price of $2.1 million, incurring a loss upon resale of approximately $428,000, compared to repurchases during fiscal 2005 of 85 manufactured homes and 89 recreational vehicles at an aggregate purchase price of $6.3 million, and a loss upon resale of approximately $1.2 million. Our businesses are both cyclical and seasonal and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical, as well as seasonal, and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing shipments, retail sales and operating results, and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Companies within both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as economic, demographic and political changes. Factors affecting the manufactured housing industry include: · interest rates and the availability of financing for manufactured homes; · apartment vacancies and rents; · interest rates and terms of financing for site-built homes; · defaults by retail customers resulting in repossessions; · general economic conditions; · inventory levels; · availability of manufactured home sites; · commodity availability and prices; · unemployment trends; · international tensions and hostilities; and · consumer confidence. Factors affecting the recreational vehicle industry include: · overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; 18 · fuel availability and prices; · general economic conditions; · interest rates; · international tensions and hostilities; · inventory levels; · unemployment trends; and · commodity availability and prices. We cannot provide assurance that the factors that are currently adversely affecting our business will not continue to have an adverse effect in the future. We have also experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production and net income as a result of seasonality in our businesses. Demand for manufactured housing and, particularly, recreational vehicles, generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits in both industries are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may delay the timing of purchases and shipments from one quarter to another. If there is a rise in the frequency and size of product liability and other claims against us, including wrongful death, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving products liability and other claims, including wrongful death, against us related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our products liability claims and purchase excess products liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premiums that we are required to pay for insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which may not be covered by our insurance. We are also presently party to actions in litigation that the plaintiffs are seeking to have certified as class actions. If any of these actions is decided in a manner adverse to us, the resulting liability may be significant. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that is significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business will be harmed. When we introduce new products we may incur expenses that we did not anticipate, such as recall expenses, resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new models is critical to our future success, particularly in our recreational vehicle business. We have additional costs when we introduce new models, such as initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies, but we may also incur unexpected expenses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new product. In addition, we may make business decisions that include offering incentives to stimulate the sales of products not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or obsolete models. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Excess inventories of our products among retailers and housing repossessions may have a negative effect on our sales volume and profit margins. The level of manufactured housing and recreational vehicle retail inventories and the existence of repossessed homes in the market can have a significant impact on manufacturing shipments and operating results, as evidenced in the manufactured housing industry during the past five years. The continuing 19 deterioration in the availability of retail financing and competition from repossessed homes has extended the inventory adjustment period beyond what was originally expected. More liberal lending standards in the past resulted in loans to less-creditworthy customers, many of whom have defaulted on these loans. Lenders have repossessed the customers’ homes and resold them at prices significantly below the retail price of a new home, thereby increasing competition for manufacturers of new homes. This situation was exacerbated by the bankruptcy filings of Oakwood Homes and Conseco in 2003, which led both companies to sell large numbers of repossessed homes for cash at distressed prices at auctions or at wholesale, rather than to attempt to refinance the defaulted loans. These circumstances led to an increase in recent years in the number of available repossessed homes and to a further deterioration in the price of these homes. These factors appear to have stabilized; however, if they were to deteriorate once more, or if retail demand were to significantly weaken, the resulting inventory overhang could result in price competition and further pressure on profit margins within the industry and could have an adverse impact on our operating results. We may not be able to obtain financing in the future, and the terms of any future financings may limit our ability to manage our business. Difficulties in obtaining financing on favorable terms would have a negative effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. The recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries are highly competitive and some of our competitors have stronger balance sheets and cash flows, as well as greater access to capital, than we do. The relative strength of our competitors could result in decreased sales volume and earnings for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive. As of December 31, 2005, there were approximately 67 manufacturers of homes and fewer than 5,000 active retailers. Based on retail sales, the 10 largest manufacturers accounted for approximately 78 percent of the retail manufactured housing market in calendar 2005, including our sales, which represented 18.7 percent of the market. Competition with other housing manufacturers is based primarily on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, retail inventory, merchandising, and the terms and availability of wholesale and retail customer financing. Growth in manufacturing capacity during the 1990s increased competition at both the manufacturing and retail levels and resulted in both regional and national competitors increasing their presence in the markets in which we compete. Though manufacturing capacity has been curtailed since the late 1990s, overproduction of manufactured housing in these regions could lead to greater competition and result in decreased margins, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, manufactured homes compete with new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. The supply of such housing has increased in recent years with the still ample availability of construction financing and relatively attractive mortgage financing, reducing the demand for manufactured homes. Manufactured homes also compete with resales of homes that have been repossessed by financial institutions as a result of credit defaults by dealers or customers. Repossession rates for manufactured homes hit historic highs several years ago and although they have declined more recently, there can be no assurance that repossession rates will not rise again, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. The manufactured housing industry, as well as the site-built housing development industry, has experienced consolidation in recent years, which could result in the emergence of competitors, including developers of site-built homes that are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. For example, the large conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway has acquired two of our major competitors, Clayton Homes and Oakwood Homes. This combination could ultimately strengthen competition in the industry and adversely affect our business. 20 The recreational vehicle market is also highly competitive and it too has experienced some industry consolidation. Sales from the five largest manufacturers represented approximately 66 percent of the retail market in calendar 2005, including our sales, which represented 12.5 percent of the market. Competitive pressures, especially in the entry-level segment of the market for travel trailers, have resulted in a reduction of profit margins. Sustained increases in competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreational vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. Changes in consumer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs. We believe that historical consumer preferences for our products in general, and recreational vehicles in particular, are likely to change over time. We further believe that the introduction of new features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our recreational vehicle operations. Delays in the introduction of new models or product features, or a lack of market acceptance of new features, designs or models, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we may incur significant additional costs in designing or redesigning models that are not accepted in the marketplace. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in consumer preferences or our failure to properly gauge consumer preferences. We may also experience production difficulties, such as inefficiencies in purchasing and increased labor costs, as we introduce new models. We cannot be certain that new product introductions will not infringe on revenues from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that any of these new models or products will be introduced to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. We established a network of Company-owned retail stores that required significant restructuring and downsizing, but our efforts did not succeed in making it profitable. Our sale of the business in fiscal 2006 resulted in significant losses and restructuring charges, and fewer retail outlets. We have not yet fully replaced the distribution network. We responded to the retail consolidation in the manufactured housing sector, beginning in fiscal 1998, by forming our own retail business and establishing a network of Company-owned stores to replace distribution points lost to competitors. We made numerous acquisitions between June 1998 and August 2001. We also originated more than 100 locations. The combination of the two strategies carried us to a high of 244 stores in November 2000. Since its inception, this business segment operated at a loss, and as the retail market for manufactured housing slowed, the losses grew. Although we had reduced the number of stores that we operated to 135 at the time we sold a substantial part of the business, the stores still purchased 16 percent of our wholesale output. While 85 of these stores are still in operation as independent Fleetwood outlets, we have experienced a loss in sales. Despite our efforts to replace or augment certain of these distribution points, there is no assurance that we can successfully do so. The market for our manufactured homes is heavily concentrated in the southern part of the United States, and a continued decline in demand in that area could have a material negative effect on sales. The market for our manufactured homes is geographically concentrated, with the top 15 states accounting for over 65 percent of the industry’s total retail sales in calendar 2005. The southern and south central United States accounts for a significant portion of our manufactured housing sales. A downturn in economic conditions in these regions that is worse than that of other regions could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have experienced a decline in the demand for manufactured homes in recent years in the southern and south central United States, and there can be no assurance that the demand for manufactured homes will not continue to decline in those 21 regions or other areas in which we experience high product sales and any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Increased costs, including costs of component parts and labor, potentially impacted by changes in labor rates and practices, could reduce our operating income. Our results of operations may be significantly affected by the availability and pricing of manufacturing components and labor, as well as changes in labor practices. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of any cost escalation in components and labor costs by negotiating with current or new suppliers and by increasing productivity or, where necessary, by increasing the sales prices of our products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so without it having an adverse impact on the competitiveness of our products and, therefore, our sales volume. Changes in labor rates and practices, including changes resulting from union activity, could significantly affect our costs and thereby reduce our operating income. If we cannot successfully offset increases in our manufacturing costs, this could have a material adverse impact on our margins, operating income and cash flows. Even if we were able to offset higher manufacturing costs by increasing the sales prices of our products, the realization of any such increases often lags behind the rise in manufacturing costs, especially in our manufactured housing operations, due in part to our commitment to give our retailers price protection with respect to previously placed customer orders. We depend on a small group of suppliers for some of our components, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would decrease our sales or margins. Most recreational vehicle and manufactured home commodity components are readily available from a variety of sources. However, a few proprietary or specialty components are produced by a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to support our requirements on a national basis. Primarily, this situation occurs in the case of motor home chassis, where Spartan and Freightliner supply diesel-powered chassis, and Workhorse Custom Chassis and Ford Motor Company are the dominant suppliers of Class A gas chassis, and Ford Motor Company is the dominant supplier of Class C chassis. Shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our sales. If we cannot obtain an adequate chassis supply, this could result in a decrease in our sales and earnings. Changes in zoning regulations could affect the number of sites available for our manufactured homes, and zoning regulations could affect the market for our new products, both of which could affect our sales. Any limitation on the growth of the number of sites available for manufactured homes, or on the operation of manufactured housing communities, could adversely affect our sales. In addition, new product opportunities that we may wish to pursue for our manufactured housing business could cause us to encounter new zoning regulations and affect the potential market for these new products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, there has been resistance by property owners to the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, and we believe that this resistance has adversely affected the growth of the industry. The inability of the manufactured home industry to effect change in these zoning ordinances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and we cannot be certain that manufactured homes will receive more widespread acceptance or that additional localities will adopt zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes. Amendments of the regulations governing our businesses could have a material impact on our operations. Both our recreational vehicle and manufactured housing businesses are subject to extensive Federal and state regulations, including construction and safety standards for manufactured homes and safety and 22 consumer protection laws relating to recreational vehicles. Amendments to any of these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating or selling our products and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations. In addition, a major product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that further amendments and additional regulations will be applicable to us and our products in the future. Amendments to these and other tax laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations, including, for instance, changes that affect our ability to utilize our net operating losses, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of Federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup or capital expenditures. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock, and under the terms of the documents governing the Convertible Trust Preferred Securities, we have the right to defer payment of distributions on those securities. On October 31, 2001, we announced that we would discontinue the payment of dividends on our common stock after the previously declared dividend payment on November 14, 2001. On October 31, 2001, we also elected to defer distributions due to be made on November 15, 2001, on the 6% convertible trust preferred securities and we had subsequently elected to defer all succeeding quarterly distributions through November 15, 2005. We recommenced dividend payments on the trust preferred securities on February 16, 2006, but under the terms of these securities, we have the option to again defer payment of the distributions for a period of up to 20 consecutive quarters. The deferral of distributions on the 6% convertible trust preferred securities would prevent us from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock during the period of such deferrals. Although distributions on our 6% convertible trust preferred securities have resumed, any future resumption of payment of dividends on our common stock would be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and is not currently contemplated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 23 