Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors or potential investors in us should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations and hinder our financial performance. We have had significant losses in the last seven fiscal years and we may not be able to regain profitability in the foreseeable future. This could cause us to limit future capital expenditures and also increase the difficulty of implementing our business and finance strategies or meeting our obligations when due. We have had net losses in each year since fiscal 2001. Continued losses may reduce our liquidity and may cause us to reduce our expenditures on capital improvements, machinery and equipment, and research and development. This could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain production schedules, manufacture high-quality products, and develop and manufacture new products that will achieve market acceptance. This could, in turn, have a negative effect on our sales and earnings. If we continue to suffer losses, we could be unable to implement our business and financial strategies or meet our obligations when due. Our losses in recent fiscal years were caused primarily by the following conditions: · reduced demand in the manufactured housing and, during certain periods, recreational vehicle industries; · lack of competitive products in certain segments of the travel trailer market; · manufacturing complexities resulting from the introduction of new products, primarily in the travel trailer segment; · low utilization of capacity, particularly in our manufactured housing and travel trailer plants; · certain wholesale and retail lenders abandoning the manufactured housing market; · restrictive lending standards in the manufactured housing market by the remaining retail lenders; · relatively high interest rates for manufactured homes as opposed to site-built homes; · competition with resellers of repossessed manufactured homes; · variable economic conditions and diminished consumer confidence; · caution in potential motor home buyers, particularly first-time buyers, caused by high and volatile fuel prices; · our untimely entry into the manufactured housing retail business in the late 1990s; · excess retail inventories in manufactured housing in the early part of the decade; · overproduction of RVs during fiscal 2005, leading to excess finished goods inventories and increased retail inventories in our distribution network; and · lack of market acceptance of certain new products. We cannot provide assurance that the conditions that have resulted in our substantial losses since fiscal year 2001 will not continue in fiscal 2008 and beyond. Ongoing weakness in the manufactured housing market and more recent weakness in the recreational vehicle market may continue to reduce the demand for our products. The manufactured housing market has been in a prolonged slump that was initiated by undisciplined lending practices within the industry in the late 1990s, followed in recent years by tough competition from liberal financing of site-built homes. Default rates have fallen and inventories of repossessed homes have 13 returned to more acceptable levels for manufactured homes; however, there can be no assurance that the demand for manufactured housing will recover to what historically was considered more normal levels. Additionally, the effects from the fallout in the subprime mortgage sector are unclear at this time but depressed prices and an increased number of foreclosed-upon site-built homes could reduce demand for our products. In the last two years the recreational vehicle market has weakened in response to lower consumer confidence, volatile fuel prices, and higher interest rates. Ongoing weakness in these markets could limit our growth opportunities and have a negative effect on future sales and profitability. Global tensions and fuel shortages, higher prices for fuel, or rising interest rates could have a negative effect on consumer confidence and in turn diminish sales of our products, particularly recreational vehicles. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motor homes and vehicles used to tow travel trailers and folding trailers. Particularly in view of increased international tensions and increased global demand for oil, there can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed, or that the price of, or tax on, these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Increases in gasoline prices and speculation about potential fuel shortages, combined with rising interest rates, have had an unfavorable effect on consumer confidence in the past. As a result, these forces have caused a decline in demand for recreational vehicles from time to time, which then had an adverse effect on our sales volume. This pattern of events could happen again in the future. Increases in the price of oil can also result in significant increases in the price of many of the components in our products, which may have a negative effect on margins or sales volumes of those products. Availability and cost of financing for our retailers or retail customers, particularly in our manufactured housing business, could continue to reduce our sales. Our dealers, as well as retail buyers of our products, generally secure financing from independent lenders, which, in the case of manufactured housing, have been negatively affected by adverse loan experience. For example, Conseco, Associates, Chase and GreenPoint, each of which had been very important lenders for customers of our manufactured housing dealers in the 1990s, have withdrawn from the manufactured housing finance business. Reduced availability of such financing and higher interest rates have had, and continue to have, an adverse effect on the manufactured housing business and our housing sales. If this financing were to become unavailable or were to be further restricted, our results of operations would suffer. Availability of financing depends on the lending practices of financial institutions, financial markets, governmental policies, and economic conditions, all of which are largely beyond our control. For example, floorplan lenders have tightened credit availability, Conseco and Deutsche have exited that business in the manufactured housing industry, and General Electric has acquired Transamerica and Bombardier’s manufactured housing wholesale finance businesses, thereby reducing competition. In addition, quasi-governmental agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are important purchasers of loans from financial institutions, have tightened standards relating to the manufactured housing loans that they will buy. Most states classify manufactured homes as personal property rather than real property for purposes of taxation and lien perfection. As a result, interest rates for manufactured homes are generally higher and the terms of the loans shorter than for site-built homes. In the current environment, financing for the purchase of manufactured homes is often more difficult to obtain than conventional home mortgages. There can be no assurance that affordable wholesale or retail financing for either manufactured homes or recreational vehicles will be available on a widespread basis in the future. 14 We may be unable to comply in the future with financial tests and covenants in our senior secured credit facility, which could result in a default under that facility, in which event our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions that could restrict our ability to operate. In January 2007, we announced the early renewal and extension of our secured credit facility with Bank of America. If our liquidity and our operating results deteriorate significantly due to business or economic conditions, we could breach covenants under the amended and restated facility, resulting in a default. We amended the facility in May 2007 and reset a financial covenant that, in a period of reduced liquidity, could have led to a potential covenant breach. Under the amended senior secured facility agreement, we are subject to a financial performance covenant only if our average monthly liquidity, defined as cash, cash equivalents, and unused borrowing capacity, falls below $50 million for any calendar month, or $25 million on any one day, or average daily availability falls below $20 million in any month. Under these circumstances, we are required to meet a designated cumulative EBITDA requirement. A breach of the covenant could result in a default under this facility, as well as a cross-default in our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures and our capital lease obligations. In the event of a future default under our debt obligations, we cannot be certain that our lenders will agree to refrain from enforcing any remedies otherwise available to them or that they will grant us any further waivers or amend our covenants. Our credit facility ranks senior to the 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures and the 6% convertible subordinated debentures. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding the cash value of our company-owned life insurance and certain fixed assets, including some of our real property. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. A default under our senior secured facility could also cause a default under our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures. If we were unable to repay all outstanding balances, the lenders could proceed against our assets, and any proceeds realized upon the sale of assets would be used first to satisfy all amounts outstanding under our senior debt and, thereafter, any of our other liabilities, including liabilities relating to our convertible securities. Lender actions in the event of default might: · restrict our working capital and capital expenditures; · limit our ability to react to changes in market conditions due to a lack of resources to develop new products; · hamper the marketing of our products due to a lack of funds; · increase our risk of not surviving an extended downturn in our businesses compared to other competitors whose capital structures are less highly leveraged; · restrict our ability to merge with another company and to acquire or sell properties; and · cause us to seek protection from our creditors through bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise. We may not be able to obtain corporate financing in the future, and the terms of any future financings may limit our ability to manage our business. Difficulties in obtaining financing on favorable terms would have a negative effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. In addition to capital available under the senior secured credit facility, we anticipate that we may be required to seek additional capital in the future, including financing necessary to refinance or replace existing long-term debt or to fund capital expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future financings, if needed, on acceptable terms, if at all. 15 On July 21, 2006, Standard & Poor’s affirmed our corporate credit rating of B+ and, citing a modest improvement in operating profitability and an improved balance sheet and liquidity, revised their outlook for Fleetwood from negative to stable. Standard & Poor’s also reaffirmed its rating of B- on Fleetwood’s convertible senior subordinated debentures. At the same time, it raised its rating on our convertible trust preferred securities from D to CCC+, primarily as a result of our payment on February 15, 2006 of the accrued distributions on that security that had been previously deferred, as permitted by its terms. On September 11, 2006, Moody’s Investor Service lowered our Corporate Family Rating from B2 to B3 and affirmed the rating of Caa3 on our convertible trust preferred securities, as well as their negative outlook for Fleetwood. In lowering the corporate rating, Moody’s cited their expectation that demand in both our industries would remain weak through 2006 and their concern that our credit metrics and liquidity could continue to erode over the following six to nine months. Subsequently, on February 26, 2007, Standard & Poor’s lowered its corporate credit rating on Fleetwood from B+ to B. Concurrently, they also lowered their ratings on our convertible trust preferred securities from CCC+ to CCC and our convertible senior subordinated debentures from B- to CCC+. Standard & Poor’s indicated that their ratings actions reflected their expectation of near-term earnings pressure as a consequence of continued deterioration in the beleaguered manufactured housing industry, offsetting, in their opinion, relative stability in the recreational vehicle segment, lower absolute debt levels, and adequate liquidity as of the date of their announcement. If we are unable to obtain alternative or additional financing arrangements in the future, or if we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategies. Moreover, the terms of any such additional financing may restrict our financial flexibility, including the debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. Our businesses are both cyclical and seasonal and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical, as well as seasonal, and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing shipments, retail sales and operating results, and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Companies within both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as economic, demographic, and political changes. Factors affecting the manufactured housing industry include: · interest rates, tight credit standards, and the availability of financing for manufactured homes; · general economic conditions (consumer confidence, unemployment, etc.); · inventory levels of dealers; · interest rates and terms of financing for site-built homes; · commodity availability and prices; · availability of manufactured home sites; · defaults by retail customers resulting in repossessions; · apartment vacancies and rents; and · international tensions and hostilities. Factors affecting the recreational vehicle industry include: · overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; · fuel availability and prices; 16 · general economic conditions; · interest rates; · international tensions and hostilities; · manufacturer and dealer inventory levels; · unemployment trends; and · commodity availability and prices. We cannot provide assurance that the factors that are currently adversely affecting our businesses will not continue to have an adverse effect in the future. Our businesses are also seasonal, which can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production, and operating results as a result of seasonality in our businesses. Demand for manufactured housing and recreational vehicles generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits in both industries are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may delay the timing of purchases and shipments from one quarter to another. When we introduce new products or enter into new business segments, we may incur expenses or consume liquidity that we did not anticipate, such as recall expenses, resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new models is critical to our future success, particularly in our recreational vehicle business. Also, we have recently increased our exposure to the modular housing market. We have additional costs when we introduce new models or enter new business segments, such as initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies, but we may also incur unexpected expenses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new recreational vehicle product or cause a modular product not to be accepted by the customer. In addition, in new business segments, our lack of experience or expertise may cause us to price our products inappropriately given the risk or cost of the venture. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Excess retail inventories of our products, especially in the recreational vehicle industry, and housing repossessions may have a negative effect on our sales volume and profit margins. The level of manufactured housing and recreational vehicle retail inventories and the existence of repossessed homes in the market can have a significant effect on manufacturing shipments and operating results. Dealer inventory levels are currently high in the travel trailer industry and have affected wholesale shipment trends since the latter part of calendar 2006. The motor home industry experienced a similar pattern in 2005, although currently inventory levels appear to be consistent with retail demand. The manufactured housing industry experienced excess dealer inventories for a more extended period of time over the past several years. The continued limited availability of manufactured housing retail financing and competition from the resale of repossessed homes extended the inventory adjustment period beyond what was originally expected. More liberal lending standards in the past resulted in loans to less-creditworthy customers, many of whom have defaulted on these loans. Lenders have repossessed the customers’ homes and resold them at prices significantly below the retail price of a new home, thereby increasing competition for manufacturers of new homes. These factors in the manufactured housing industry appear to have stabilized; however, if they were to deteriorate once more, or if retail demand were to significantly weaken, the resulting inventory overhang could result in price competition and further pressure on profit margins within the industry and could have an adverse impact on our operating results. Recent difficulties in the subprime conventional housing mortgage industry could result in an increase in loan defaults and an 17 increase in the inventory of foreclosed-upon homes, which could reduce prices for those homes and, accordingly, negatively affect the market for manufactured homes and our operating results, at least in the short-term. The market price of our common stock has been volatile, and may decline again in the future. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in recent years and generally declined, from a closing price of $45.04 per share on March 6, 1998, to a low of $2.57 per share on August 9, 2002. In fiscal 2007, the high closing price was $10.13 and the low closing price was $6.50. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors that include: · actual and anticipated variations in our operating results; · general economic and financial market conditions; · actual and anticipated volatility in the price and availability of fuel; · changes in interest rates; · general conditions in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries, including changes in demand and inventory levels; · future issuances of our common stock, including issuances of common stock in connection with financing activities, conversion of the convertible trust preferred securities or convertible senior subordinated debentures, or the exercise of stock options, any of which could dilute our earnings per share and otherwise cause the market price of our common stock to decline; · perceptions of the strengths and weaknesses of the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries; · our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt or convertible trust preferred securities when due; · developments in our relationships with our lenders, customers, or suppliers; · announcements of alliances, mergers, or other relationships by or among our competitors, suppliers, or customers; · announcements and introductions of new products and models by us or our competitors and the success or failure of these new products and models; · failure to execute our strategic plans; · developments related to regulations, including zoning regulations that affect existing and potential sites for our manufactured homes and parks for RVs; · further changes in our corporate credit ratings or the ratings of specific securities; and · changes in our senior management. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the stock prices of companies in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries that may be unrelated to their operating performance or the performance of the companies within these industries. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 18 Our repurchase agreements with floorplan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries, we enter into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions pursuant to which we agree, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to these credit sources, to repurchase product at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12, 18 or 24 months. The difference between the repurchase price, plus any refurbishment costs, and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, represents a financial expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a large number of manufactured homes or recreational vehicles in the future, this would increase our costs, which could have a negative effect on our earnings. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and consequent repurchase obligations on our part that may be higher than has historically been the case. During fiscal 2007, we repurchased 57 manufactured homes and 39 recreational vehicles at an aggregate gross purchase price of $2.4 million, incurring a loss after resale of approximately $744,000, compared to repurchases during fiscal 2006 of 35 manufactured homes and 31 recreational vehicles at an aggregate purchase price of $2.1 million, and a loss after resale of approximately $428,000. If the frequency and size of product liability, wrongful death, and other claims against us increase, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving products liability and other claims, including wrongful death, against us related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our products liability claims and purchase excess products liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause our insurance premiums to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which our insurance may not cover. We are also presently party to actions in litigation that the plaintiffs are seeking to have certified as class actions. If any of these actions is decided in a manner adverse to us, the resulting liability may be significant. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that is significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business will likely be harmed. The recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries are highly competitive and some of our competitors have stronger balance sheets and cash flows, as well as greater access to capital, than we do. The relative strength of our competitors could result in lower sales volume and earnings for us, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The manufactured housing industry is highly competitive. As of December 31, 2006, there were approximately 67 manufacturers of homes and fewer than 5,000 active retailers. Based on retail sales, the 10 largest manufacturers accounted for approximately 79% of the retail manufactured housing market in calendar 2006, including our sales, which represented 15.5% of the market. Competition with other housing manufacturers is based primarily on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, retail inventory, merchandising, and the terms and availability of wholesale and retail customer financing. Growth in manufacturing capacity during the 1990s increased competition at both the manufacturing and retail levels and resulted in both regional and national competitors increasing their presence in the markets in which we compete. Though curtailed since the late 1990s, manufacturing capacity currently exceeds retail demand, and continued overcapacity of manufactured housing could lead to greater competition and result in decreased margins, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 In addition, manufactured homes compete with new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhouses and condominiums. With ample availability of construction financing and relatively attractive mortgage financing, the supply of such housing has increased in recent years, reducing the demand for manufactured homes. Manufactured homes also compete with resales of homes that have been repossessed by financial institutions as a result of credit defaults by dealers or customers. Repossession rates for conventional homes appear to be increasing in light of recent difficulties in the subprime mortgage market. Although repossession rates for manufactured homes have declined more recently after hitting historic highs several years ago, there can be no assurance that they will not rise again, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. The manufactured housing industry, as well as the site-built housing development industry, has experienced consolidation in recent years, which could result in the emergence of competitors, including developers of site-built homes that are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. For example, the large conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway has acquired two of our major housing competitors, Clayton Homes and Oakwood Homes, and one of our recreational vehicle competitors, Forest River. These combinations could ultimately strengthen competition in both industries and adversely affect our business. As noted, the recreational vehicle market is also highly competitive and it too has experienced some industry consolidation, as evidenced by the purchase of CrossRoads RV by Thor Industries, Inc. and Monaco Coach Corporation’s acquisition of R-Vision. Sales from the five largest manufacturers represented approximately 66% of the retail market in calendar 2006, including our sales, which represented 10.9% of the market. Competitive pressures, especially in the entry-level segment of the market for travel trailers, have resulted in a reduction of profit margins. Sustained increases in competitive pressures could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreational vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. Changes in consumer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs. Consumer preferences for our products in general, and recreational vehicles in particular, are likely to change over time. We believe that the introduction of new features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our recreational vehicle operations. Delays in the introduction of new models or product features, or a lack of market acceptance of new features, designs, or models, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we may incur significant additional costs in designing or redesigning models that are not accepted in the marketplace. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in consumer preferences or our failure to properly gauge consumer preferences. We may also experience production difficulties, such as inefficiencies in purchasing and increased labor costs, as we introduce new models. We cannot be certain that our new products will not infringe on revenues from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will introduce any of these new models or products to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. We have offered and expect to continue to offer financial incentives from time to time that can negatively affect our operating results. We may make business decisions that include offering incentives to stimulate the sales of products not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or obsolete models. These incentives are accounted for as a reduction of net sales and reduce our operating results. 20 We established a network of company-owned retail stores that we later sold because it was not profitable. We have not yet fully replaced the distribution network. We responded to the retail consolidation in the manufactured housing sector, beginning in fiscal 1998, by forming our own retail business and establishing a network of company-owned stores to replace distribution points lost to competitors. We made numerous acquisitions between June 1998 and August 2001. We also established more than 100 new retail locations. The combination of the two strategies carried us to a high of 244 stores in November 2000. From its inception, this business segment operated at a loss, and as the retail market for manufactured housing slowed, the losses grew. Although we had reduced the number of stores that we operated to 135 at the time we sold a substantial part of the business, the stores still purchased 16% of our wholesale output. While approximately half of these stores are still in operation as independent Fleetwood outlets, we have experienced a significant loss in sales to those stores. Despite our efforts to replace or augment certain of these distribution points, there is no assurance that we can successfully do so. The market for our manufactured homes is heavily concentrated in the southern part of the United States, especially in Florida and California, and a continued decline in demand in those areas could have a material negative effect on sales. The market for our manufactured homes is geographically concentrated, with the top 15 states accounting for 75% of our retail sales in calendar 2006. The southern, southwest and south central United States and California account for a significant portion of our manufactured housing sales, with Florida and California markets alone accounting for 30% of sales. A downturn in economic conditions in these regions that is worse than that of other regions could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our results of operations. We had experienced a decline in the demand for manufactured homes in recent years in the southern and south central United States, and a steep decline recently in Florida and California. There can be no assurance that the demand for manufactured homes will not continue to decline in those regions or other areas in which we experience high product sales resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. Increased costs, including costs of component parts and labor, potentially affected by changes in labor rates and practices, could reduce our operating income. The availability and pricing of manufacturing components and labor, as well as changes in labor practices, may significantly affect our results of operations. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of any cost escalation in components and labor costs by negotiating with current or new suppliers and by increasing productivity or, where necessary, by increasing the sales prices of our products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so without it having an adverse impact on the competitiveness of our products and, therefore, our sales volume. Changes in labor rates and practices, including changes resulting from union activity, could significantly affect our costs and thereby reduce our operating income. Any failure to offset increases in our manufacturing costs could have an adverse effect on our margins, operating income, and cash flows. Even if we were able to offset higher manufacturing costs by increasing the sales prices of our products, the realization of any such increases often lags behind the rise in manufacturing costs, especially in our manufactured housing operations, due in part to our commitment to give our retailers price protection with respect to previously placed customer orders. We depend on a small group of suppliers for some of our components, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would lower our sales and profit margins. Most of the materials purchased for our core products are commodity type items and are readily available from multiple sources. Several of our recreational vehicle components, however, are specialty 21 tooled proprietary parts that are single sourced from national suppliers. Although we own the tooling for those parts and could relocate the production, that relocation could lead to higher prices for the parts and delays in production. Motor home chassis are only available from a limited number of suppliers and often need to be ordered well in advance of delivery. Spartan and Freightliner supply diesel-powered chassis, and Workhorse Custom Chassis and Ford Motor Company are the dominant suppliers for the Class A and Class C gas chassis. Shortages, production delays, or work stoppages by any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our sales. If we could not obtain an adequate chassis supply, our sales and earnings would suffer. Zoning regulations affect the number of sites available for our manufactured homes, which in turn can affect our sales. Any limitation on the growth of the number of sites available for manufactured homes, or on the operation of manufactured housing communities, could adversely affect our sales. In addition, new product opportunities that we may wish to pursue for our manufactured housing business could cause us to encounter new zoning regulations and affect the potential market for these new products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, property owners have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, and we believe that this resistance has adversely affected the growth of the industry. The inability of the manufactured home industry to change these zoning ordinances could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and we cannot be certain that manufactured homes will receive more widespread acceptance or that additional localities will adopt zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes. Amendments of the regulations governing our businesses could have a material effect on our operations. Both our recreational vehicle and manufactured housing businesses are subject to extensive federal and state regulations, including construction and safety standards for manufactured homes and safety and consumer protection laws relating to recreational vehicles. Amendments to any of these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating, or selling our products and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations. In addition, a major product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that further amendments and additional regulations will apply to us and to our products in the future. Amendments to these and other tax laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations, including, for instance, changes that affect our ability to utilize our net operating losses, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup, or capital expenditures. 22 Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Because we do not currently pay dividends on our common stock, we have the right to defer payment of distributions on the convertible trust preferred securities. On October 31, 2001, we announced that we would discontinue the payment of dividends on our common stock after the previously declared dividend payment on November 14, 2001. On October 31, 2001, we also elected to defer distributions that were due to be made on November 15, 2001 on the 6% convertible trust preferred securities. Subsequently, we elected to defer all succeeding quarterly distributions through November 15, 2005. On February 15, 2006, we paid the cumulative deferred distributions, plus interest, and resumed the regular payment of quarterly distributions on the trust preferred securities on February 16, 2006. Under the terms of these securities, however, we have the option to again defer payment of the distributions for a period of up to 20 consecutive quarters. If we defer making distributions on the 6% convertible trust preferred securities, we cannot declare or pay any dividends on our common stock during the deferral period. Although we have resumed making distributions on the 6% convertible trust preferred securities, our board of directors does not currently contemplate paying dividends on our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 23 