Item 1A. Risk Factors Investors or potential investors in us should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations and hinder our financial performance. We have had significant losses over the last eight fiscal years and we may not be able to regain consistent profitability in the foreseeable future. This could cause us to limit future capital expenditures and also increase the difficulty of implementing our business and finance strategies or meeting our obligations when due. We have reported a net loss in each fiscal year since 2001, including a modest net loss in fiscal 2008. A failure to achieve consistent profitability may reduce our liquidity and may cause us to reduce our expenditures on capital improvements, machinery and equipment, and research and development. This could have a negative effect on our ability to maintain production schedules, manufacture high-quality products, and develop and manufacture new products that will achieve market acceptance. This could, in turn, have a negative effect on our sales and earnings. If we continue to suffer losses, we could be unable to implement our business and financial strategies or meet our obligations when due. Our losses in recent fiscal years were caused primarily by the following conditions: •reduced demand in the manufactured housing and, during certain periods, recreational vehicle industries; •lack of competitive products in certain segments of the travel trailer market; •manufacturing complexities resulting from the introduction of new products, primarily in the travel trailer segment; •interest payments on convertible debentures which we issued in 1998 and 2003; •low utilization of capacity, particularly in our manufactured housing and travel trailer plants; •certain wholesale and retail lenders abandoning the manufactured housing market; •restrictive lending standards in the manufactured housing market by the remaining retail lenders; •relatively high interest rates for manufactured homes as opposed to site-built homes; •reduced ability, particularly for recreational vehicle buyers, to borrow all or part of the purchase price against their home equity; •competition with resellers of repossessed manufactured homes; •competition from site-built homes purchased using plentiful sources of mortgage financing available on favorable terms; •variable economic conditions and diminished consumer confidence; •caution in potential motor home buyers, particularly first-time buyers, caused by high and volatile fuel prices; •our untimely entry into the manufactured housing retail business in the late 1990s; •excess retail inventories in manufactured housing in the early part of the decade; •overproduction of RVs at certain times, leading to excess finished goods inventories and increased retail inventories in our distribution network; and •lack of market acceptance of certain new products. 13 We cannot provide assurance that the conditions that have resulted in substantial losses since fiscal year 2001 will not continue in fiscal 2009 and beyond. Recent weakness in the recreational vehicle market and ongoing weakness in the manufactured housing market may continue to reduce the demand for our products. In the last two years, the recreational vehicle market has weakened in response to lower consumer confidence, volatile fuel prices, and higher interest rates. In recent months record fuel prices have seriously exacerbated the intermediate-term challenges for that market. The manufactured housing market has been in a prolonged slump that was initiated by undisciplined lending practices within the industry in the late 1990s, followed in recent years by tough competition from liberal financing of site-built homes. Default rates have fallen and inventories of repossessed homes have returned to more acceptable levels for manufactured homes; however, there can be no assurance that the demand for manufactured housing will recover to what historically was considered more normal levels. Additionally, the long-term effects from the fallout in the subprime mortgage sector remain unclear at this time but depressed prices and an increased number of foreclosures of site-built homes could reduce demand for our products. Ongoing weakness in both our principal industries would limit our growth opportunities and have a negative effect on future sales and profitability. Global tensions and fuel shortages, higher prices for fuel and rising interest rates have a negative effect on consumer confidence and in turn diminish sales of our products, particularly recreational vehicles. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motor homes and vehicles used to tow travel trailers. Prices for these petroleum products have risen recently and, particularly in view of increased international tensions and increased global demand for oil, there can be no assurance that the supply of these products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed, or that the price of, or tax on, these products will not significantly increase in the future. Increases in gasoline prices and speculation about potential fuel shortages, combined with rising interest rates, have had an unfavorable effect on consumer confidence in the past. As a result, these forces have caused a decline in demand for recreational vehicles from time to time, which then had an adverse effect on our sales volume. This pattern of events has occurred recently and could happen again in the future. Increases in the price of oil can also result in significant increases in the price of many of the components in our products, which may have a negative effect on margins or sales volumes of those products. Availability and cost of financing for our retailers or retail customers, particularly in our manufactured housing business, could continue to constrain our sales. Our dealers, as well as retail buyers of our products, generally secure financing from independent lenders, which, in the case of manufactured housing, have been negatively affected by adverse loan experience. For example, several national retail and wholesale lenders have withdrawn from the manufactured housing finance business in recent years, and a finance division of General Electric Credit Corp. recently withdrew from retail lending on most recreational vehicles and other leisure products. Reduced availability of such financing and higher interest rates have had, and continue to have, an adverse effect on the manufactured housing business and our housing sales. If this financing were to become unavailable or were to be further restricted, our results of operations would suffer. Availability of financing depends on the lending practices of financial institutions, financial markets, governmental policies, and economic conditions, all of which are largely beyond our control. For example, floorplan lenders have tightened credit availability, Conseco and Deutsche exited that business in the manufactured housing industry, and General Electric acquired Transamerica and Bombardier's manufactured housing wholesale finance businesses, thereby reducing competition. In addition, quasigovernmental agencies such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are important purchasers of loans from financial institutions, have tightened standards relating to the manufactured housing loans that they will buy. Most states classify manufactured 14 homes as personal property rather than real property for purposes of taxation and lien perfection. As a result, interest rates for manufactured homes are generally higher and the terms of the loans shorter than for site-built homes. In the current environment, financing for the purchase of manufactured homes is often more difficult to obtain than conventional home mortgages. In the RV business, access to home equity to help finance purchases has become more difficult for retail buyers, and a continuation of depressed real estate prices and stringent home equity lending will further reduce recreational vehicle sales in the future. There can be no assurance that affordable wholesale or retail financing for either manufactured homes or recreational vehicles will be available on a widespread basis in the future. We may be unable to comply in the future with financial tests and covenants in our senior secured credit facility, which could result in a default under that facility, in which event our lenders could accelerate our debt or take other actions that could restrict our ability to operate. In January 2007, we announced the early renewal and extension of our secured credit facility with Bank of America. If our liquidity and our operating results deteriorate significantly due to business or economic conditions, we could breach covenants under the amended and restated facility, resulting in a default. We have amended the facility on several occasions since we first entered into it in 2001 to reset financial requirements that could have led to potential covenant breaches. Under the amended senior secured facility agreement, we are subject to a financial performance covenant only if our average monthly liquidity, defined as cash, cash equivalents, and unused borrowing capacity, falls below $50 million for any calendar month or $25 million on any one day, or average daily availability falls below $20 million in any month. Under these circumstances, we are required to meet a designated fixed charge coverage ratio. A breach of the covenant could result in a default under this facility, as well as a cross-default in our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures and our capital lease obligations. In the event of a future default under our debt obligations, we cannot be certain that our lenders will agree to refrain from enforcing any remedies otherwise available to them or that they will grant us any further waivers or amend our covenants. Our credit facility ranks senior to the 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures and the 6% convertible subordinated debentures. Our credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets, excluding the cash value of our company-owned life insurance and certain fixed assets, including some of our real property. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the facility, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. A default under our senior secured facility could also cause a default under our 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures. If we were unable to repay all outstanding balances, the lenders could proceed against our assets, and any proceeds realized upon the sale of assets would be used first to satisfy all amounts outstanding under our senior debt and, thereafter, any of our other liabilities, including liabilities relating to our convertible securities. Lender actions in the event of default might: •restrict our use of working capital and ability to make capital expenditures; •limit our ability to react to changes in market conditions due to a lack of resources to develop new products; •hamper the marketing of our products due to a lack of funds; •increase our risk of not surviving an extended downturn in our businesses compared to other competitors whose capital structures are less highly leveraged; •restrict our ability to merge with another company and to acquire, sell, or lease properties; and •cause us to seek protection from our creditors through bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise. 15 We may not be able to obtain corporate financing in the future, and the terms of any future financings may limit our ability to manage our business. Difficulties in obtaining financing on favorable terms would have a negative effect on our ability to execute our business strategy, and could cause dilution to our shareholders. In addition to capital available under the senior secured credit facility, we anticipate that we may be required to seek additional capital in the future, including financing necessary to refinance or replace existing long-term or convertible debt or to fund capital expenditures. In particular, we anticipate that we will need to meet the repayment terms of our outstanding $100 million aggregate principal amount of 5% convertible senior subordinated debentures. The holders of those debentures have the right to put them to us for repurchase on December 15, 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future financings, if needed, on acceptable terms, if at all, and the terms of any equity financings that we might undertake could cause dilution to our existing shareholders. On January 29, 2008, Moody's Investor Service lowered our corporate family credit rating from B3 to Caa1 and reaffirmed the rating of Caa3 on our convertible trust preferred securities, as well as their negative outlook for Fleetwood. In lowering the corporate rating, Moody's acknowledged that we had made notable progress in restructuring, reducing capacity, and lowering costs but noted that the benefits of these initiatives had been more than offset by weaker overall demand in both the RV and manufactured housing industries. They also cited their expectation that market pressure in both industries was likely to increase as a result of the slowdown in the US economy and a contraction in availability of credit to support retail purchases of our products. Moody's also commented that the likely requirement for us to redeem $100 million of senior subordinated debentures in December 2008 for cash or stock could put a strain on liquidity and/or the price of our stock. On March 14, 2008, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services lowered our corporate credit rating from B to CCC+. Concurrently, they also lowered their ratings on our convertible trust preferred securities from CCC to CC and our convertible senior subordinated debentures from CCC+ to CCC- and reaffirmed a negative outlook for us. They indicated that their ratings actions stemmed from concerns about ongoing losses, a more highly-leveraged balance sheet due to declining equity and potential near-term liquidity challenges related to the put option on our $100 million of senior subordinated debentures. They also cited unfavorable economic conditions, restricted financing, and low consumer sentiment as underlying reasons for the rating action. Subsequently, on May 22, 2008, Standard & Poor's further reduced the rating on our convertible trust preferred securities from CC to D as a consequence of our decision to defer the May 15, 2008 distribution on them. They also reaffirmed their negative outlook for us. If we are unable to obtain alternative or additional financing arrangements in the future, or if we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategies. Moreover, the terms of any such additional financing may restrict our financial flexibility, including the debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. Our businesses are both cyclical and seasonal and this can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. The industries in which we operate are highly cyclical, as well as seasonal, and there can be substantial fluctuations in our manufacturing shipments, retail sales, and operating results, and the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Companies within both the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as economic, demographic, and political changes. Factors affecting the manufactured housing industry include: •interest rates, tight credit standards, and the availability of financing for manufactured homes; •general economic conditions (including consumer confidence, unemployment, inflation and interest rates); •inventory levels of dealers; 16 •interest rates and terms of financing for site-built homes; •availability and prices of commodities; •availability of manufactured home sites; •defaults by retail customers resulting in repossessions; •apartment vacancies and rents; and •international tensions and hostilities. Factors affecting the recreational vehicle industry include: •overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; •fuel availability and prices; •general economic conditions; •interest rates and availability of financing; •international tensions and hostilities; •manufacturer and dealer inventory levels; •unemployment trends; and •availability and prices of commodities. We cannot provide assurance that the factors that are currently adversely affecting our businesses will not continue to have an adverse effect in the future. Our businesses are also seasonal, which can lead to fluctuations in our operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant variability in sales, production, and operating results as a result of seasonality in our businesses. Demand for manufactured housing and recreational vehicles generally declines during the winter season, while sales and profits in both industries are generally highest during the spring and summer months. In addition, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may delay the timing of purchases and shipments from one quarter to another. When we introduce new products or enter into new business segments, we may incur expenses or consume liquidity for reasons that we did not anticipate, such as recall expenses, resulting in reduced earnings. The introduction of new models is critical to our future success, particularly in our recreational vehicle business. Also, we have recently increased our exposure to the modular housing market. We have additional costs when we introduce new models or enter new business segments, such as initial labor or purchasing inefficiencies, but we may also incur unexpected expenses. For example, we may experience unexpected engineering or design flaws that will force a recall of a new recreational vehicle product or cause a modular product not to be accepted by the customer. In addition, in new business segments, our lack of experience or expertise may cause us to price our products inappropriately given the risk or cost of the venture. The costs resulting from these types of problems could be substantial and have a significant adverse effect on our earnings. Excess retail inventories of our products, especially in the recreational vehicle industry, and housing repossessions and foreclosures may have a negative effect on our sales volume and profit margins. The level of manufactured housing and recreational vehicle retail inventories and the existence of repossessed homes in the market can have a significant effect on manufacturing shipments and operating results. Motor home dealer inventory levels were high in 2005, but have stabilized after three years of inventory correction. The travel trailer industry inventories were also high, but wholesale shipment trends 17 since the latter part of 2006, as evidenced by dealers drawing down inventories to reflect reduced current and anticipated retail sales, have resulted in a lowering of inventories to fit current market conditions. The manufactured housing industry experienced excess dealer inventories for a more extended period of time over the past several years. The continued limited availability of manufactured housing retail financing and competition from the resale of a large number of repossessed homes due to liberal lending standards several years ago extended the inventory adjustment period beyond what was originally expected. These factors in the manufactured housing industry appear to have stabilized; however, recent difficulties in the subprime conventional housing mortgage industry have resulted in an increase in loan defaults and an increase in the inventory of foreclosed homes, which has reduced prices for those homes and, accordingly, is likely to negatively affect the market for manufactured homes and our operating results, at least in the short-term. Our repurchase agreements with floorplan lenders could result in increased costs. In accordance with customary practice in the manufactured housing and recreational vehicle industries, we enter into repurchase agreements with various financial institutions pursuant to which we agree, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to these credit sources, to repurchase product at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12, 18 or 24 months. The difference between the repurchase price, plus any refurbishment costs, and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, represents a financial expense to us. Thus, if we were required to repurchase a large number of manufactured homes or recreational vehicles in the future, this could decrease our sales and increase our costs, which could have a negative effect on our earnings and working capital. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and consequent repurchase obligations on our part that may be higher than has historically been the case. During fiscal 2008, we repurchased 65 manufactured homes and 94 recreational vehicles at an aggregate gross purchase price of $4.8 million, incurring a loss after resale of approximately $730,000, compared to repurchases during fiscal 2007 of 57 manufactured homes and 39 recreational vehicles at an aggregate purchase price of $2.4 million, and a loss after resale of approximately $744,000. If the frequency and size of product liability, wrongful death, and other claims against us should increase, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. We are frequently subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation involving products liability and other claims, including wrongful death, against us related to personal injury and warranties. We partially self-insure our products liability claims and purchase excess products liability insurance in the commercial insurance market. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause our insurance premiums to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, which our insurance may not cover. We are also presently party to actions in litigation that the plaintiffs are seeking to have certified as class actions. If any of these actions is decided in a manner adverse to us, the resulting liability may be significant. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that is significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business will likely be harmed. 18 The recreational vehicle and manufactured housing industries are highly competitive and some of our competitors have stronger balance sheets and cash flows, as well as greater access to capital, than we do. The relative strength of our competitors could result in lower sales volume for us, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The recreational vehicle market is highly competitive and has experienced some industry consolidation in recent years. Sales from the five largest manufacturers represented approximately 64% of the retail market in calendar 2007, including our sales, which represented 7.6% of the market. Competitive pressures, especially in the entry-level segment of the market for travel trailers, have resulted in a reduction of profit margins. Sustained increases in competitive pressures could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreational vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. The manufactured housing industry is also highly competitive. As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately 65 manufacturers of homes and fewer than 5,000 active retailers. Based on retail sales, the 10 largest manufacturers accounted for approximately 77% of the retail manufactured housing market in calendar 2007, including our sales, which represented 13.8% of the market. Competition with other housing manufacturers is based primarily on price, product features, reputation for service and quality, retail inventory, merchandising, and the terms and availability of wholesale and retail customer financing. Manufacturing capacity currently exceeds retail demand, and continued overcapacity of manufactured housing could lead to greater competition and result in decreased margins, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, manufactured homes compete with new and existing site-built homes, apartments, townhouses, and condominiums. With ample availability of construction financing in recent years and the relative ease of securing mortgage financing as a result of low lending standards, interest in such housing increased, reducing the demand for manufactured homes. Manufactured homes also compete with resales of homes that have been repossessed by financial institutions as a result of credit defaults by dealers or customers. Repossession rates for conventional homes are increasing in light of recent difficulties in the subprime mortgage market. Although repossession rates for manufactured homes have declined more recently after hitting historic highs several years ago, there can be no assurance that they will not rise again, thereby adversely affecting our sales volume and profit margins. The manufactured housing industry, as well as the site-built housing development industry, has experienced consolidation in recent years, which could result in the emergence of competitors, including developers of site-built homes that are larger than we are and have greater financial resources than we have. For example, the large conglomerate Berkshire Hathaway has acquired two of our major housing competitors, Clayton Homes and Oakwood Homes, and one of our recreational vehicle competitors, Forest River. These combinations could ultimately strengthen competition in both industries and adversely affect our business. Changes in consumer preferences for our products or our failure to gauge those preferences could lead to reduced sales and additional costs. Consumer preferences for our products in general, and recreational vehicles in particular, are likely to change over time. We believe that the introduction of new features, designs and models will be critical to the future success of our recreational vehicle operations. Delays in the introduction of new models or product features, or a lack of market acceptance of new features, designs, or models, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, we may incur significant additional costs in designing or redesigning models that are not accepted in the marketplace. Products may not be accepted for a number of reasons, including changes in consumer preferences or our failure to properly gauge consumer 19 preferences. We may also experience production difficulties, such as inefficiencies in purchasing and increased labor costs, as we introduce new models. We cannot be certain that our new products will not infringe on revenues from existing models and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will introduce any of these new models or products to the market on time or that they will be successful when introduced. We have offered and expect to continue to offer financial incentives from time to time that can negatively affect our operating results. We may make business decisions that include offering incentives to stimulate the sales of products not adequately accepted by the market, or to stimulate sales of older or obsolete models. These incentives are accounted for as a reduction of net sales and reduce our operating results. The market for our manufactured homes is heavily concentrated in the southern and western parts of the United States, especially in Florida and California, and a continued decline in demand in those areas could have a material negative effect on sales. The market for our manufactured homes is geographically concentrated, with the top 15 states in volume accounting for 75% of our retail sales in calendar 2007. California and the southern, southwest and south central United States account for a significant portion of our manufactured housing sales, with the Texas, Florida and California markets alone accounting for 40% of sales. A downturn in economic conditions in these regions that is worse than that of other regions could have a disproportionately material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have experienced a steep decline in the demand for manufactured homes in recent years in Florida, California, and Arizona. There can be no assurance that the demand for manufactured homes will not continue to decline in those regions or other areas in which we experience high product sales, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations. Increased costs, including costs of component parts and labor, potentially affected by changes in labor rates and practices, could reduce our operating income. The availability and pricing of manufacturing components, including commodities and labor, as well as changes in labor practices, may significantly affect our results of operations. Although we attempt to mitigate the effect of any cost escalation in components and labor costs by negotiating with current or new suppliers and by increasing productivity or, where necessary, by increasing the sales prices of our products, we cannot be certain that we will be able to do so without it having an adverse impact on the competitiveness of our products and, therefore, our sales volume. Changes in labor rates and practices, including changes resulting from union activity, could significantly affect our costs and thereby reduce our operating income. Any failure to offset increases in our manufacturing costs could have an adverse effect on our margins, operating income, and cash flows. Even if we were able to offset higher manufacturing costs by increasing the sales prices of our products, the realization of any such increases often lags behind the rise in manufacturing costs, especially in our manufactured housing operations, due in part to our commitment to give our retailers price protection with respect to previously placed customer orders. We depend on a small group of suppliers for some of our components, and the loss of any of these suppliers could affect our ability to obtain components at competitive prices, which would lower our sales and profit margins. Most of the materials purchased for our core products are commodity type items and are readily available from multiple sources. Several of our recreational vehicle components, however, are specialty tooled proprietary parts that are single sourced from national suppliers. Although we own the tooling for those parts and could relocate the production, that relocation could lead to higher prices for the parts and delays in production. Motor home chassis are only available from a limited number of suppliers and often need to be ordered well in advance of delivery. Spartan and Freightliner supply diesel-powered chassis, 20 Workhorse Custom Chassis and Ford Motor Company are the dominant suppliers for the Class A and Class C gas chassis, and Chrysler supplies Class C diesel chassis. Shortages, production delays, or work stoppages by any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our sales. If we could not obtain an adequate chassis supply, our sales and earnings would suffer. Zoning regulations affect the number of sites available for our manufactured homes, which in turn can affect our sales. Any limitation on the growth of the number of sites available for manufactured homes, or on the operation of manufactured housing communities, could adversely affect our sales. In addition, new product opportunities that we may wish to pursue for our manufactured housing business could cause us to encounter new zoning regulations and affect the potential market for these new products. Manufactured housing communities and individual home placements are subject to local zoning ordinances and other local regulations relating to utility service and construction of roadways. In the past, property owners have resisted the adoption of zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes in residential areas, and we believe that this resistance has adversely affected the growth of the industry. The inability of the manufactured home industry to change these zoning ordinances could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and we cannot be certain that manufactured homes will receive more widespread acceptance or that additional localities will adopt zoning ordinances permitting the location of manufactured homes. Amendments of the regulations governing our businesses could have a material effect on our operations. Both our recreational vehicle and manufactured housing businesses are subject to extensive federal and state regulations, including construction and safety standards for manufactured homes and safety and consumer protection laws relating to recreational vehicles. Amendments to any of these regulations and the implementation of new regulations could significantly increase the costs of manufacturing, purchasing, operating, or selling our products and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Recently, for example, there have been suggestions in Congressional hearings that the Congress and regulators may seek to impose more stringent laws and regulations regarding the use of products containing formaldehyde, a substance found in numerous building materials, furniture, carpets and curtains, etc. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of sales or production, or cessation of operations. In addition, a major product recall could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Certain U.S. tax laws currently afford favorable tax treatment for the purchase and sale of recreational vehicles that are used as the equivalent of second homes. These laws and regulations have historically been amended frequently, and it is likely that further amendments and additional regulations will apply to us and to our products in the future. Amendments to these and other tax laws and regulations and the implementation of new regulations, including, for instance, changes that affect our ability to utilize our net operating losses, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal and state environmental regulations relating to noise pollution and the use, generation, storage, treatment, emission, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental regulations, our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines, potential civil and criminal liability, suspension of production or operations, alterations to the manufacturing process, costly cleanup, or capital expenditures. 21 Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate annually the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, and report on, management's assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented, or amended from time to time, we can make no assurance that we will be able to conclude in the future that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we fail to maintain a system of effective internal controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are not currently paying dividends on our common stock, and we are deferring payment of distributions on our convertible trust preferred securities. In 2001 we discontinued the payment of dividends on our common stock and temporarily deferred distributions on our 6% convertible trust preferred securities before repaying them in full in February 2006. In April 2008, we again elected to defer payment of the distributions on the convertible trust preferred securities, the terms of which provide for the option to defer distributions for a period of up to 20 consecutive quarters. During the period wherein, we are deferring distributions on the 6% convertible trust preferred securities, we cannot declare or pay any dividends on our common stock. Even after we resume making distributions on the 6% convertible trust preferred securities, our board of directors does not currently contemplate paying dividends on our common stock and may not for the foreseeable future. The utilization of our substantial net operating loss carryforward may, under certain circumstances, be subject to limitations which would reduce profits by increasing tax expense. At April 27, 2008, Fleetwood had a domestic Federal net operating loss carryforward of approximately $375 million. Companies are subject to a change of ownership test that, if met, would limit the annual utilization of the carryforward. The change of ownership test can be triggered over time by the cumulative effect of certain significant shareholders buying and selling Fleetwood stock, and is therefore outside our control. If the test is met, our ability to apply the net operating loss carryforward to future income could be limited, and we could therefore suffer higher-than-anticipated tax expense, and consequently lower net income, in those future years. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 22 