ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements that may be affected by several risk factors. The following information summarizes all material risks known to us as of the date of filing this report: Risks Relating to Our Company We have incurred substantial losses since our inception in 1979 and may never be profitable. Since our inception in 1979, we have never been profitable. As of December 31, 2012, our accumulated deficit was approximately $460 million, including certain non-cash expenses. In the future, our ability to become profitable will depend on the profitability of the San José Mine, our ability to bring the El Gallo Complex and our Gold Bar project into production and generate revenue sufficient to cover our costs and expenses, and our ability to advance or sell our other properties, including the Los Azules copper project. In pursuit of that objective, we will seek to identify additional mineralization that can be extracted economically at operating and exploration properties. For our non-operating properties that we believe demonstrate economic potential, we need to either develop our properties, locate and enter into agreements with third party operators, or sell the properties. We may suffer significant additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The feasibility of mining at our El Gallo Complex and Gold Bar properties has not been established in accordance with SEC Guide 7, and any funds spent by us on exploration and development could be lost. We have no proven or probable reserves on our properties as defined by U.S. law, except for the Company's 49% interest in the San José Mine. A "reserve," as defined by regulation of the SEC, is that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. A reserve requires a SEC compliant feasibility study demonstrating with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically extracted and produced. Since we have not received a SEC compliant feasibility study on any of our properties, we currently have no reserves defined by SEC Guide 7, except for the Company's 49% interest in the San José Mine, and there are no assurances that we will be able to prove that there are reserves on our properties. The mineralized material identified on our properties, including El Gallo Phase 1 where we are currently in production, does not and may never demonstrate economic viability. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling and additional study and there is no assurance that reserves will be established. The feasibility of mining on our El Gallo Complex, Gold Bar properties, or any other property has not been, and may never be, established. Whether a mineral 11 Table of Contents deposit can be commercially viable depends upon a number of factors, including the particular attributes of the deposit, including size, grade, metallurgical recoveries and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which can be highly variable; and government regulations, including environmental and reclamation obligations. If we are unable to establish some or all of our mineralized material as proven or probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations, our investment in that property may be lost, and the market value of our securities may suffer. We are required to prepare and file with the Canadian securities regulators estimates of mineralized material in accordance with NI 43-101. These standards are substantially different from the standards generally permitted to report reserve and other estimates in reports and other materials filed with the SEC. Under NI 43-101, we report measured, indicated and inferred resources, measurements which are generally not permitted in filings made with the SEC. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured or indicated resources reported in our Canadian filings will ever be converted into SEC Guide 7 compliant reserves. The figures for our estimated mineralized material are based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. Unless otherwise indicated, mineralization figures presented in our filings with securities regulatory authorities including the SEC, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time are based upon estimates made by independent geologists and our internal geologists. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, we must rely upon such estimated calculations as to the mineralized material and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineralized material and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. These estimates are imprecise and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that: •these estimates will be accurate; •mineralization estimates will be accurate; or •this mineralization can be mined or processed profitably. Any material changes in mineral estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and such property's return on capital. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests will be recovered in large-scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. The estimates contained in our public filings have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for gold and/or silver may render portions of our mineralization estimates uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization or adversely affect the commercial viability of one or more of our properties. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our estimated timetables to achieve production for Phase 2 of the El Gallo Complex and the Gold Bar properties may not be accurate. Based on technical work recently completed, including the El Gallo feasibility study and the Gold Bar preliminary feasibility study, we believe we can achieve Phase 2 production at the El Gallo Complex in the second half of 2014 and at our Gold Bar properties in late 2015. However, the Gold Bar preliminary feasibility study is preliminary in nature and is subject to change due to factors within and outside of our control. There is no certainty that the feasibility study and the preliminary assessment and economics estimated in those reports will be realized or that we will be able to begin production within the timelines estimated, if at all. 12 Table of Contents We will require significant amounts of capital through debt or equity to place one or both of these properties into production, and our ability to obtain this necessary funding will depend on a number of factors, including the status of the national and worldwide economy and the price of silver, gold, and other precious and base metals. Fluctuations in production costs, material changes in the mineral estimates and grades of mineralization or changes in the political conditions or regulations in Mexico or Nevada may make placing these properties into production uneconomic. Further, we may also be unable to obtain the necessary permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms or on terms that provide us sufficient resources to develop our properties. These and other factors may cause us to delay Phase 2 production at the El Gallo Complex and our Gold Bar properties beyond 2014 and 2015, or cancel our plans entirely. Historical production of gold at our Tonkin Complex or Magistral Mine (El Gallo Phase 1) is not indicative of the potential for future development or revenue. Historical production of gold from our Tonkin Complex came from relatively shallow deposits, in very limited quantities and for a very limited period of time. Processing the mineralization at Tonkin also presents significant metallurgical difficulties that may cause it to be uneconomic or unfeasible to mine and process ore on a commercial scale. In Mexico, the Magistral Mine produced gold from 2002 through 2005, but it was shut down in 2006 and was held by us on a care and maintenance basis until the fourth quarter of 2011. The restart of the Magistral Mine is now considered Phase 1 of our El Gallo Complex; we made the decision to proceed with Phase 1 construction without the benefit of a feasibility study. There are significant risks and uncertainty associated with commencing production without a feasibility or pre-feasibility study. The area comprising Phase 1 of El Gallo production has not been explored, developed and analyzed in sufficient detail to complete an independent SEC compliant feasibility or pre-feasibility study and may ultimately be determined to lack one or more geological, metallurgical, engineering, legal, operating, economic, social, environmental, and other relevant factors reasonably required to serve as the basis for a final decision to complete the development of all or part of the El Gallo project for mineral production. Investors in our securities should be cautioned not to rely on our historical operations as an indication that we will place those mining properties into commercial production or that any such attempts to resume production would be successful. We may require significant additional capital to develop additional mining operations. We may need to obtain additional financing, either in the form of debt or equity financing, to fund development of additional mining operations such as Phase 2 of the El Gallo Complex or the Gold Bar Project. Our working capital balance, along with expected cash generated from mining operations and dividends received from MSC during 2013, is not expected to be sufficient to allow us to develop El Gallo Phase 2, the next project in our pipeline. Our ability to obtain necessary funding, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the state of the economy and applicable commodity prices. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing for El Gallo Phase 2, or other purposes, on terms that are favorable to us or at all, in which case, our ability to continue operating would be adversely affected. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration or potential development and the possible partial or total loss of our interest in certain properties. 13 Table of Contents Minera Andes' assets may be less valuable to us than expected. The value of Minera Andes to us, other than its interest in the San José Mine, is based in large part on the value of the Los Azules Copper Project and the ability to discover mineralized material on the other acquired exploration properties. The Los Azules Copper Project has only "inferred resources" and "indicated resources", based on NI 43-101 definitions. There can be no assurance that these mineral resources will be upgraded to mineral reserves or that if mineral deposits are discovered on the other exploration properties, that such mineral deposits can be commercially mined. If we are unable to establish some or all of the mineralized material on the Minera Andes' properties as proven or probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations, the market value of our securities may decline, and you may lose some or all of your investment. Development at the Los Azules copper project presents development challenges that may negatively affect, if not completely negate, the feasibility of development of the property. The Los Azules property that we acquired with Minera Andes is located in a remote location that is accessed by 75 miles (120 kilometers) of unimproved dirt road with eight river crossings and two mountain passes both above 13,451 feet (4,100 meters). Even assuming that technical difficulties associated with this remote location can be overcome, the capital costs may make the project uneconomical. According to the technical report prepared for Minera Andes with an effective date of December 1, 2010, capital costs were estimated to be $2.8 billion initially and $3.73 billion over the life of the mine with an accuracy target of plus or minus 35%. These are historical calculations and capital costs calculated today are expected to be substantially higher when we provide an updated estimate in the second half of 2013. In order for the Los Azules property to be economically feasible for development, the price of copper would have to be high enough to justify the high capital costs estimated for the project. There can be no assurance that these capital cost estimates are accurate; given the inflationary pressure in the mining industry and in Argentina in particular, these capital costs are likely to increase substantially. If the long term price of copper were to decrease significantly below the current price or capital cost estimates increase significantly, the Los Azules property may not be feasible for development, and we may have to write-off the asset. Furthermore, even if the development of the Los Azules property becomes economically feasible, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to develop the property, may not receive the required permits or environmental approvals, may not be able to construct the necessary power and infrastructure assets and may not be able to attract qualified workers to build such a project, any of which could result in the delay or indefinite postponement of development at the property. Such a result would have a material negative effect on our Company. We own our 49% interest in the San José Mine and the other 51% is owned Hochschild Mining plc., under the terms of an option and joint venture agreement, and therefore we are unable to control all aspects of exploration and development of this property. Our interest in the San José Mine is subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of joint ventures. A disagreement between joint venture partners on how to conduct business efficiently, the inability of joint venture partners to meet their obligations to the joint venture or third parties, or litigation arising between joint venture partners regarding joint venture matters could have a material adverse effect on the viability of our interests held through the joint venture. We are subject to litigation risks. All industries, including the mining industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit. Defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We may acquire additional exploration stage properties and we may face negative reactions if reserves are not located on acquired properties. We have in the past and may in the future acquire additional exploration stage properties. There can be no assurance that we have or will be able to complete the 14 Table of Contents acquisition of such properties at reasonable prices or on favorable terms and that reserves will be identified on any properties that we acquire. We may also experience negative reactions from the financial markets if we are unable to successfully complete acquisitions of additional properties or if reserves are not located on acquired properties. These factors may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock or our financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuating precious metals and copper prices could negatively impact our business. The potential for profitability of our gold and silver mining operations and the value of our mining properties are directly related to the market price of gold, silver and copper. The price of gold, silver and copper may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock. The market price of gold and silver historically has fluctuated significantly and is affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include supply and demand fundamentals, expectations with respect to the rate of inflation, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar and other currencies, interest rates, gold and silver sales and loans by central banks, forward sales by metal producers, accumulation and divestiture by exchange traded funds, global or regional political, economic or banking crises, and a number of other factors. The market price of silver is also affected by industrial demand. The selection of a property for exploration or development, the determination to construct a mine and place it into production, and the dedication of funds necessary to achieve such purposes are decisions that must be made long before the first revenues, if any, from production will be received. Price fluctuations between the time that such decisions are made and the commencement of production can have a material adverse effect on the economics of a mine. The volatility in gold, silver and copper prices is illustrated by the following table, which sets forth, for the periods indicated, the average market prices in U.S. dollars per ounce of gold and silver, based on the daily London P.M. fix, and per pound of copper based on the London Metal Exchange Grade A copper settlement price. Average Annual Market Price of Gold and Silver (per oz.) and Copper (per lb.) Metal 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gold $ 872 $ 972 $ 1,224 $ 1,572 $ 1,669 Silver $ 14.99 $ 14.67 $ 20.19 $ 35.12 $ 31.15 Copper $ 3.15 $ 2.34 $ 3.42 $ 4.00 $ 3.61 The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate. In the event gold and silver prices decline and remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. Our continuing reclamation obligations at the Tonkin Complex, El Gallo Complex and our other properties could require significant additional expenditures. We are responsible for the reclamation obligations related to disturbances located on all of our properties, including the Tonkin Complex. We have posted a bond in the amount of the estimated reclamation obligation at the Tonkin Complex. We submitted a mine closure plan to the BLM for the Tonkin Complex during the fourth quarter of 2010. Based on our estimate, the change in our bonding requirements was insignificant. Our closure plan is currently under review by the BLM. We have not posted a bond in Mexico relating to the El Gallo Complex, as none is required but have recorded a liability based on the estimated amount of our reclamation obligations. There is a risk that any cash bond or recorded liability, even if increased based on the analysis and work performed to update the reclamation obligations, could be inadequate to cover the actual costs of reclamation when carried out. The satisfaction of bonding requirements and continuing reclamation obligations will require a significant amount of capital. There is a risk that we will be unable to fund these additional bonding requirements, and further, that the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation and bonding requirements to such a degree that it would not be 15 Table of Contents commercially reasonable to continue exploration activities, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial performance and cash flows. Our ongoing operations and past mining activities are subject to environmental risks, which could expose us to significant liability and delay, suspension or termination of our operations. All phases of our operations are subject to United States, Mexican or Argentinean federal, state and local environmental regulation. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for us and our officers, directors and employees. Future changes in environmental regulation, if any, may adversely affect our operations, make our operations prohibitively expensive, or prohibit them altogether. Environmental hazards may exist on our properties that are unknown to us at the present and that have been caused by us, or previous owners or operators, or that may have occurred naturally. Mining properties from the companies we have acquired may cause us to be liable for remediating any damage that those companies may have caused. The liability could include response costs for removing or remediating the release and damage to natural resources, including ground water, as well as the payment of fines and penalties. We have transferred our interest in several mining properties over past years, some of which are now being operated by third parties. Under applicable U.S. federal and state environmental laws, as prior owner of these properties, we may be liable for remediating any damage that we may have caused. The liability could include response costs for removing or remediating the release and damage to natural resources, including ground water, as well as the payment of fines and penalties. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities, causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Due to an increased level of non-governmental organization activity targeting the mining industry, the potential for the government to delay the issuance of permits or impose new requirements or conditions upon mining operations may be increased. Any changes in government policies may be costly to comply with and may delay mining operations. Future changes in such laws and regulations, if any, may adversely affect our operations, make our operations prohibitively expensive, or prohibit them altogether. If our interests are materially adversely affected as a result of a violation of applicable laws, regulations, or permitting requirements or a change in applicable law or regulations, it would have a significant negative impact on the value of our company and could have a significant impact on our stock price. Our operations are subject to permitting requirements which could require us to delay, suspend or terminate our operations on our mining properties. Our mining operations, including ongoing exploration drilling programs, require permits from the state and federal governments, including permits for the use of water and for drilling wells for water. We may be unable to obtain these permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms or on terms that provide us sufficient resources to develop our properties, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain such permits, the time required by the permitting process can be significant. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving these permits, our timetable and business plan for exploration of our properties will be adversely affected, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and market price of our securities. 16 Table of Contents Our operations in Mexico and Argentina are subject to changes in political conditions, regulations and crime. Our El Gallo Complex as well as certain other concessions, are located in Mexico and are subject to laws and regulations applied by Mexican federal, state, and local governments. As a result, our mining investments in Mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of business in foreign countries. In the past, Mexico has been subject to political instability, changes and uncertainties which may cause changes to existing government regulations affecting mineral exploration and mining activities. Civil or political unrest or violence could disrupt our operations at any time. In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the level of violence and crime relating to drug cartels in Sinaloa state, where we operate, and in other regions of Mexico. This may disrupt our ability to carry out exploration and mining activities and affect the safety and security of our employees and contractors. Our exploration and mining activities may be adversely affected in varying degrees by changing government regulations relating to the mining industry or shifts in political conditions, including as a result of periodic elections, that could increase the costs related to our activities or maintaining our properties. Our San José Mine as well as certain other concessions, are located in Argentina and are subject to laws and regulations applied by Argentinian federal, provincial, and local governments. As a result, our mining investments in Argentina are subject to the risks normally associated with the conduct of business in foreign countries. There are risks relating to an uncertain or unpredictable political and economic environment in Argentina. During an economic crisis in 2002 and 2003, Argentina defaulted on foreign debt repayments and on the repayment on a number of official loans to multinational organizations. In addition, the Argentinean government has renegotiated or defaulted on contractual arrangements. In January 2008, the Argentinean government reassessed its policy and practice in respect of export duties and began levying export duties on mining companies operating in the country. Although this particular change did not affect the San José Mine as its fiscal stability agreement explicitly fixes export duties at 5% for doré bars and 10% for concentrates, there can be no assurance that the Argentinean government will not unilaterally take other action which could have a material adverse effect on our projects in the country or that Argentina will continue to honor, this or other fiscal agreements. In October 2011, the Argentinean government announced a decree requiring mining companies to repatriate mining revenues to Argentina and to convert those revenues into Argentine pesos prior to taking any further action with respect to such revenues, such as paying suppliers or distributing profits, either locally or out of the country. This decree has resulted in increased foreign exchange and bank transaction costs to the Company and increased the Company's exposure to potential devaluation of the Argentine peso should Minera Santa Cruz S.A. be forced to hold more currency in Argentine pesos compared to U.S. dollars. There also is the risk of political violence and increased social tension in Argentina as Argentina has experienced periods of civil unrest, crime and labor unrest. Certain political and economic events such as acts, or failures to act, by a government authority in Argentina, and acts of political violence in Argentina, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate in the country. Changes, if any, in mining or investment policies or shifts in political attitude in any of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates may adversely affect the Company's operations or profitability. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to, but not limited to, restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, currency remittance, importation of parts and supplies, income and other taxes, expropriation of property, foreign investment, maintenance of claims, environmental legislation, land use, land claims of local people, water use and mine safety. Title to mineral properties can be uncertain, and we are at risk of loss of ownership of one or more of our properties. Our ability to explore and operate our properties depends on the validity of our title to that property. Our U.S. mineral properties consist of leases of unpatented mining claims, as well as 17 Table of Contents unpatented mining and millsite claims which we control directly. Unpatented mining claims provide only possessory title and their validity is often subject to contest by third parties or the federal government, which makes the validity of unpatented mining claims uncertain and generally more risky. Our Mexico concessions are granted by the Mexican government for a period of up to 50 years from the date of their recording in the Public Registry of Mining and are renewable for a further period of up to 50 years upon application within five years of expiration of such concession in accordance with the Mining Law and its Regulations. Failure to do so prior to expiration of the term of the exploration concession will result in termination of the concession. Under Argentinean Law, concessions are granted by provincial governments for unlimited periods of time, subject to a mining fee and the filing of a minimum investment plan and compliance with a one-off minimum investment in the concession equal to 300 times the relevant mining fee over a five year period. Failure to comply with these conditions may result in the termination of the concession. Uncertainties inherent in mineral properties relate to such things as the sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, assessment work and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from public record. We have not obtained title opinions covering our entire property, with the attendant risk that title to some claims, particularly title to undeveloped property, may be defective. There may be valid challenges to the title to our property which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. We remain at risk in that the mining claims may be forfeited either due to failure to comply with statutory requirements as to location and maintenance of the claims or challenges to whether a discovery of a valuable mineral exists on every claim. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly and adversely affect the mining industry. Periodically, members of the U.S. Congress have introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the General Mining Law of 1872, which governs the unpatented claims that we control with respect to our U.S. properties. One such amendment has become law and has imposed a moratorium on the patenting of mining claims, which reduced the security of title provided by unpatented claims such as those on our U.S. properties. If additional legislation is enacted, it could substantially increase the cost of holding unpatented mining claims by requiring payment of royalties, and could significantly impair our ability to develop mineral estimates on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to make permanent the patent moratorium, to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims and to declare certain lands as unsuitable for mining. Although it is impossible to predict at this time what royalties may be imposed in the future, the imposition of such royalties could adversely affect the potential for development of such mining claims, and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our business. Our lack of operating experience may cause us difficulty in managing our growth. Our management team, as a whole, has limited experience in developing and operating a mine. We are currently working towards the development of El Gallo Phase 2 in Mexico, our Gold Bar Project in Nevada, and our Los Azules Copper Project in Argentina. If we are unable to successfully place these projects into production, our stock price may suffer and you may lose some or all of your investment. Our ability to manage the anticipated growth that we expect will accompany placing one or more of those properties into production will require us to improve and expand our management and our operational systems and controls. If our management is unable to manage growth effectively, our business and financial condition would be materially harmed. In addition, if rapid growth occurs, it may strain our operational, managerial and financial resources. 18 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will have an adequate supply of water to complete desired exploration or development of our mining properties. In accordance with the laws of the State of Nevada, we have obtained permits to drill the water wells that we currently use to service the Tonkin property and we plan to obtain all required permits for drilling water wells to serve other properties we may develop or acquire in the future. However, the amount of water that we are entitled to use from those wells must be determined by the appropriate regulatory authorities. A final determination of these rights is dependent in part on our ability to demonstrate a beneficial use for the amount of water that we intend to use. Unless we are successful in developing the property to a point where we can commence commercial production of gold or other precious metals, we may not be able to demonstrate such beneficial use. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will have access to the amount of water needed to operate a mine at the property, which may prevent us from generating revenue, and which would adversely affect our financial condition and cash flows. Our industry is highly competitive, attractive mineral lands are scarce, and we may not be able to obtain quality properties. We compete with many companies in the mining industry, including large, established mining companies with substantial capabilities, personnel and financial resources. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for claim staking, lease or acquisition in the United States, Mexico, Argentina, and other areas where we may conduct exploration activities. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring mineral properties, since we compete with these individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources and larger technical staffs than we do. From time to time, specific properties or areas which would otherwise be attractive to us for exploration or acquisition may be unavailable to us due to their previous acquisition by other companies or our lack of financial resources. Competition in the industry is not limited to the acquisition of mineral properties but also extends to the technical expertise to find, advance, and operate such properties; the labor to operate the properties; and the capital for the purpose of funding such properties. Many competitors not only explore for and mine precious metals, but conduct refining and marketing operations on a world-wide basis. Such competition may result in our Company being unable not only to acquire desired properties, but to recruit or retain qualified employees or to acquire the capital necessary to fund our operation and advance our properties. Our inability to compete with other companies for these resources would have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses that could materially and adversely affect our operations. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Few properties that are explored are ultimately advanced to production. Our current exploration efforts are, and future development and mining operations we conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and developing mineral properties, such as, but not limited to: •economically insufficient mineralized material; •fluctuations in production costs that may make mining uneconomical; •availability of labor, contractors, engineers, power, transportation and infrastructure; •labor disputes; •potential delays related to social, public health, and community issues; •unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; •environmental hazards; •water conditions; 19 Table of Contents •difficult surface or underground conditions; •industrial accidents; •metallurgical and other processing problems; •mechanical and equipment performance problems; •failure of pit walls or dams; •unusual or unexpected rock formations; •personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; and •decrease in reserves or mineralized material due to a lower silver, gold or copper price. Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures, potential revenues and production dates. We currently have no insurance to guard against any of these risks, except in very limited circumstances. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur a write-down of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable. We do not insure against all risks to which we may be subject in our planned operations. While we currently maintain insurance to insure against general commercial liability claims and physical assets at our properties in Nevada, Mexico and Argentina, we do not maintain insurance to cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations. Our other exploration projects have no existing infrastructure for which we insure. We may also be unable to obtain insurance to cover other risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available, or may not be adequate to cover liabilities. We might also become subject to liability for environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and production which may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause us to incur significant costs that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fund activities on our property. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations. We depend on a limited number of personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our company is dependent on key management, namely our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, our Chief Operating Officer, our Senior Vice President, our Vice President, Argentina, and our Vice President, Projects. Robert R. McEwen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for strategic direction and the oversight of our business. Perry Y. Ing, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for our public reporting and administrative functions. William Faust (Chief Operating Officer), Ian Ball (Senior Vice President), Simon Quick (Vice President, Projects), and Andrew Elinesky (Vice President, Argentina), oversee project development in, Mexico, Nevada and Argentina, respectively. We rely heavily on these individuals for the conduct of our business. The loss of any of these officers would significantly and adversely affect our business. In that event, we would be forced to identify and retain an individual to replace the departed officer. We may not be able to replace one or more of these individuals on terms acceptable to us. We have no life insurance on the life of any officer. Some of our directors may have conflicts of interest as a result of their involvement with other natural resource companies. Some of our directors are directors or officers of other natural resource or mining-related companies, or may be involved in related pursuits that could present conflicts of interest with their roles at our Company. These associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. In the event that any such conflict of interest arises, a director who has such a conflict is required to disclose the conflict to the other directors and may be required to abstain from voting on the matter. 20 Table of Contents We are subject to foreign currency risk. While we transact most of our business in U.S. dollars, some expenses, such as labor, operating supplies and property and equipment are denominated in Canadian dollars, Mexican pesos or Argentine pesos. As a result, currency exchange fluctuations may impact our operating costs. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies against the U.S. dollar increases costs and the cost of purchasing property and equipment in U.S. dollar terms in Canada, Mexico and Argentina, which can adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. Conversely, a depreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies usually decreases operating costs and property and equipment purchases in U.S. dollar terms in foreign countries. The value of cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies also fluctuates with changes in currency exchange rates. Appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies results in a foreign currency gain on such investments and a depreciation in non-U.S. dollar currencies results in a loss. We have not utilized market risk sensitive instruments to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates but may in the future actively manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We also hold a majority of our cash reserves in non-U.S. dollar currencies. New Argentinean foreign exchange regulations and export repatriation requirements could adversely affect our liquidity and operations. In October 2011, Argentina announced a decree requiring mining companies to repatriate mining revenues to Argentine currency before distributing revenue either locally or overseas. Fluctuation in the value of the Argentine peso as a result of the repatriation requirement and the repatriation requirement may create inefficiencies in our ability to transfer our revenue from Argentina and result in substantial transaction costs. Further, there are additional transaction costs imposed by the central bank for transferring funds from and within Argentina. In April 2012, Argentina announced further rules which initially reduced the number of days mining companies have to repatriate funds relating to exports sales to 15 days and then subsequently in July 2012, relaxed the repatriation requirement to 45 days on the export of doré and 180 days on the sale of concentrates for certain mining companies including MSC which operates the San José Mine. During this interim period of uncertainty, there was a disruption to MSC's exports, especially concentrate sales which take significantly longer than doré to process. This resulted in a disruption to their cash flows and ultimately, to the timing and amount of dividends that MSC has been able to pay to us during 2012. These restrictions and any additional restrictions on the Argentinean foreign exchange regime or export repatriation requirements could affect our liquidity and operations in Argentina, and our ability to access such funds. Global climate change is an international concern, and could impact our ability to conduct future operations. Global climate change is an international issue and receives an enormous amount of publicity. We would expect that the imposition of international treaties or United States, Mexican or Argentine federal, state or local laws or regulations pertaining to mandatory reductions in energy consumption or emissions of greenhouse gasses could affect the feasibility of our mining projects and increase our operating costs. The laws of the State of Colorado and our Articles of Incorporation may protect our directors from certain types of lawsuits. The laws of the State of Colorado provide that our directors will not be liable to us or our shareholders for monetary damages for all but certain types of conduct as directors of the Company. Our Articles of Incorporation permit us to indemnify our directors and officers against all damages incurred in connection with our business to the fullest extent provided or allowed by law. The exculpation provisions may have the effect of preventing shareholders from recovering damages against our directors caused by their negligence, poor judgment or other circumstances. The indemnification provisions may require us to use our limited assets to defend our directors and officers against claims, including claims arising out of their negligence, poor judgment, or other circumstances. 21 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Gain recognized by non-U.S. holders and non-U.S. persons holding any interest in the Company other than solely as a creditor (including, for example, interests in the form of our convertible debt, if any) on the sale or other disposition of our securities may be subject to U.S. federal income tax. We believe that we currently are a "United States real property holding corporation" under section 897(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), or USRPHC, and that there is a substantial likelihood that we will continue to be a USRPHC in the future. Subject to certain exceptions, securities (other than securities that provide no interest in a corporation other than solely as a creditor) issued by a corporation that has been a USRPHC at any time during the preceding five years (or the non-U.S. holder's holding period for such securities, if shorter) are treated as U.S. real property interests, or USRPIs, and a gain recognized by a non-U.S. holder on the sale or other disposition of a USRPI is subject to regular U.S. federal income tax, on a net basis at graduated rates, as if such gain were effectively connected with the conduct by such holder of a U.S. trade or business. If gain recognized by a non-U.S. holder from the sale or other disposition of McEwen Mining common stock or other securities is subject to regular net basis income tax under these rules, the transferee of such McEwen Mining common stock or other securities may be required to deduct and withhold a tax equal to 10% of the gross amount paid to the non-U.S. holder with respect to the sale or other disposition, unless certain exceptions apply. Any tax withheld may be credited against the U.S. federal income tax owed by the non-U.S. holder for the year in which the sale or other disposition occurs. The conversion of Exchangeable Shares, exercise of options and the future issuances of McEwen Mining common stock will dilute current shareholders and may reduce the market price of McEwen Mining common stock. As of March 4, 2013, we had outstanding Exchangeable Shares and options to purchase a total of 86.4 million shares of McEwen Mining common stock, which if completely converted or exercised, would dilute existing shareholders' ownership of McEwen Mining by approximately 40%, assuming all Exchangeable Shares not held by McEwen Mining or its subsidiaries are exchanged for an equivalent amount of McEwen Mining common stock. Under certain circumstances, McEwen Mining's board of directors (the "McEwen Mining Board") has the authority to authorize the offer and sale of additional securities without the vote of or notice to existing shareholders. McEwen Mining may issue equity in the future in connection with acquisitions, strategic transactions or for other purposes. Based on the need for additional capital to fund expected growth, it is likely that we will issue additional securities to provide such capital and that such additional issuances may involve a significant number of shares of McEwen Mining common stock. Issuance of additional securities in the future will dilute the percentage interest of existing shareholders of McEwen Mining and may reduce the market price of McEwen Mining common stock and other securities. Furthermore, the sale of a significant amount of McEwen Mining common stock by any selling security holders, specifically Mr. Robert R. McEwen ("Mr. McEwen"), our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, may depress the price of McEwen Mining common stock. As a result, you may lose all or a portion of your investment. A small number of existing shareholders own a significant portion of McEwen Mining common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. As of March 4, 2013, Mr. McEwen beneficially owned approximately 25%, or 73.9 million shares, of the 297.0 million shares of McEwen Mining common stock (assuming all outstanding Exchangeable Shares not held by McEwen Mining or its subsidiaries are exchanged for an equivalent amount of McEwen Mining common stock). Under McEwen Mining's Articles of Incorporation and the laws of the State of Colorado, the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, Mr. McEwen will be able to significantly influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the election of directors, amendments to our Articles of Incorporation or proposed mergers, acquisitions or other significant corporate transactions. 22 Table of Contents Our stock price has historically been volatile, and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. The market price of McEwen Mining common stock has fluctuated significantly and may decline in the future. The high and low sale prices of McEwen Mining common stock on the NYSE Amex, and the NYSE after November 2, 2010, were $8.17 and $2.02 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, $9.87 and $2.93 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and $6.17 and $1.96 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. The fluctuation of the market price of McEwen Mining common stock has been affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: changes in the worldwide price for gold, silver and copper, results from our exploration or development efforts and the other risk factors discussed herein. We have never paid a dividend on McEwen Mining common stock and we do not anticipate paying one in the foreseeable future. We have not paid a dividend on McEwen Mining common stock to date, and we do not expect to be in a position to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our initial earnings from the San José Mine, if any, will likely be retained to finance our growth. Any future dividends will depend upon any future earnings, our then-existing financial requirements and other factors, and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 