ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This report, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by several risk factors, including those summarized below: The feasibility of mining any of our properties has not been established, meaning that we have not completed exploration or other work necessary to determine if it is commercially feasible to develop any property. We are currently an exploration stage company. We have no proven or probable reserves on our properties. A "reserve," as defined by regulation of the SEC, is that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. A reserve requires a feasibility study demonstrating with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically extracted and produced. We have not carried out any feasibility study with regard to all or a portion of our properties. As a result, we currently have no reserves and there are no assurances that we will be able to prove that there are reserves on our properties. The mineralized material identified on our Tonkin property does not and may never have demonstrated economic viability. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling and there is no assurance that reserves will be established. The feasibility of mining on our Tonkin property or any other property has not been, and may never be, established. Whether a mineral deposit can be commercially viable depends upon a number of factors, including the particular attributes of the deposit, including size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; metal prices, which can be highly variable; and government regulations, including environmental and reclamation obligations. If we are unable to establish some or all of our mineralized material as proven or probable reserves in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital to develop a mine, even if one is warranted. If we are unable to establish such reserves, the market value of our securities may decline. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception in 1979 and may never be profitable. Since our inception in 1979, we have not been profitable. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was approximately $139 million (including a non-cash expense of approximately $52 million related to derivative instrument accounting in the year ended December 31, 2006). To become profitable, we must identify additional mineralization and establish reserves at our mining properties, and then either develop our properties or locate and enter into agreements with third party operators. It could be years before we receive any revenues from gold production, if ever. We may suffer significant additional losses in the future and may never be profitable. We do not expect to receive revenue from operations in the foreseeable future, if at all. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We will require significant additional capital to continue our exploration activities, and, if warranted, to develop mining operations. Substantial expenditures will be required to determine if proven and probable reserves exist at any of our properties, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal or develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at our existing or any of our newly-acquired properties or mine sites. We will be required to expend significant amounts for geological and geochemical analysis, assaying, and, if warranted, feasibility studies with regard to the results of our exploration. We may not benefit from these investments if we are unable to identify commercially exploitable mineralized material. If we are successful in identifying reserves, we will require significant additional capital to construct a mill and other facilities necessary to extract those reserves. Our ability to obtain necessary funding, in turn, depends upon a number of factors, including the status of the 5 national and worldwide economy and the price of gold. We may not be successful in obtaining the required financing for these or other purposes on terms that are favorable to us or at all, in which case, our ability to continue operating would be adversely affected. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and the possible, partial or total loss of our potential interest in certain properties. Historical production of gold at our Tonkin or Magistral property may not be indicative of the potential for future development or revenue. Historical production of gold from our Tonkin property came from relatively shallow deposits, in very limited quantities and for a very limited period of time. Although we commenced exploration of deeper zones in 2006 in an effort to identify additional mineralized material, due to the uncertainties associated with exploration, including variations in geology and structure, there is no assurance that our efforts will be successful. While the Magistral Mine produced gold from 2002 through 2004, it was shut down in 2005 and is currently held by us on a care and maintenance basis. Investors in our securities should not rely on our historical operations as an indication that we will ever place any of our mining properties into commercial production again. We expect to incur losses unless and until such time as one or more of our properties enters into commercial production and generates sufficient revenue to fund our continuing operations. Estimates of mineralized material at our Tonkin property are based on drill results from shallow deposits and are not necessarily indicative of the results we may achieve from drilling at greater depths. Previous operators at the Tonkin property were focused on producing gold from shallow deposits in an effort to achieve immediate revenue. Our drilling program, which commenced in 2006 and continued into 2007, targeted mineralization at greater depths and at different locations on our property. Estimates of mineralization in shallow zones are not necessarily indicative of mineralization at greater depths. In addition, estimates of mineralization are based on limited samples and many assumptions, and are inherently imprecise. Our ability to identify and delineate additional mineralization depends on the results of our future drilling efforts and our ability to properly interpret those results. We may be unable to identify any significant additional mineralization or any reserves. We may have overpaid for the shares of the Acquired Companies. The price that we paid for the Acquired Companies was based in part on the perceived benefits of those acquisitions. However, there is no assurance that the acquisition of the Acquired Companies will result in any or all of the benefits that we envision. In the event that one or more of the acquisitions does not prove to be beneficial to us, the market price of our common stock may decline. Fluctuating gold prices could negatively impact our business plan. The potential for profitability of our gold mining operations and the value of our mining properties are directly related to the market price of gold. The price of gold may also have a significant influence on the market price of our common stock. If we obtain positive drill results and progress one of our properties to a point where a commercial production decision can be made, our decision to put a mine into production and to commit the funds necessary for that purpose must be made long before any revenue from production would be received. A decrease in the price of gold at any time during future exploration and development may prevent our property from being economically mined or result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of lower gold prices. The price of gold is affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including inflation, fluctuation of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, the purchase or sale of gold by central banks, and the political and economic conditions of major gold producing countries throughout the world. During the 6 last five years, the average annual market price of gold has ranged between $364 per ounce and $696 per ounce, as shown in the table below: Average Annual Market Price of Gold (per oz.) 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 $ 364 $ 406 $ 445 $ 604 $ 696 The volatility of mineral prices represents a substantial risk which no amount of planning or technical expertise can fully eliminate. In the event gold prices decline and remain low for prolonged periods of time, we might be unable to develop our properties or produce any revenue. Our continuing reclamation obligations at the Tonkin property and other properties could require significant additional expenditures. We are responsible for the reclamation obligations related to disturbances located on all of our properties, including the Tonkin property. The current estimate of reclamation costs for existing disturbances on the Tonkin property to the degree required by the BLM and NDEP is approximately $3.8 million. As required by applicable regulations, we currently have in place a cash bond in the amount of $3.8 million to secure the reclamation of the property. Reclamation bond estimates are required to be updated every three years or prior to new disturbances taking place that are not already bonded. Our review of the projected reclamation costs at the Magistral Mine has resulted in an initial cost estimate of $2.7 million. However, no surety bonding is required for reclamation in Mexico. There is a risk that any cash bond, even if augmented upon update of the reclamation obligations, could be inadequate to cover the costs of reclamation which could subject us to additional costs for the actual reclamation obligations. The satisfaction of bonding requirements and continuing reclamation obligations will require a significant amount of capital. There is a risk that we will be unable to fund these additional bonding requirements, and further, that the regulatory authorities may increase reclamation and bonding requirements to such a degree that it would not be commercially reasonable to continue exploration activities. Title to mineral properties can be uncertain, and we are at risk of loss of ownership of one or more of our properties. Our ability to explore and operate our properties depends on the validity of title to that property. The mineral properties making up our United State properties consist of leases of unpatented mining claims, and unpatented mining and millsite claims. Unpatented mining claims provide only possessory title and their validity is often subject to contest by third parties or the federal government, which makes the validity of unpatented mining claims uncertain and generally more risky. These uncertainties relate to such things as the sufficiency of mineral discovery, proper posting and marking of boundaries, assessment work and possible conflicts with other claims not determinable from descriptions of record. Since a substantial portion of all mineral exploration, development and mining in the United States now occurs on unpatented mining claims, this uncertainty is inherent in the mining industry. We have not obtained a title opinion on our entire property, or on any of the properties of the Acquired Companies, with the attendant risk that title to some claims, particularly title to undeveloped property, may be defective. There may be valid challenges to the title to our property which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. We remain at risk that the mining claims may be forfeited either to the United States, or to rival private claimants due to failure to comply with statutory requirements as to location and maintenance of the claims or challenges to whether a discovery of a valuable mineral exists on every claim. Our properties in Mexico are subject to changes in political conditions and regulations in that country. Our Magistral Mine and the surrounding concessions are located in Mexico. In the past, that country has been subject to political instability, changes and uncertainties which may cause changes to existing government regulations affecting mineral exploration and mining activities. Civil or political unrest could disrupt our operations at any time. Our exploration and mining activities may be adversely 7 affected in varying degrees by changing government regulations relating to the mining industry or shifts in political conditions that could increase the costs related to our activities or maintaining our properties. Finally, Mexico's status as a developing country may make it more difficult for us to obtain required financing for this property. Our ongoing operations and past mining activities are subject to environmental risks, which could expose us to significant liability and delay, suspension or termination of our operations. All phases of the operations of the Acquired Companies, like our historic Tonkin property, are subject to federal, state and local environmental regulation. These regulations mandate, among other things, the maintenance of air and water quality standards and land reclamation. They also set forth limitations on the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Future changes in environmental regulation, if any, may adversely affect our operations, make our operations prohibitively expensive, or prohibit them altogether. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which we may hold interests in the future, including the properties of the Acquired Companies, that are unknown to us at the present and that have been caused by us, one of the Acquired Companies, or previous owners or operators, or that may have occurred naturally. Under applicable federal and state environmental laws, prior property owners may be liable for remediating any damage that those owners may have caused. Mining properties that the Acquired Companies may have transferred may cause us to be liable for remediating any damage that those companies may have caused. The liability could include response costs for removing or remediating the release and damage to natural resources, including ground water, as well as the payment of fines and penalties. A significant portion of the lode claims comprising our Tonkin property are subject to a lease in favor of a third party which may expire in 2009 and which provides for a 5% royalty on production. A total of 348 of our mining and millsite claims at the Tonkin property are subject to this lease. The lease requires annual payments of $150,000 or 455 ounces of gold, whichever is greater, and payment of a royalty of 5% of the gross sales price of gold or silver from the property before deduction of any expenses from the gross sales price. The term of this lease expires January 1, 2009 and can be extended from year to year, up to a maximum of 99 years, by production from or other activities on the leased claims. This lease covers a portion of the claims in the mine corridor where most of our mineralized material has been identified. In the event the lease is not extended and/or we are unable to purchase the claims from the owner, we may be forced to forfeit the underlying claims, which in turn may adversely affect our ability to explore and develop the property. If we are successful in identifying sufficient mineralization to warrant placing the property into production, we will be obligated to pay the leaseholder a royalty of 5% of the production. The payment of this royalty, together with other royalties payable to third parties in respect of certain claims, will reduce our potential revenue. We cannot assure you that we will have an adequate supply of water to complete desired exploration or development of our mining property. In accordance with the laws of the State of Nevada, we have obtained permits to drill the water wells that we currently use to service the Tonkin property and we plan to obtain all required permits for drilling water wells to serve other property we may acquire in the future. However, the amount of water that we are entitled to use from those wells must be determined by the appropriate regulatory authorities. A final determination of these rights is dependent in part on our ability to demonstrate a beneficial use for the amount of water that we intend to use. Unless we are successful in developing the property to a point where we can commence commercial production of gold or other precious metals, we may not be able to demonstrate such beneficial use. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will have access to the amount of water needed to operate a mine at the property. 8 We depend on a limited number of personnel and the loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our company is primarily dependent on two persons, namely our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Robert R. McEwen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for strategic direction and the oversight of our business. William F. Pass, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for our public reporting and administrative functions. We rely heavily on these individuals for the conduct of our business. Mr. Pass announced his intention of retiring in the spring of 2008, and in March 2008 the company hired his replacement. The loss of any of our existing officers would significantly and adversely affect our business. In that event, we would be forced to identify and retain an individual to replace the departed officer. We may not be able to replace one or more of these individuals on terms acceptable to us. We have no life insurance on the life of any officer. The nature of mineral exploration and production activities involves a high degree of risk and the possibility of uninsured losses that could materially and adversely affect our operations. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative and involves greater risk than many other businesses. Many exploration programs do not result in the discovery of mineralization, and any mineralization discovered may not be of sufficient quantity or quality to be profitably mined. Few properties that are explored are ultimately advanced to the stage of producing mines. Our current exploration efforts are, and any future development or mining operations we may elect to conduct will be, subject to all of the operating hazards and risks normally incident to exploring for and developing mineral properties, such as, but not limited to: •economically insufficient mineralized material; •fluctuations in production costs that may make mining uneconomical; •labor disputes; •unanticipated variations in grade and other geologic problems; •environmental hazards; •water conditions; •difficult surface or underground conditions; •industrial accidents; •metallurgical and other processing problems; •mechanical and equipment performance problems; •failure of pit walls or dams; •unusual or unexpected rock formations; •personal injury, fire, flooding, cave-ins and landslides; and •decrease in reserves due to a lower gold price. Any of these risks can materially and adversely affect, among other things, the development of properties, production quantities and rates, costs and expenditures and production commencement dates. We currently have no insurance to guard against any of these risks. If we determine that capitalized costs associated with any of our mineral interests are not likely to be recovered, we would incur a writedown of our investment in these interests. All of these factors may result in losses in relation to amounts spent which are not recoverable. 9 We do not insure against all risks to which we may be subject in our planned operations. While we currently maintain insurance to insure against general commercial liability claims, our insurance will not cover all of the potential risks associated with our operations. For example, we do not have insurance on the mill at our Tonkin property nor the mine assets associated with the Magistral property and we do not have business interruption insurance. We may also be unable to obtain insurance to cover other risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available, or may not be adequate to cover liabilities. We might also become subject to liability for environmental, pollution or other hazards associated with mineral exploration and production which may not be insured against, which may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause us to incur significant costs that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to fund activities on our property. A significant loss could force us to reduce or terminate our operations. We are required to annually evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on internal control over financial reporting commencing with the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Such a report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by our management. The completion of the acquisition transactions described in this report and the subsequent integration of the Acquired Companies into our operations have made it more difficult for us to comply with Section 404. If we are unable to maintain and to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if we disclose significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our stock price may be volatile and as a result you could lose all or part of your investment. The value of your investment could decline due to the impact of any of the following factors upon the market price of our common stock: •changes in the worldwide price for gold; •disappointing results from our exploration or development efforts; •failure to meet our operating budget; •decline in demand for our common stock; •downward revisions in securities analysts' estimates or changes in general market conditions; •technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies; •investor perception of our industry or our prospects; and •general economic trends. In addition, stock markets generally have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations and the market prices of securities generally have been highly volatile. These fluctuations are often unrelated to operating performance of a company and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As a result, investors may be unable to resell their shares at a fair price. The exercise of outstanding options and warrants and the future issuances of our common stock will dilute current shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common stock. As of March 7, 2008, 10 we have outstanding options and warrants to purchase a total of 12,314,749 shares of our common stock, which if completely exercised, would dilute existing shareholders' ownership by approximately 13%. A significant portion of the outstanding options are exercisable at prices significantly below the market price of our common stock as of March 8, 2008. If the market price of our stock remains at or above the exercise price, it is likely that these options will be exercised. Our board of directors has the authority to authorize the offer and sale of additional securities within certain limits without the vote of or notice to existing shareholders. Based on the need for additional capital to fund expected growth, it is likely that we will issue additional securities to provide such capital and that such additional issuances may involve a significant number of shares. Issuance of additional securities underlying outstanding options as authorized by our board of directors in the future will dilute the percentage interest of existing shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common stock. A small number of existing shareholders own a significant portion of our common stock, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. Our executive officers and directors beneficially own approximately 24% of our common stock as of March 7, 2008. Under our articles of incorporation and the laws of the State of Colorado, the vote of a majority of the shares voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present is generally required to approve most shareholder action. As a result, these individuals and entities will be able to significantly influence the outcome of shareholder votes for the foreseeable future, including votes concerning the election of directors, amendments to our articles of incorporation or proposed mergers or other significant corporate transactions. We have never paid a dividend on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. We have not paid a dividend on our common stock to date, and we may not be in a position to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends will depend on our ability to successfully develop one or more properties and generate revenue from operations. Further, our initial earnings, if any, will likely be retained to finance our growth. Any future dividends will depend upon our earnings, our then-existing financial requirements and other factors, and will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Our operations are subject to permitting requirements which could require us to delay, suspend or terminate our operations on our mining property. Our operations, including ongoing exploration drilling program, require permits from the state and federal governments. We may be unable to obtain these permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain or maintain the necessary permits, or if there is a delay in receiving these permits, our timetable and business plan for exploration of our properties will be adversely affected. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry. Periodically, members of the US Congress have introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the General Mining Law of 1872, which governs the unpatented claims that we control with respect to our U.S. properties. One such amendment has become law and has imposed a moratorium on patenting of mining claims, which reduced the security of title provided by unpatented claims such as those on our United States properties. If additional legislation is enacted, it could substantially increase the cost of holding unpatented mining claims by requiring payment of royalties, and could significantly impair our ability to develop mineral resources on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to make permanent the patent moratorium, to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims and to declare certain lands as unsuitable for mining. Although it is impossible to predict at this time what royalties may be imposed in the future, the imposition of such royalties could adversely affect the potential for development of such mining claims, and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our business. 11 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 