Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights the risks management believes could adversely affect our financial performance. Additional possible risks that could affect us adversely and cannot be predicted, may arise at any time. Other risks that are immaterial at this time may also have an adverse affect on our future financial condition. A continued downturn in the economy, particularly in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida, where our business is primarily conducted, could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and earnings are directly affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, economic conditions in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida. These conditions include legislative and regulatory changes, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, all of which are beyond our control. In late 2007 and all of 2008, the U.S. economy experienced a severe downturn that has continued throughout the first quarter 2009, and by some measures the downturn appears to be accelerating. Southwest Florida, in particular, has been severely affected by the current economic downturn. As a result, we have experienced asset quality issues in the southwest Florida market, and we expect to continue to experience materially higher levels of problem assets unless the economy greatly improves. A continued downturn in economic conditions, in particular within our primary market areas of downstate Illinois and southwest Florida, could result in a decrease in demand for our products and services, an increase in loan delinquencies and defaults, and increases in problem assets and foreclosures. Real estate pledged as collateral for loans made by us has and may continue to decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. These factors could lead to reduced interest income and an increase in the provision for loan losses. If the current weak economic conditions continue or worsen, our business, growth and profitability are likely to suffer a material adverse effect. To the extent that our business customers’ underlying businesses are harmed as a result of the general economic environment, our customers are more likely to default on their loans. In addition, the unemployment rate in the United States increased significantly during the second half of 2008 and appears to be continuing in 2009. Although employment levels in our primary market area of downstate Illinois has held up better than many other areas of the country, there is no guarantee that downstate Illinois will avoid the high unemployment rates that have harmed other areas of the country. Negative economic trends could lead to higher past due and non-accrual loans, resulting in a material adverse effect to our operating results and ability to pay dividends on our common stock. If the Banks are unable to pay our holding company cash dividends to meet our cash obligations, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Dividends paid by the Banks to us provide cash flow that we use to service our debt, pay holding company expenses and meet other of our cash obligations. Because of the deterioration of the loan portfolio Busey Bank, N.A. resulting from the severe downturn in the southwestern Florida real estate market, we currently do not have the ability to cause Busey Bank, N.A. to pay dividends to us, and we therefore are reliant primarily on Busey Bank for dividends. In addition, various statutory provisions restrict the amount of dividends the Banks can pay to our holding company without regulatory approval. It is possible that, depending upon the financial condition of the Banks and other factors, the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments, including payments to our holding company, is an unsafe or unsound practice. If the Banks are unable to pay dividends to us, particularly in the case of Busey Bank given that it is the larger of the two Banks and currently is the only one of the two that is permitted to pay dividends to us we may not be able to service our debt or otherwise meet our cash obligations. The inability of the holding company to receive any dividends from the Banks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to defer interest payments on the debentures. 14 Table of Contents A significant portion of the loans in our portfolio is secured by real estate. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Adverse changes affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, and could result in losses which would adversely affect profitability. Further adverse change in the economy affecting real estate values generally and, specifically, in downstate Illinois or southwest Florida, could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan which could result in loss. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, has the potential to adversely affect our real estate loan portfolio in several ways, each of which could adversely affect our operating results and/or financial condition. First, as noted above, approximately 22.9% of our loan portfolio consists of real estate construction loans, which primarily are loans made to home builders and developers. Further decrease in demand for the properties constructed by home builders and developers could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods on loans made to such borrowers. Second, many Florida real estate markets, including the markets in southwest Florida, where the Banks operate, declined in value throughout 2008 and may continue to undergo a period of severe downturn. A continuation of the deteriorating real estate market in the southwest Florida market could result in a reduction in loan origination activity and increases in non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses in that region. Third, the current market environment has led to a slowdown in the demand for residential real estate loans, which constitute a significant part of our overall portfolio. A slowdown in residential real estate lending may require us to devote a larger portion of our total assets to lower yielding investment securities, which could adversely affect our net interest margin. Finally, the problems that have occurred in the residential real estate and mortgage markets have begun to spread to the commercial real estate market, particularly in Florida. As a result, the value of some of the collateral securing our commercial real estate loans in Florida has declined, and the demand for our commercial real estate loans in that state has decreased. In addition, we have experienced a downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers located in Florida. In Illinois, we generally have not experienced a significant downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers, but in light of the uncertainty that exists in the economy and credit markets nationally, there can be no guarantee that we will not experience any deterioration in such performance. Construction and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to more losses on these projects than on other loans. Construction, land acquisition, and development loans make up a large portion of our total loan portfolio, and such lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time. We have attempted to address these risks through our underwriting procedures, compliance with applicable regulations, and by limiting the amount of construction development lending. 15 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb actual losses in our loan portfolio. We established our allowance for loan losses and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb potential loan losses based on a continual analysis of our portfolio and market environment. The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is supported by all available and relevant information. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. The amount of additions to the allowance for loan losses, which is charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, is determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolios, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in the relevant market area. The amount of loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions within our markets, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. The allowance for loan losses was $98.7 million at December 31, 2008, an increase from $42.6 million at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 3.03%, compared to 1.39% at December 31, 2007, and as a percentage of total non-performing loans was 117.20%, compared to 211.95% at December 31, 2007. Allowance for loan losses coverage of non-performing loans decreased due to the large amount of charge-offs taken during 2008. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, in light of the current economic environment, significant additional provisions for loan losses may be necessary to supplement the allowance for loan losses in the future, either due to management’s decision to do so or requirements by the regulators. Additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses and loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels, and other aspects of our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effect of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. Participation in Treasury’s CPP restricts our ability to raise the common stock dividend and may result in dilution of common stockholders. As discussed in Item 1 under “Recent Developments,” on March 6, 2009, we issued CPP Preferred Stock and a warrant to acquire up to 1,147,666 shares of our common stock to the Treasury Department under the CPP. Prior to March 6, 2012, unless we have redeemed the CPP Preferred Stock or Treasury has transferred the securities to a third party, Treasury’s consent will be required for us to increase our common stock dividend or repurchase our common stock (other than repurchases in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice). Under the anti-dilution provisions included in the terms of Treasury’s CPP investment, the per share exercise price of the warrant and the number of shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant will be adjusted upon certain issuances of our common stock at or below a specified price relative to the initial exercise price. The exercise of the common stock purchase warrant could result in dilution to existing common stockholders. As a participant in the CPP our business activities and corporate governance may be subject to additional restrictions and requirements, including requirements for lending activities and restrictions on compensation, some possibly with retroactive application, adopted by Congress, the Treasury Department or government agencies. For example, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 imposed retroactive compensation-related and corporate governance limitations even on those CPP participants that had closed their CPP transactions prior to the enacted of the legislation. 16 Table of Contents We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of loans within specific industries and geographic location, and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review and audit departments as well as external auditors. However, we cannot assure such approval and monitoring procedures will eliminate these credit risks. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may harm our financial performance. Our earnings and profitability depend significantly on its net interest income. Net interest income represents the difference between interest income and fees earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. In the event that interest paid on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments, there may be a negative impact on our net interest income. Changes in interest rates could also adversely affect the income of certain components of our noninterest income. An increase in interest rates may also affect the customer’s ability to pay, which could in turn increase loan losses. In addition, higher interest rates could also increase our cost to borrow funds. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations in market interest rates which are affected by the economy. Our wealth management business may be negatively impacted by changes in economic and market conditions. Our wealth management business may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic conditions and the conditions in the financial and securities markets. Our management contracts generally provide for fees payable for wealth management services based on the market value of assets under management. Because most of our contracts provide for a fee based on market values of securities, downward fluctuations in securities prices may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the significant decline in the financial and securities markets since the second half of 2008 has adversely affected the assets that we manage and has resulted in a corresponding decline in the performance of our customers’ portfolios. If the value of our customers’ portfolios experience a prolonged period of decline, we may have difficulty retaining some of our wealth management customers who also may be banking customers. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking and wealth management services, which could harm our business. We currently conduct our banking operations primarily in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida. In addition, we currently offer trust and investment management services through Busey Wealth Management, which is located in Champaign, Illinois, and accounts for a significant portion of our non-interest income. Many competitors offer the same banking and wealth management services within our market areas. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have opened production offices or otherwise solicit deposits in our market areas. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans, deposits and commissions and brokers’ fees. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to attract and retain banking and wealth management customers, we may be unable to continue to grow our loan and deposit portfolios and our commissions and brokers’ fees, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We rely heavily on information systems to service customers. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business and reduced earnings. We utilize and rely heavily on communications and information systems in every aspect of our business. Any failure of these systems could result in disruptions in our customer service management, management information, deposit, loan, or other systems. While we have procedures in place to prevent or limit the effects of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, there can be no guarantee that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We are also dependent on third-party service providers for data processing and other information processing systems that support our day-to-day banking, investment, and trust activities that are integral to our banking relationships with our customers. Any disruption in the services provided by these third parties could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet our customers’ needs. Our ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings and the recent economic stimulus legislation imposes new compensation restrictions that could adversely effect our ability to do so. Most of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management teams, lending and retail banking officers, and administrative staff of our subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional staff with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 that was signed into law in February 2009 includes extensive new restrictions on our ability to pay retention awards, bonuses and other incentive compensation during the period in which we have any outstanding securities held by Treasury that were issued under TARP. Many of the restrictions are not limited to our senior executives and cover other employees whose contributions to revenue and performance can be significant. The limitations may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain these key employees in addition to our senior executive officers, especially if we are competing for talent against institutions that are not subject to the same restrictions. For more information, refer to section “Recent Developments” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. A decline in our stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in further impairment of our goodwill. A further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in additional impairment of our goodwill. Further write-downs of goodwill could materially impact our operating results, but would have no impact on cash flow, tangible book value or regulatory capital. For further discussion, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this annual Report on Form 10-K. Adverse weather affecting the markets we serve could hurt our business and prospects for growth. We conduct a significant portion of our business in downstate Illinois. Downstate Illinois is a highly agricultural area and therefore the economy can be greatly affected by severe weather conditions, including, droughts, tornados and flooding. Unfavorable weather conditions may decrease agricultural productivity or could result in damage to our branch locations or the property of our customers, all of which could adversely affect the local economy. An adverse affect on the economy of downstate Illinois could negatively affect our profitability. The southwest Florida market is at risk of hurricanes each year which may cause damage to our assets and those of our customers. Hurricane damage could adversely affect our financial condition in a number of ways. Damage caused to a branch location could result in temporary closure and inconvenience to customers which could result in loss of customers and business. A hurricane could also affect the local economy and impact customers’ ability to meet loan repayment terms and adversely affect our financial condition. Hurricane damage could significantly reduce value of collateral pledged as security against loans made by us. 18 Table of Contents Growth and its impact on our infrastructure. Our continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future. We are required by federal and state regulations to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. As operations grow, the amount of capital required will increase. We may also be required to raise capital to support future acquisitions. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on our financial performance. If additional capital cannot be raised when needed, we could be subject to restricted growth which could negatively impact expansion through future acquisitions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 