Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights the risks management believes could adversely affect our financial performance. Additional possible risks that could affect us adversely and cannot be predicted may arise at any time. Other risks that are immaterial at this time may also have an adverse affect on our future financial condition. General economic or business conditions, particularly in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida, where our business is primarily conducted, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and earnings are directly affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, economic conditions in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida. These conditions include legislative and regulatory changes, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, employment rates, real estate values and sales prices and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, all of which are beyond our control. Since the financial crisis beginning in late 2007, the U.S. economy has generally experienced difficult economic conditions. Southwest Florida, in particular, has suffered particularly hard from these economic conditions in recent years and real estate activity and values continue to be negatively impacted. As a result, we have generally experienced a deterioration of asset quality in the southwest Florida market over this time period. Another downturn in economic conditions, particularly within our primary market area of downstate Illinois, or a continuation of current depressed economic conditions in southwest Florida, could result in a decrease in demand for our products and services, an increase in loan delinquencies and defaults, high or increased levels of problem assets and foreclosures and reduced wealth management fees resulting from lower asset values. If current economic conditions worsen or do not meaningfully improve, our business, growth and profitability may suffer. To the extent that our business customers’ underlying businesses are harmed as a result of the general economic environment, our customers are more likely to default on their loans. In addition, a deterioration in the national economy, or adverse change in agribusiness and capital goods exports, could materially adversely affect our downstate Illinois markets. These factors could lead to reduced interest income and future additional provisions for loan losses. Market volatility could have an adverse effect on us. The capital and credit markets have experienced periods of heightened volatility and disruption in recent years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If these heightened levels of market disruption and volatility return, we may experience material adverse effects on our customers’ and our ability to maintain or access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our primary sources of funds consist of cash from operations, investment maturities and sales, deposits and funds from sales of capital securities. Additional liquidity is provided by brokered deposits, bank lines of credit, repurchase agreements and the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us directly or the financial services industry or economy in general, such as disruptions in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry. Over the past few years, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by the U.S. and global economic climate as well as uncertainty with respect to the soundness of other financial institutions. These and other factors could negatively affect the Company’s ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions with other financial institutions, lead to market-wide liquidity problems, loss of depositor, creditor, and counterparty confidence which could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. 18 Table of Contents Any decline in available funding and/or capital could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, meet our expenses, pay dividends to our stockholders, or fulfill obligations such as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s performance depends significantly on the financial condition of and the economic conditions in the states in which it operates, particularly the State of Illinois. The largest portion of the Company’s customer base is within the State of Illinois whose financial condition is among the most troubled of any state in the United States with severe pension under-funding, chronic bill payment delays, and budget gaps. State budget restructuring to improve its financial condition may have negative financial effects on local governments and businesses, their employees, and directly and indirectly our customers. A continued lack of State budget restructuring to achieve budget balance and a decreased reliance on borrowing may also have negative financial effects on local governments and businesses, their employees, and directly and indirectly our customers. The Company is located in markets with significant university and healthcare presence, which rely heavily on state funding and contracts. The State of Illinois continues to be significantly behind on payments to its vendors and government sponsored entities. Further and continued payment lapses by the State of Illinois to its vendors and government sponsored entities may have significant, negative effects on our primary market areas, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our non-performing loans (which consist of non-accrual loans and loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing loans) totaled $38.5 million and $68.1 million, or 1.88% and 2.88% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans plus other real estate owned and other repossessed assets) were $47.0 million and $77.2 million, or 1.38% and 2.15% of total assets, respectively. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. While we pay interest expense to fund non-performing assets, we do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income and returns on assets and equity, and our loan administration costs increase and our efficiency ratio is adversely affected. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then-fair market value, which, when compared to the outstanding balance of the loan, may result in a loss. These non-performing loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. The resolution of non-performing assets requires significant time commitments from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There is no assurance that we will not experience increases in non-performing loans in the future, and our non-performing assets may result in further losses in the future. Our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to absorb actual losses in our loan portfolio. We establish our allowance for loan losses and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb probable loan losses based on a continual analysis of our portfolio and market environment. The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable losses in the portfolio at each balance sheet date and is based upon other relevant information available to us. The allowance contains provisions for probable losses that have been identified relating to specific borrowing relationships, as well as probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio and credit undertakings that are not specifically identified. Additions to the allowance for loan losses, which are charged to earnings through the provision for loan losses, are determined based on a variety of factors, including an analysis of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience and an evaluation of current economic conditions in the relevant market areas. The actual amount of loan losses is affected by changes in economic, operating and other conditions within our markets, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. Our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $58.5 million and $76.0 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 2.9% and 3.2%, respectively, and as a percentage of total non-performing loans was 151.9% and 111.6%, respectively. 19 Table of Contents Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, in light of the uncertain economic environment of recent years, there is no guarantee that we will not be required to record additional provisions for loan losses in the future, either due to management’s decision to do so or requirements by the regulators, to further supplement the allowance for loan losses, particularly if economic conditions unfold in a manner which differs significantly from what management currently expects. Additional provisions to the allowance for loan losses and loan losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the loans in our portfolio is secured by real estate. At December 31, 2011, approximately 81.4% of our loans were collateralized by real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the area in which the real estate is located. Adverse changes affecting real estate values and the liquidity of real estate in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, and could result in losses which would adversely affect profitability. Such changes have especially affected our southwest Florida market in recent years. Adverse changes in the economy affecting real estate values and liquidity generally, and in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida specifically, could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure without a loss or additional losses. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan which would result in losses. The effects of mortgage market challenges in recent years, combined with the depressed residential real estate market, have the potential to adversely affect our real estate loan portfolio in several ways, each of which could adversely affect our operating results and/or financial condition. In particular, as of December 31, 2011, approximately 5.1% of our loan portfolio consists of real estate construction loans, which primarily are loans made to home builders and developers. Demand for residential construction loans has been generally depressed in recent years, and a further decrease, or even a failure to meaningfully increase, in demand for the properties constructed by home builders and developers could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods on loans made to such borrowers. In addition, many Florida real estate markets, especially the markets in southwest Florida, where we have significant operations, have declined significantly in value since 2007. We believe that we have adequately provided for incurred losses in our southwest Florida operations. However, no assurance is given that our future loan losses and provisions for loan losses will not be higher or that our allowance for loan losses will be sufficient. Commercial and industrial loans make up a significant portion of our loan portfolio. Commercial and industrial loans were $407.9 million, or approximately 19.9% of our total loan portfolio, as of December 31, 2011. Our commercial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral is accounts receivable, inventory, machinery or real estate. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, which we require whenever appropriate on commercial loans. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Due to the larger average size of each commercial loan as compared with other loans such as residential loans, as well as collateral that is generally less readily-marketable, losses incurred on a small number of commercial loans could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Real estate construction, land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to significant losses on loans for these projects. Construction, land acquisition, and development loans comprised approximately 5.1% of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2011, and such lending involves additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation on real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. Credit risk cannot be eliminated. There are risks in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt and risks resulting from economic and market conditions. We attempt to reduce our credit risk through loan application approval procedures, monitoring the concentration of loans within specific industries and geographic location, and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review and audit departments as well as external parties. However, while such procedures should reduce our risks, they cannot be expected to completely eliminate our credit risks. If the overall economic climate in the United States, generally, and our market areas, specifically, worsens or fails to meaningfully improve, or even if it does, our borrowers may experience difficulties in repaying their loans, and the level of nonperforming loans, charge-offs and delinquencies could rise and require further increases in the provision for loan losses, which would cause our net income and return on equity to decrease. Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in interest rates may harm our financial performance. Our earnings and profitability depend significantly on our net interest income. Net interest income represents the difference between interest income and fees earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. In the event that interest paid on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments, there may be a negative impact on our net interest income. Changes in interest rates could also adversely affect the income of certain components of our noninterest income and affect the values of our investment securities. An increase in interest rates may also affect our customers’ ability to make payments on their loans, which could in turn increase loan losses. In addition, higher interest rates could also increase our costs of deposits and borrowed funds. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations in market interest rates, which are affected by the economy as well as fiscal and monetary policies; however, competition for loans in the marketplace and the overall interest rate environment has kept current interest rates low. Interest rates paid on deposit products have declined steadily since 2008, but further significant decline is unlikely as interest rates on deposits have approached zero. We expect to continue battling net interest margin compression in 2012 with interest rates at generational lows. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. First Busey, the Bank and Busey Wealth Management must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, no assurances can be made that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Our failure to continue to maintain capital ratios in excess of the amounts necessary to be considered “well capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common and preferred stock and to make distributions on our trust preferred securities, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, we had $29.9 million of brokered deposits, which represents 1.1% of our total deposits. Under FDIC rules, if Busey Bank ceases to meet the requirements to be considered a “well capitalized” institution for bank regulatory purposes, the interest rates that it pays on deposits and its ability to accept, renew or rollover deposits, particularly brokered deposits, may be restricted. We face the risk of possible future goodwill impairment. Because of a significant decline in our market capitalization during 2009, our goodwill related to our banking operations was determined to be fully impaired and we recorded an impairment charge of $208.2 million. We performed a valuation analysis of our remaining goodwill, $20.7 million related to Busey Wealth Management and FirsTech, as of December 31, 2011, and the first step of our goodwill analysis indicated no impairment existed. We will be required to perform additional goodwill impairment assessments on no less than an annual basis, and perhaps more frequently, which could result in further goodwill impairment charges. Any future goodwill impairment charge we are required to take could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by reducing our net income or increasing our net losses in the periods that we recognize an impairment charge. Issuances or sales of common stock or other equity securities could result in an “ownership change” as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If an ownership change were to occur, we could realize a loss of a portion of our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets, including certain built-in losses that have not been recognized for tax purposes, as a result of the operation of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The amount of the permanent loss would be determined by the annual limitation period and the carryforward period (generally up to 20 years for U.S. federal net operating losses). Any resulting loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While we did establish a full valuation allowance against certain state net operating loss carryforwards, we did not establish a valuation allowance against our U.S. federal or Illinois deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011, as we believed that it was more likely than not that all of these assets would be realized. An important element in our analysis was that we do not believe we have had an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Section 382 imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s net operating losses, certain recognized built-in losses and other carry-overs after an ownership change occurs. An ownership change generally occurs if the aggregate percentage ownership of the stock of the corporation held by one or more “5% stockholders” increases by more than 50 percentage points over the aggregate of such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period ending on the transaction date. Upon an ownership change, a corporation generally is subject to an annual limitation on its utilization of pre-ownership change losses, including certain recognized built-in losses, equal to the value of the stock of the corporation immediately before the ownership change (subject to certain adjustments), multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt rate. A number of special rules apply to calculating this annual limit. The annual limitation is increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. Because U.S. federal net operating losses generally may be carried forward for up to 20 years, the annual limitation may effectively provide a cap on the cumulative amount of pre-ownership change losses, including certain recognized built-in losses that may be utilized. Such pre-ownership change losses in excess of the cap may be lost. In addition, if an ownership change were to occur, it is possible that the limitations imposed on our ability to use pre-ownership change losses and certain recognized built-in losses could cause a net increase in our U.S. federal income tax liability and U.S. federal income taxes to be paid earlier than otherwise would be paid if such limitations were not in effect. The relevant calculations under Section 382 are technical and highly complex and depend on changes in percentage stock ownership among stockholders. If an ownership change were to occur, through the shares of common stock or otherwise, we currently believe that any limitations imposed on our use of pre-transaction losses by Section 382 will not significantly affect our ability to use such losses. In some circumstances, however, issuances or sales of our stock (including certain transactions involving our stock that are outside of our control) could result in an ownership change under Section 382. An ownership change could occur if, due to the sale or issuance of additional common stock, the aggregate ownership of one or more persons treated as “5% stockholders” were to increase by more than 50 percentage points over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the relevant testing period. There are currently no restrictions on the transfer of our stock that would discourage or prevent transactions that could cause an ownership change, although we may adopt such restrictions in the future. In addition, we have not obtained, and currently do not plan to obtain, a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service regarding our conclusion as to whether an ownership change has occurred and we are subject to limitations on our pre-ownership change losses and recognized built-in losses. 22 Table of Contents Furthermore, we may decide in the future that it is necessary or in our interest to take certain actions that could result in an ownership change. Therefore, no assurance can be provided as to whether an ownership change has occurred or will occur in the future. As of December 31, 2011, our net deferred tax asset reflected on our balance sheet was approximately $48.2 million. If an ownership change were to occur, it is possible that we could permanently lose the ability to realize a portion of this asset, resulting in reduction to our total stockholders’ equity. This could also decrease Busey Bank’s regulatory capital. We have a significant deferred tax asset and cannot assure it will be fully realized. We had net deferred tax assets of $48.2 million as of December 31, 2011. Other than a valuation allowance against certain state net operating loss carryforwards, we did not establish a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011, as we believe that it is more likely than not that all of these assets will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we estimated future taxable income based on management forecasts and tax planning strategies that may be available to us. This process required significant judgment by management about matters that are by their nature uncertain. If future events differ significantly from our current forecasts, we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a significant portion of the net deferred tax asset relates to a tax-effected $42.5 net operating loss carryforward and a tax-effected $23.8 million built-in loss related to book and tax differences in the loan loss provision as of December 31, 2011, the utilization of which may be further limited in the event of certain material changes in our ownership. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may increase our costs and impact our business, governance structure, financial condition or results of operations. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies. These regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which may adversely affect our business operations. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services that we provide as well as our costs of compliance with such regulations. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain customers. Economic conditions of recent years, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus and scrutiny on the financial services industry. In recent years, the U.S. government has intervened on an unprecedented scale by temporarily enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances and increasing insurance on bank deposits. This environment has subjected financial institutions to additional restrictions, oversight and costs. For example, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which significantly changed the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. In addition, new legislative and regulatory proposals continue to be introduced that could further substantially increase oversight of the financial services industry, impose restrictions on the operations and general ability of firms within the industry to conduct business consistent with historical practices, including in the areas of compensation, interest rates, financial product offerings and disclosures, and have an effect on bankruptcy proceedings with respect to consumer residential real estate mortgages, among other things. If these regulatory trends continue, they could adversely affect our business and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations. Monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to being affected by general economic conditions, our earnings and growth are affected by the policies of the Federal Reserve. An important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the money supply and credit conditions. Among the instruments used by the Federal Reserve to implement these objectives are open market operations in U.S. government securities, adjustments of the discount rate and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. These instruments are used in varying combinations to influence overall economic growth and the distribution of credit, bank loans, investments and deposits. Their use also affects interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. 23 Table of Contents The monetary policies and regulations of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The effects of such policies upon our business, financial condition and results of operations cannot be predicted. Legislative and regulatory reforms applicable to the financial services industry may, if enacted or adopted, have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which significantly changes the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a sweeping reform of the supervisory and regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions and capital markets in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act creates new federal governmental entities responsible for overseeing different aspects of the U.S. financial services industry, including identifying emerging systemic risks. It also shifts certain authorities and responsibilities among federal financial institution regulators, including the supervision of holding company affiliates and the regulation of consumer financial services and products. In particular, and among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act: creates a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection authorized to regulate providers of consumer credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services; narrows the scope of federal preemption of state consumer laws enjoyed by national banks and federal savings associations and expands the authority of state attorneys general to bring actions to enforce federal consumer protection legislation; imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies and subjects certain activities, including interstate mergers and acquisitions, to heightened capital conditions; significantly expands underwriting requirements applicable to loans secured by 1-4 family residential real property; restricts the interchange fees payable on debit card transactions for issuers with $10 billion in assets or greater; requires the originator of a securitized loan, or the sponsor of a securitization, to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of securitized exposures unless the underlying exposures are qualified residential mortgages or meet certain underwriting standards to be determined by regulation; creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council as part of a regulatory structure for identifying emerging systemic risks and improving interagency cooperation; provides for enhanced regulation of advisers to private funds and of the derivatives markets; enhances oversight of credit rating agencies; and prohibits banking agency requirements tied to credit ratings. The Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, eliminates certain trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital, but certain trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or less will continue to be includible in Tier 1 capital. This provision also requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Numerous provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are required to be implemented through rulemaking by the appropriate federal regulatory agencies. Some of the required regulations have been issued and some have been released for public comment, but many have yet to be released in any form. Furthermore, while the reforms primarily target systemically important financial service providers, their influence has, and is expected to continue to, filter down in varying degrees to smaller institutions. Management of First Busey and the Bank will continue to evaluate the effect of the changes; however, in many respects, the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be fully known for years, and no current assurance may be given that the Dodd-Frank Act, or any other new legislative changes, will not have a negative impact on the results of operations and financial condition of First Busey and the Bank. The U.S. Congress has also recently adopted additional consumer protection laws such as the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, and the Federal Reserve has adopted numerous new regulations addressing banks’ credit card, overdraft and mortgage lending practices. Additional consumer protection legislation and regulatory activity is anticipated in the near future. 24 Table of Contents The Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, adopted Basel III in September 2010, which is a strengthened set of capital requirements for banking organizations in the United States and around the world. Basel III is currently supported by the U.S. federal banking agencies. As agreed to, Basel III is intended to be fully phased in on a global basis on January 1, 2019. However, the ultimate timing and scope of any U.S. implementation of Basel III remains uncertain. As agreed to, Basel III would require, among other things: (i) an increase in the minimum required common equity to 7% of total assets; (ii) an increase in the minimum required amount of Tier 1 capital from the current level of 4% of total assets to 8.5% of total assets; (iii) an increase in the minimum required amount of total capital, from the current level of 8% to 10.5%. Each of these increased requirements includes 2.5% attributable to a capital conservation buffer to position banking organizations to absorb losses during periods of financial and economic stress. Basel III also calls for certain items that are currently included in regulatory capital to be deducted from common equity and Tier 1 capital. The Basel III agreement calls for national jurisdictions to implement the new requirements beginning January 1, 2013. At that time, the U.S. federal banking agencies will be expected to have implemented appropriate changes to incorporate the Basel III concepts into U.S. capital adequacy standards. Basel III changes, as implemented in the United States, will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards for all banking organizations. Such proposals and legislation, if finally adopted, would change banking laws and our operating environment and that of our subsidiaries in substantial and unpredictable ways. We cannot determine whether such proposals and legislation will be adopted, or the ultimate effect that such proposals and legislation, if enacted, or regulations issued to implement the same, would have upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could negatively affect us. We have historically pursued a strategy of supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions in our market areas and in nearby markets that will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. As our capital position and asset quality allow, we may again supplement organic growth through acquisitions, possibly through FDIC-assisted transactions involving acquisitions of failed depository institutions. There are risks associated with an acquisition strategy, however, including the following: · We are exposed to potential asset and credit quality risks and unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks or businesses we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our earnings and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. · Prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices our management considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future in one or more markets. · The acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity in order to make the transaction economically feasible. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. · To finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or issue capital stock to the sellers in an acquisition or to third parties to raise capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. · We may be unsuccessful in realizing the anticipated benefits from any future acquisitions. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings and legislation imposing new compensation restrictions could adversely affect our ability to do so. Much of our success and growth has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain executive officers, current management teams, lending and retail banking officers, and administrative staff of our subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical to be able to attract and retain qualified staff with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Further, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have issued guidelines with respect to certain compensation practices of financial institutions and additional compensation related restrictions are expected to be implemented under the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. These rules may make it more difficult to attract and retain the people we need to operate our businesses and limit our ability to promote our objectives through our compensation and incentive programs. Our wealth management business may be negatively impacted by changes in economic and market conditions. Our wealth management business may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic conditions and the conditions in the financial and securities markets, including the values of assets held under management. Our management contracts generally provide for fees payable for wealth management services based on the market value of assets under management. Because most of our contracts provide for a fee based on market values of securities, declines in securities prices will have an adverse effect on our results of operations from this business. Market declines and reductions in the value of our customers’ wealth management accounts, could also result in the loss of wealth management customers, including those who are also banking customers. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking and wealth management services, which could harm our business. We currently conduct our banking operations primarily in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida. In addition, we currently offer fiduciary and wealth management services through Busey Wealth Management, which is headquartered in Champaign, Illinois, and accounts for a significant portion of our noninterest income. Many competitors offer the same, or a wider variety of, banking and wealth management services within our market areas. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In addition, a number of out-of-state financial intermediaries have opened production offices or otherwise solicit deposits in our market areas. Increased competition in our markets may result in reduced loans, deposits and commissions and brokers’ fees, as well as reduced net interest margin and profitability. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we are unable to attract and retain banking and wealth management customers, we may be unable to grow our loan and deposit portfolios and our commissions and brokers’ fees, and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. Although we have procedures in place to prevent or limit the effects of any of these potential problems and intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such occurrences, there can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Any interruption in, or breach in security of, our computer systems and network infrastructure could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents We are subject to certain operational risks, including, but not limited to, customer or employee fraud and data processing system failures and errors. Employee errors and misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of our customers or improper use of confidential information. It is not always possible to prevent employee errors and misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Employee errors could also subject us to financial claims for negligence. We maintain a system of internal controls and insurance coverage to mitigate operational risks, including data processing system failures and errors and customer or employee fraud. Should our internal controls fail to prevent or detect an occurrence, or if any resulting loss is not insured or exceeds applicable insurance limits, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could recognize losses on securities held in our securities portfolio, particularly if interest rates increase or economic and market conditions deteriorate. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of our securities available for sale was approximately $831.7 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. For example, fixed-rate securities acquired by us are generally subject to decreases in market value when interest rates rise. Additional factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency downgrades of the securities, defaults by the issuer or individual mortgagors with respect to the underlying securities, and continued instability in the credit markets. Any of the foregoing factors could cause an other-than-temporary impairment in future periods and result in realized losses. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary usually requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting interest rates, the financial condition of issuers of the securities and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may recognize realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Downgrades in the credit rating of one or more insurers that provide credit enhancement for our state and municipal securities portfolio may have an adverse impact on the market for and valuation of these types of securities. We invest in tax-exempt state and local municipal securities, some of which are insured by monoline insurers. As of December 31, 2011, we had $154.4 million of municipal securities, which represented 18.6% of our total securities portfolio. Since the economic crisis unfolded in 2008, several of these insurers have come under scrutiny by rating agencies. Even though management generally purchases municipal securities on the overall credit strength of the issuer, the reduction in the credit rating of an insurer may negatively impact the market for and valuation of our investment securities. Such downgrade could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The downgrade of the U.S. credit rating and Europe’s debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+ on August 5, 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. Any such adverse impact could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our investment securities are issued by U.S. government sponsored entities. In addition, the possibility that certain European Union (“EU”) member states will default on their debt obligations have negatively impacted economic conditions and global markets. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of international and the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets could also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial institutions could negatively affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be negatively affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of the difficulties or failures of other banks, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. Adverse weather affecting the markets we serve could hurt our business and prospects for growth. We conduct a significant portion of our business in downstate Illinois. Downstate Illinois is a highly agricultural area and therefore the economy can be greatly affected by severe weather conditions, including droughts, storms, tornados and flooding. Unfavorable weather conditions may decrease agricultural productivity or could result in damage to our branch locations or the property of our customers, all of which could adversely affect the local economy. An adverse effect on the economy of downstate Illinois could negatively affect our profitability. The southwest Florida market is at risk of hurricanes and related flooding and wind damage, which may cause damage to our assets and those of our customers. Hurricane damage could adversely affect our financial condition in a number of ways. Damage caused to a branch location could result in temporary closure and inconvenience to customers which could result in loss of customers and business. A hurricane could also affect the local economy and impact customers’ ability to meet loan repayment terms and adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, hurricane-related damage could significantly reduce the values of collateral pledged as security against loans made by us. Insurance may not be available or sufficient to cover weather-related damage. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 