Item 1A Risk Factors Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2 Properties Item 3 Legal Proceedings Item 4 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Part II Item 5 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6 Selected Financial Data Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A Controls and Procedures Item 9B Other Information Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11 Executive Compensation Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services Part IV Item 15 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Part I Item 1. Business Introduction First Busey Corporation (“First Busey” or the “Company”), a Nevada Corporation, is a $4.2 billion financial holding company which was initially organized as a bank holding company in 1980. First Busey conducts a broad range of financial services through its banking and non-banking subsidiaries at 55 locations. First Busey currently has two wholly-owned banking subsidiaries, Busey Bank and Busey Bank, National Association (“Busey Bank, N.A.” and together with Busey Bank, the “Banks”) with locations in three states. First Busey is headquartered in Urbana, Illinois, and its common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “BUSE.” On August 1, 2007, First Busey and Main Street Trust, Inc. (“Main Street”) completed a merger of equals transaction. Main Street Bank & Trust, Main Street’s banking subsidiary, was combined with Busey Bank in November 2007 and Main Street Bank & Trust’s trust department was combined with Busey Trust Company in November 2007. In connection with the Main Street merger, First Busey sold the net assets of five banking centers on November 2, 2007, representing approximately 1% of consolidated loans and 3% of consolidated deposits of First Busey at that time. On July 29, 2005, First Busey acquired Tarpon Coast Bancorp, Inc., parent of Tarpon Coast National Bank and its subsidiary Tarpon Coast Financial Services. In February 2006, Busey Bank Florida merged into Tarpon Coast National Bank, and the surviving bank’s name changed to Busey Bank, National Association (“Busey Bank, N.A.”) consolidating all banking activities of the two banks under one charter. Busey Bank, N.A. is a nationally-chartered bank based in Fort Myers, Florida, with nine locations in southwest Florida. On April 1, 2005, Main Street acquired all of the outstanding stock of Citizens First Financial Corp. (“Citizens”), which was the parent company of Citizens Savings Bank, based in Bloomington, Illinois. Citizens Savings Bank merged into Main Street Bank & Trust on the close of business on October 7, 2005. Business of First Busey First Busey conducts the business of banking and related services through the Banks, trust and investment management services through Busey Wealth Management, Inc. (“Busey Wealth Management”) and retail payment processing through FirsTech, Inc. (“FirsTech”). Busey Bank is an Illinois state-chartered bank organized in 1868 with its headquarters in Champaign, Illinois. Busey Bank has 45 locations in Illinois, including one in Florida and one in Indianapolis, Indiana. Busey Bank, N.A. is a national bank organized in 1999 with its headquarters in Fort Myers, Florida. The Banks offer a full range of banking services, including commercial, financial, agricultural and real estate loans, and retail banking services, including accepting customary types of demand and savings deposits, making individual, consumer, installment, first mortgage and second mortgage loans, offering money transfers, safe deposit services, IRA, Keogh and other fiduciary services, automated banking and automated fund transfers. The Banks’ principal sources of income are interest and fees on loans and investments and service fees. Their principal expenses are interest paid on deposits and general operating expenses. Busey Bank’s primary service area is downstate Illinois, southwest Florida through its loan production office and central Indiana. Busey Bank, N.A.’s service area is southwest Florida. The Banks’ loan portfolios are comprised primarily of loans in the areas of commercial loans, commercial real estate, residential real estate, agricultural and farmland and consumer lending. As of December 31, 2007, real estate-mortgage loans (including commercial and residential real estate) made up approximately 56.8% of the Banks’ loan portfolio, construction lending comprised approximately 23.9%, commercial loans comprised approximately 14.5%, consumer installments loans comprised approximately 1.8%, real estate-farmland comprised approximately 1.6% and agricultural loans comprised approximately 1.3%. 1 Busey Wealth Management (formerly Busey Investment Group, Inc.), a wholly-owned non-banking subsidiary of First Busey, is located in Champaign, Illinois. Busey Wealth Management is the parent company of Busey Trust Company (formerly First Busey Trust & Investment Co.), which provides a full range of trust and investment management services, including estate and financial planning, tax preparation, custody services, philanthropic advisory services, brokerage services and investment advice. Busey Capital Management is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Busey Trust Company, which primarily serves to isolate performance data on certain managed investment portfolios. First Busey Securities, Inc. and Busey Insurance Services, Inc. were dissolved December 2007. FirsTech, Inc., a wholly owned non-banking subsidiary of Busey Bank, N.A., with offices in Decatur, Illinois, and Clayton, Missouri, is a retail payment processing company that processes over 27 million transactions per year through online bill payments, lockbox processing and walk-in payments through its 4,000 agent locations in 36 states. First Busey Resources, Inc., a wholly owned non-banking subsidiary, located in Urbana, Illinois, manages one real estate property which is not currently used in banking activities. First Busey Statutory Trust II, a statutory business trust, was organized in the state of Connecticut in April 2004. First Busey owns all of the common securities of First Busey Statutory Trust II. First Busey Statutory Trust III, a statutory business trust was organized in the state of Delaware in June 2005. First Busey owns all of the common securities of First Busey Statutory Trust III. First Busey Statutory Trust IV, a statutory business trust was organized in the state of Delaware in June 2006. First Busey owns all of the common securities of First Busey Statutory Trust IV. See Note 21 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an analysis of segment operations. Competition The Banks compete actively with national and state banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions for deposits and loans primarily in downstate Illinois (primarily Champaign, Ford, Macon, McLean, Peoria and Tazewell counties), southwest Florida (primarily Charlotte, Lee and Sarasota counties), and central Indiana (primarily Hamilton and Marion counties). In addition, First Busey and its non-bank subsidiaries compete with other financial institutions, including asset management and trust companies, security broker/dealers, personal loan companies, insurance companies, finance companies, leasing companies, mortgage companies, remittance processing companies, and certain governmental agencies, all of which actively engage in marketing various types of loans, deposit accounts, and other products and services. We compete for real estate and other loans primarily on the basis of the interest rates and loan fees it charges, the types of loans it originates and the quality of services it provides to borrowers. The Banks face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other commercial banks, savings institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions, insurance agencies, brokerage firms, and other investment vehicles. The ability of the Banks to attract and retain deposits depends on its ability to provide investment opportunities that satisfy the requirements of investors as to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. The Banks attract a significant amount of deposits through their branch offices, primarily from the communities in which those branch offices are located; therefore, competition for those deposits is principally from other commercial banks, savings institutions, and credit unions located in the same communities. The Banks compete for these deposits by offering a variety of deposit accounts at competitive rates, high-quality customer service, convenient business hours, internet banking, and convenient branch locations with interbranch deposit and withdrawal privileges at each. Based on information obtained from FDIC Summary of Deposits dated June 30, 2007, First Busey ranked in the top ten in total deposits in five Illinois counties, first in Champaign County, first in Ford County, second in Macon County, third in McLean County, and eighth in Peoria County. Customers for banking services are generally influenced by convenience, quality of service, personal contacts, price of services and availability of products. Although the market share of First Busey varies in different markets, First Busey believes that its affiliates effectively compete with other banks, thrifts and financial institutions in their relevant market areas. 2 Monetary Policy and Economic Conditions The earnings of commercial banks and bank holding companies are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by the policies of various governmental regulatory agencies. In particular, the Federal Reserve regulates money and credit conditions and interest rates in order to influence general economic conditions and interest rates, primarily through open market operations in U.S. government securities, varying the discount rate on member banks and nonmember bank borrowings and setting reserve requirements against bank deposits. Such Federal Reserve policies and acts have a significant influence on overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments, deposits and related interest rates. We cannot accurately predict the effect, if any, such policies and acts may have in the future on its business or earnings. Supervision, Regulation and Other Factors General Financial institutions, their holding companies and their affiliates are extensively regulated under federal and state law. As a result, the growth and earnings performance of First Busey may be affected not only by management decisions and general economic conditions, but also by the requirements of federal and state statutes and by the regulations and policies of various bank regulatory authorities, including the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (the “DFPR”), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”). Furthermore, taxation laws administered by the Internal Revenue Service and state taxing authorities and securities laws administered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and state securities authorities have an impact on the business of First Busey. The effect of these statutes, regulations and regulatory policies may be significant, and cannot be predicted with a high degree of certainty. Federal and state laws and regulations generally applicable to financial institutions regulate, among other things, the scope of business, the kinds and amounts of investments, reserve requirements, capital levels relative to operations, the nature and amount of collateral for loans, the establishment of branches, mergers and consolidations and the payment of dividends. This system of supervision and regulation establishes a comprehensive framework for the respective operations of First Busey and its subsidiaries and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC-insured deposits and depositors of the Banks rather than stockholders. The following is a summary of the material elements of the regulatory framework that applies to First Busey and its subsidiaries. It does not describe all of the statutes, regulations and regulatory policies that apply, nor does it restate all of the requirements of those that are described. As such, the following is qualified in its entirety by reference to applicable law. Any change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies may have a material effect on the business of First Busey and its subsidiaries. First Busey General First Busey, as the sole shareholder of the Banks, is a financial holding company. As a financial holding company, First Busey is registered with, and is subject to regulation by, the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHCA”). In accordance with Federal Reserve policy, First Busey is expected to act as a source of financial strength to the Banks and to commit resources to support the Banks in circumstances where First Busey might not otherwise do so. Under the BHCA, First Busey is subject to periodic examination by the Federal Reserve. First Busey is also required to file with the Federal Reserve periodic reports of First Busey’s operations and such additional information regarding First Busey and its subsidiaries as the Federal Reserve may require. Acquisitions, Activities and Change in Control The primary purpose of a bank holding company is to control and manage banks. The BHCA generally requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve for any merger involving a bank holding company or any acquisition by a bank holding company of another bank or bank holding company. Subject to certain conditions (including deposit concentration limits established by the BHCA), the Federal Reserve may allow a bank holding company to acquire banks located in any state of the United States. In approving interstate acquisitions, the Federal Reserve is required to give effect to applicable state law limitations on the aggregate amount of deposits that may be held by the acquiring bank holding company and its insured depository institution affiliates in the state in which the target bank is located (provided that those limits do not discriminate against out-of-state depository institutions or their holding companies) and state laws that require that the target bank have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) before being acquired by an out-of-state bank holding company. 3 The BHCA generally prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company that is not a bank and from engaging in any business other than that of banking, managing and controlling banks or furnishing services to banks and their subsidiaries. This general prohibition is subject to a number of exceptions. The principal exception allows bank holding companies to engage in, and to own shares of companies engaged in, certain businesses found by the Federal Reserve to be “so closely related to banking ... as to be a proper incident thereto.” This authority would permit First Busey to engage in a variety of banking-related businesses, including the operation of a thrift, consumer finance, equipment leasing, the operation of a computer service bureau (including software development), and mortgage banking and brokerage. The BHCA generally does not place territorial restrictions on the domestic activities of non-bank subsidiaries of bank holding companies. Additionally, bank holding companies that meet certain eligibility requirements prescribed by the BHCA and elect to operate as financial holding companies may engage in, or own shares in companies engaged in, a wider range of nonbanking activities, including securities and insurance underwriting and sales, merchant banking and any other activity that the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines by regulation or order is financial in nature, incidental to any such financial activity or complementary to any such financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. First Busey has elected (and the Federal Reserve has accepted First Busey’s election) to operate as a financial holding company. Federal law also prohibits any person or company from acquiring “control” of an FDIC-insured depository institution or its holding company without prior notice to the appropriate federal bank regulator. “Control” is conclusively presumed to exist upon the acquisition of 25% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a bank or bank holding company, but may arise under certain circumstances at 10% ownership. Capital Requirements Bank holding companies are required to maintain minimum levels of capital in accordance with Federal Reserve capital adequacy guidelines. If capital levels fall below the minimum required levels, a bank holding company, among other things, may be denied approval to acquire or establish additional banks or non-bank businesses. The Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines establish the following minimum regulatory capital requirements for bank holding companies: (i) a risk-based requirement expressed as a percentage of total assets weighted according to risk; and (ii) a leverage requirement expressed as a percentage of total assets. The risk-based requirement consists of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4%. The leverage requirement consists of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 3% for the most highly rated companies, with a minimum requirement of 4% for all others. For purposes of these capital standards, Tier 1 capital consists primarily of permanent stockholders’ equity less intangible assets (other than certain loan servicing rights and purchased credit card relationships). Total capital consists primarily of Tier 1 capital plus certain other debt and equity instruments that do not qualify as Tier 1 capital and a portion of First Busey’s allowance for loan and lease losses. The risk-based and leverage standards described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual banking organizations. For example, the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines contemplate that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest-rate risk, or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. Further, any banking organization experiencing or anticipating significant growth would be expected to maintain capital ratios, including tangible capital positions (i.e., Tier 1 capital less all intangible assets), well above the minimum levels. As of December 31, 2007, First Busey had regulatory capital in excess of the Federal Reserve’s minimum requirements. Dividend Payments First Busey’s ability to pay dividends to its stockholders may be affected by both general corporate law considerations and policies of the Federal Reserve applicable to bank holding companies. As a Nevada corporation, First Busey is subject to the limitations of Nevada law, which allows First Busey to pay dividends unless, after such dividend, First Busey would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or First Busey’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus any amount that would be needed if First Busey were to be dissolved at the time of the dividend payment. Additionally, policies of the Federal Reserve caution that a bank holding company should not pay cash dividends unless its net income available to common stockholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with its capital needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve also possesses enforcement powers over bank holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries to prevent or remedy actions that represent unsafe or unsound practices or violations of applicable statutes and regulations. Among these powers is the ability to proscribe the payment of dividends by banks and bank holding companies. 4 Federal Securities Regulation First Busey’s common stock is registered with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Consequently, First Busey is subject to the information, proxy solicitation and other restrictions and requirements of the SEC under the Exchange Act. THE BANKS General Busey Bank, National Association is a national bank chartered by the OCC under the National Bank Act and is also a member of the Federal Reserve System. Busey Bank is an Illinois-chartered bank. The deposit accounts of the Banks are insured by the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) to the maximum extent provided under federal law and FDIC regulations. As a national bank, Busey Bank, N.A. is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the OCC, the chartering authority for national banks. The FDIC, as administrator of the DIF, also has regulatory authority over Busey Bank, N.A.. As an Illinois-chartered FDIC-insured bank, Busey Bank is subject to the examination, supervision, reporting and enforcement requirements of the DFPR, the chartering authority for Illinois banks, and the FDIC, designated by federal law as the primary federal regulator of insured state banks that, like Busey Bank, are not members of the Federal Reserve System (“non-member banks”). Busey Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank System, which provides a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. Deposit Insurance As FDIC-insured institutions, the Banks are required to pay deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system whereby FDIC-insured depository institutions pay insurance premiums at rates based on their risk classification. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to the regulators. Under the regulations of the FDIC, as presently in effect, insurance assessments range from 0.05% to 0.43% of total deposits (subject to adjustment by the FDIC and the application of assessment credits, if any, issued by the FDIC in 2007). FICO Assessments The Financing Corporation (“FICO”) is a mixed-ownership governmental corporation chartered by the former Federal Home Loan Bank Board pursuant to the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Recapitalization Act of 1987 to function as a financing vehicle for the recapitalization of the former Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FICO issued 30-year non-callable bonds of approximately $8.2 billion that mature by 2019. Since 1996, federal legislation has required that all FDIC-insured depository institutions pay assessments to cover interest payments on FICO’s outstanding obligations. These FICO assessments are in addition to amounts assessed by the FDIC for deposit insurance. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the FICO assessment rate was approximately 0.01% of deposits. Supervisory Assessments National banks are required to pay supervisory assessments to the OCC to fund the operations of the agency. The amount of the assessment paid to the OCC is calculated using a formula that takes into account the bank’s size and its supervisory condition (as determined by the composite rating assigned to the bank as a result of its most recent OCC examination). During the year ended December 31, 2007, Busey Bank, N.A. paid supervisory assessments to the OCC totaling $0.1 million. Illinois-chartered banks are required to pay supervisory assessments to the DFPR to fund its operations. The amount of the assessment paid by an Illinois bank to the DFPR is calculated on the basis of the institution’s total assets, including consolidated subsidiaries, as reported to the DFPR. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Main Street Bank & Trust, which has been merged into Busey Bank, and Busey Bank paid supervisory assessments to the DFPR totaling $0.3 million. Capital Requirements Banks are generally required to maintain capital levels in excess of other businesses. The federal bank regulatory agencies have established the following minimum capital standards for insured state non-member banks and national banks, such as the Banks: (i) a leverage requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets of 3% for the most highly-rated banks with a minimum requirement of at least 4% for all others; and (ii) a risk-based capital requirement consisting of a minimum ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 4%. In general, the components of Tier 1 capital and total capital are the same as those for bank holding companies discussed above. 5 The capital requirements described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual institutions. For example, federal regulations provide that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. Further, federal law and regulations provide various incentives for financial institutions to maintain regulatory capital at levels in excess of minimum regulatory requirements. For example, a financial institution that is “well-capitalized” may qualify for exemptions from prior notice or application requirements otherwise applicable to certain types of activities and may qualify for expedited processing of other required notices or applications. Additionally, one of the criteria that determines a bank holding company’s eligibility to operate as a financial holding company is a requirement that all of its financial institution subsidiaries be “well-capitalized.” Under the regulations of the FDIC and the OCC, in order to be “well-capitalized” a financial institution must maintain a ratio of total capital to total risk-weighted assets of 10% or greater, a ratio of Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets of 6% or greater and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets of 5% or greater. Federal law also provides the federal banking regulators with broad power to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The extent of the regulators’ powers depends on whether the institution in question is “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized,” in each case as defined by regulation. Depending upon the capital category to which an institution is assigned, the regulators’ corrective powers include: (i) requiring the institution to submit a capital restoration plan; (ii) limiting the institution’s asset growth and restricting its activities; (iii) requiring the institution to issue additional capital stock (including additional voting stock) or to be acquired; (iv) restricting transactions between the institution and its affiliates; (v) restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on deposits; (vi) ordering a new election of directors of the institution; (vii) requiring that senior executive officers or directors be dismissed; (viii) prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; (ix) requiring the institution to divest certain subsidiaries; (x) prohibiting the payment of principal or interest on subordinated debt; and (xi) ultimately, appointing a receiver for the institution. As of December 31, 2007: (i) neither of the Banks was subject to a directive from its primary federal regulator to increase its capital to an amount in excess of the minimum regulatory capital requirements; (ii) each of the Banks exceeded its minimum regulatory capital requirements under applicable capital adequacy guidelines; and (iii) each of the Banks was “well-capitalized,” as defined by applicable regulations. Dividend Payments The primary source of funds for First Busey is dividends from the Banks. Under the Illinois Banking Act, Busey Bank generally may not pay dividends in excess of its net profits. Under the National Bank Act, Busey Bank, N.A. may pay dividends out of its undivided profits in such amounts and at such times as its board of directors deems prudent. Without prior OCC approval, however, Busey Bank, N.A. may not pay dividends in any calendar year that, in the aggregate, exceed its year-to-date net income plus its retained net income for the two preceding years. The payment of dividends by any financial institution is affected by the requirement to maintain adequate capital pursuant to applicable capital adequacy guidelines and regulations, and a financial institution generally is prohibited from paying any dividends if, following payment thereof, the institution would be undercapitalized. As described above, each of the Banks exceeded its minimum capital requirements under applicable guidelines as of December 31, 2007. Notwithstanding the availability of funds for dividends, however, the FDIC (in the case of Busey Bank) and the OCC (in the case of Busey Bank, N.A.) may prohibit the payment of dividends if it determines such payment would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Insider Transactions The Banks are subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to First Busey and its subsidiaries, on investments in the stock or other securities of First Busey and its subsidiaries and the acceptance of the stock or other securities of First Busey or its subsidiaries as collateral for loans made by the Banks. Certain limitations and reporting requirements are also placed on extensions of credit by the Banks to their directors and officers, to directors and officers of First Busey and its subsidiaries, to principal stockholders of First Busey and to “related interests” of such directors, officers and principal stockholders. In addition, federal law and regulations may affect the terms upon which any person who is a director or officer of First Busey or any of its subsidiaries or a principal shareholder of First Busey may obtain credit from banks with which the Banks maintain correspondent relationships. 6 Safety and Soundness Standards The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines that establish operational and managerial standards to promote the safety and soundness of federally insured depository institutions. The guidelines set forth standards for internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits, asset quality and earnings. In general, the safety and soundness guidelines prescribe the goals to be achieved in each area, and each institution is responsible for establishing its own procedures to achieve those goals. If an institution fails to comply with any of the standards set forth in the guidelines, the institution’s primary federal regulator may require the institution to submit a plan for achieving and maintaining compliance. If an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan, or fails in any material respect to implement a compliance plan that has been accepted by its primary federal regulator, the regulator is required to issue an order directing the institution to cure the deficiency. Until the deficiency cited in the regulator’s order is cured, the regulator may restrict the institution’s rate of growth, require the institution to increase its capital, restrict the rates the institution pays on deposits or require the institution to take any action the regulator deems appropriate under the circumstances. Noncompliance with the standards established by the safety and soundness guidelines may also constitute grounds for other enforcement action by the federal banking regulators, including cease and desist orders and civil money penalty assessments. Branching Authority Illinois banks, such as Busey Bank, have the authority under Illinois law to establish branches anywhere in the State of Illinois, subject to receipt of all required regulatory approvals. National banks headquartered in Florida, such as Busey Bank, N.A., have the same branching rights in Florida as banks chartered under Florida law, subject to OCC approval. Federal law permits state and national banks to merge with banks in other states subject to: (i) regulatory approval; (ii) federal and state deposit concentration limits; and (iii) state law limitations requiring the merging bank to have been in existence for a minimum period of time (not to exceed five years) prior to the merger. The establishment of new interstate branches or the acquisition of individual branches of a bank in another state (rather than the acquisition of an out-of-state bank in its entirety) is permitted only in those states the laws of which expressly authorize such expansion. State Bank Investments and Activities Busey Bank generally is permitted to make investments and engage in activities directly or through subsidiaries as authorized by Illinois law. However, under federal law and FDIC regulations, FDIC-insured state banks are prohibited, subject to certain exceptions, from making or retaining equity investments of a type, or in an amount, that are not permissible for a national bank. Federal law and FDIC regulations also prohibit FDIC-insured state banks and their subsidiaries, subject to certain exceptions, from engaging as principal in any activity that is not permitted for a national bank unless the bank meets, and continues to meet, its minimum regulatory capital requirements and the FDIC determines the activity would not pose a significant risk to the deposit insurance fund of which the bank is a member. These restrictions have not had, and are not currently expected to have, a material impact on the operations of Busey Bank. Financial Subsidiaries Under federal law and OCC regulations, national banks are authorized to engage, through “financial subsidiaries,” in any activity that is permissible for a financial holding company and any activity that the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Federal Reserve, determines is financial in nature or incidental to any such financial activity, except (i) insurance underwriting, (ii) real estate development or real estate investment activities (unless otherwise permitted by law), (iii) insurance company portfolio investments and (iv) merchant banking. The authority of a national bank to invest in a financial subsidiary is subject to a number of conditions, including, among other things, requirements that the bank must be well-managed and well-capitalized (after deducting from capital the bank’s outstanding investments in financial subsidiaries). Busey Bank, N.A. has not applied for approval to establish any financial subsidiaries. Federal Reserve System Federal Reserve regulations, as presently in effect, require depository institutions to maintain non-interest earning reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). These reserve requirements are subject to annual adjustment by the Federal Reserve. The Banks are in compliance with the requirements. Employees As of December 31, 2007, First Busey and its subsidiaries had a total of 1,023 employees (full-time and equivalents). 7 Executive Officers Following is a description of the business experience for at least the past five years of our executive officers. Van A. Dukeman. Mr. Dukeman, age 49, has served as a Director, Chief Executive Officer and President of First Busey Corporation since August 2007. Previously, Mr. Dukeman served as a Director, Chief Executive Officer and President of Main Street Trust, Inc. until its merger with First Busey. Barbara J. Harrington. Mrs. Harrington, age 48, has served as Chief Financial Officer of First Busey Corporation since March 1999. She served as Controller and Senior Vice President of Busey Bank from December 1994, to March 1999. Mrs. Harrington has served in various financial and accounting positions since joining the organization in 1991. Thomas M. Good. Mr. Good, age 55, has served as interim President and Chief Executive Officer of Busey Bank, N. A. since September 2007. In addition, Mr. Good serves as Executive Vice President of First Busey Corporation supervising the Risk Management Division, a position he has held since joining the organization in 2001. David D. Mills. Mr. Mills, age 37, has served as Executive Vice President of First Busey Corporation since August 2007. Previously, Mr. Mills served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Busey Bank from January 2003 until August 2007, and as Vice President of First Busey Corporation from December 2001 to January 2003. Mr. Mills began his career with Busey Bank in 1998, as a Commercial Lending Officer. Mr. Mills’ father is Douglas C. Mills, Chairman of the Board of First Busey Corporation. Lee H. O’Neill. Mr. O’Neill, age 63, has served as Chief Executive Officer of Busey Bank since September 2006. Previously, Mr. O’Neill served as Executive Vice President, Chief Credit Officer and Regional President of Busey Bank from 1985 to September 2006. Mr. O’Neill joined the Commercial Banking Division with Busey Bank in 1983. David B. White. Mr. White, age 56, has served as Chief Operating Officer of First Busey Corporation since August 2007. Previously, Mr. White served as Chief Financial Officer of Main Street Trust, Inc. until its merger with First Busey. Securities and Exchange Commission Reporting and Other Information First Busey’s web site address is www.busey.com. We make available on this web site our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments thereto, as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the SEC, and in any event, on the same day as such filing with the SEC. Reference to this web site does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the web site and should not be considered part of this document. First Busey has adopted a code of ethics applicable to our employees, officers, and directors. The text of this code of ethics may be found under “Investor Relations” on our website. www.busey.com 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights the risks management believes could adversely affect our financial performance. Additional possible risks that could affect us adversely and cannot be predicted, may arise at any time. Other risks that are immaterial at this time may also have an adverse affect on our future financial condition. Difficulty in combining our operations with those of Main Street may prevent the achievement of the expected benefits of the transaction. We may not be able to achieve the expected strategic and operating benefits contemplated at the time of the merger with Main Street. Many uncertainties are inherent in a business combination and we may have difficulty: · integrating the operations of Main Street and First Busey; · maintaining existing relationships with depositors and borrowers; and · controlling the incremental non-interest expenses related to the merger so as to maintain overall operating efficiencies. These uncertainties may lead to lower than plan realization of benefits following the business combination. A downturn in the economy could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate may be different than expected. Our business and earnings are directly affected by general business and economic conditions in the U.S. and, in particular, economic conditions in downstate Illinois and southwest Florida. These conditions include legislative and regulatory changes, short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, and changes in government monetary and fiscal policies, all of which are beyond our control. A downturn in economic condition could result in a decrease in products and services demand, an increase in loan delinquencies, and increases in problem assets and foreclosures. Real estate pledged as collateral for loans made by us may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. These factors could lead to reduced interest income and an increase in the provision for loan losses. A significant portion of the loans in our portfolio is secured by real estate. A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. Adverse changes affecting real estate values in one or more of our markets could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio, and could result in losses which would adversely affect profitability. An adverse change in the economy affecting real estate values generally and, specifically, in downstate Illinois or southwest Florida, could significantly impair the value of property pledged as collateral on loans and affect our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. Collateral may have to be sold for less than the outstanding balance of the loan which could result in loss. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, has the potential to adversely affect our real estate loan portfolio in several ways, each of which could adversely affect our operating results and/or financial condition. First, as noted above, approximately 23.9% of our loan portfolio consists of real estate construction loans, which primarily are loans made to home builders and developers. A decrease in demand for the properties constructed by home builders and developers could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods on loans made to such borrowers. Second, many Florida real estate markets, including the markets in southwest Florida, where the Banks operate, have declined in value throughout 2007 and may continue to undergo a period of slowdown. A continuation of the softening real estate market in the southwest Florida market could result in a reduction in loan origination activity and increases in non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for loan losses in that region. Third, the current market environment has led to a slowdown in the demand for residential real estate loans, which constitute a significant part of our overall portfolio. A slowdown in residential real estate lending may require us to devote a larger portion of our total assets to lower yielding investment securities, which could adversely affect our net interest margin. 9 Finally, if the problems that have occurred in the residential real estate and mortgage markets were to spread to the commercial real estate market, particularly within our market area, the value of collateral securing our real estate loans decline and the demand for our commercial real estate loans could decrease. We generally have not experienced a downturn in credit performance by our commercial real estate loan customers, but in light of the uncertainty that exists in the economy and credit markets nationally, there can be no guarantee that we will not experience any deterioration in such performance. Government regulation can result in limitations on our operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to supervision and regulation by a number of governmental regulatory agencies. Regulations adopted by these agencies, which are generally intended to provide protection for depositors and customers rather than for the benefit of stockholders, govern a comprehensive range of matters relating to ownership and control of our shares, our acquisition of other companies and businesses, permissible activities for us to engage in, maintenance of adequate capital levels, and other aspects of our operations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effect of these changes on our business and profitability. Increased regulation could increase our cost of compliance and adversely affect profitability. We must effectively manage our credit risk. There are risks in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions. We attempt to minimize our credit risk through prudent loan application approval procedures, careful monitoring of the concentration of loans within specific industries and geographic location, and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review and audit departments as well as external auditors. However, we cannot assure such approval and monitoring procedures will eliminate these credit risks. Our allowance for loan losses must be managed to provide sufficient reserves to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. We established our allowance for loan losses and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb potential loan losses based on a continual analysis of our portfolio and market environment. The amount of loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions within our market, which may be beyond our control, and such losses may exceed current estimates. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot assure that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses. Loan losses in excess of our reserves may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Construction and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to more losses on these projects than on other loans. Construction, land acquisition, and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time. We have attempted to address these risks through our underwriting procedures, compliance with applicable regulations, and by limiting the amount of construction development lending. 10 Changes in interest rates could have an adverse affect on our income. Our earnings and profitability depend significantly on its net interest income. Net interest income represents the difference between interest income and fees earned on interest-earning assets and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. In the event that interest paid on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments, there may be a negative impact on our net interest income. Changes in interest rates could also adversely affect the income of certain components of our noninterest income. An increase in interest rates may also affect the customer’s ability to pay, which could in turn increase loan losses. In addition, higher interest rates could also increase our cost to borrow funds. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations in market interest rates which are affected by the economy. We rely heavily on information systems to service customers. An interruption in or breach in security of our information systems may result in a loss of customer business and reduced earnings. We utilize and rely heavily on communications and information systems in every aspect of our business. Any failure of these systems could result in disruptions in our customer service management, management information, deposit, loan, or other systems. While we have procedures in place to prevent or limit the effects of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, there can be no guarantee that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings. Most of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain management experienced in banking and financial services and familiar with the communities in our market areas. Our ability to retain executive officers, the current management teams, lending and retail banking officers, and administrative staff of our subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategy. It is also critical, as we grow, to be able to attract and retain qualified additional staff with the appropriate level of experience and knowledge about our market areas to implement our community-based operating strategy. The unexpected loss of services of any key personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Weather may adversely impact us. Downstate Illinois is a highly agricultural area and therefore the economy can be greatly affected by weather conditions. Favorable weather conditions increase the agriculture productivity and boost the economy while unfavorable weather conditions may decrease productivity adversely affecting the local economy. We conduct a significant portion of its business in downstate Illinois. As stated above, an adverse affect on the economy of downstate Illinois could negatively affect our profitability. The southwest coast of Florida is at risk of hurricanes each year which may cause damage to our assets. Hurricane damage could adversely affect our financial condition in a number of ways. Damage caused to a branch location could result in temporary closure and inconvenience to customers which could result in loss of customers and business. A hurricane could also affect the local economy and impact customers’ ability to meet loan repayment terms and adversely affect our financial condition. Hurricane damage could significantly reduce value of collateral pledged as security against loans made by us. Growth and its impact on our infrastructure. Our continued pace of growth may require it to raise additional capital in the future. We are required by federal and state regulations to maintain adequate levels of capital to support operations. As operations grow, the amount of capital required will increase. We may also be required to raise capital to support future acquisitions. Our ability to raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on our financial performance. If additional capital cannot be raised when needed, we could be subject to restricted growth which could negatively impact expansion through future acquisitions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 