Risk factors Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows andfinancial condition The rand is our principal operating currency. However, a large part of our group’s turnover is denominated in US dollars and some part in euro, derived either from exports from South Africa or from our manufacturingand distribution operations outside South Africa. Also, a significant part of our turnover is determined by the US dollar, as petroleum prices in general and the price of most petroleum and chemical products in South Africaare based on global commodity and benchmark prices which are quoted in US dollars. Hence, a large part of ourgroup turnover is denominated in US dollars or influenced by the underlying global commodity and benchmarkprices which are quoted in US dollars. Furthermore, a significant part of our capital expenditure is also US dollar-denominated, as it is directed to investments outside South Africa or constitutes equipment or plantimported into South Africa. In our South African operations the majority of our costs are rand based and in ourEuropean operations a large part of ou r costs are euro based. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange ratesbetween the rand and US dollar, the rand and the euro and the euro and the US dollar may have a material effecton our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. During the 2006 financial year the rand/US dollar exchange rate averaged R6.41 and fluctuated between R5.99 and R7.43. This compares to an average exchange rate of R6.21 during the 2005 financial year,fluctuating between R5.62 and R6.92. The rand exchange rate is impacted by various international and South 14 African economic and political factors and we are unable to forecast whether the relatively stable performanceof the rand in the 2005 and 2006 financial years will continue in the foreseeable future. Subsequent to 30 June2006 the rand has weakened significantly against the US dollar and euro. In addition, although the exchange rate of the rand is primarily market-determined, its value at any time may not be an accurate reflection of its underlying value, due to the potential effect of, among other factors,exchange controls. For more information regarding exchange controls in South Africa see “Item 10.D –Exchange controls”. We use derivative instruments to protect us against adverse movements in exchange rates on certain transactional risks in accordance with our group hedging policies see “Item 11 – Quantitative and qualitativedisclosures about market risk”. Fluctuations in refining margins and crude oil, natural gas and petroleum product prices may adverselyaffect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition Market prices for crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products may fluctuate as they are subject to local and international supply and demand fundamentals and factors over which we have no control. Worldwidesupply conditions and the price levels of crude oil may be significantly influenced by international cartels, whichcontrol the production of a significant proportion of the worldwide supply of crude oil, and by politicaldevelopments, especially in the Middle East. Other factors which may influence the aggregate demand andhence affect the markets and prices for petroleum products in regions which influence South African fuel pricesthrough the Basic Fuel Price (BFP) price formula (used for the calculation of the refinery gate price in SouthAfrica) and/or where we market these products, may include changes in economic conditions, the price andavailability of substitute fuels, changes in product inventory, product specifications and other factors. In recentyears, prices for petroleum products have fluct uated widely. For most of the 2006 financial year the crude oilprice fluctuated at levels above US$60 per barrel. See “Item 5 – Operating and financial review and prospects”. A substantial proportion of our turnover is derived from sales of petroleum and petrochemical products. Through our equity participation in the National Petroleum Refiners of South Africa (Pty) Limited (Natref)crude oil refinery, we are exposed to fluctuations in refinery margins resulting from differing fluctuations ininternational crude oil and petroleum product prices. We are also exposed to changes in absolute levels ofinternational petroleum product prices through our synthetic fuels and oil operations. Fluctuations ininternational crude oil prices affect our results mainly through their indirect effect on the BFP price formula, see“Item 4.B – Business overview – Sasol Synfuels” and “Sasol Oil”, as well as the impact on oil derivedfeedstock. Prices of petrochemical products and natural gas are also affected by fluctuation in crude oil prices.Fluctuations in the price of crude oil and petroleum products can have a material adverse effect on our business,operati ng results, cash flows and financial condition. We use derivative instruments to protect us against day-to-day US dollar oil price and rand to US dollar exchange rate fluctuations affecting the acquisition cost of our crude oil needs. During the course of the 2006financial year, we have again hedged a portion of our synthetic fuel production against falling oil prices inrespect of the 2007 financial year. See “Item 11 – Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk”.While the use of these instruments may provide some protection against short-term fluctuation in crude oilprices it does not protect us against longer term fluctuations in crude oil prices or differing trends between crudeoil and petroleum product prices. We are unable to accurately forecast fluctuations in refining margins and crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products prices. Fluctuations in any of these may have a material adverse effect on our business,operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 15 Cyclicality in petrochemical product prices may adversely affect our business, operating results, cashflows and financial condition The demand for chemicals and especially products such as solvents, alkylates, fertilizers and polymers is cyclical. Typically, higher demand during peaks in the industry business cycles leads producers to increase theirproduction capacity. Although peaks in the business cycle have been characterized by increased selling pricesand higher operating margins, in the past such peaks have led to overcapacity and supply exceeding demandgrowth. Low periods in the business cycle are then characterized by decreasing prices and excess capacity,which can depress operating margins and may result in operating losses. We believe that some areas within thechemicals industry currently show overcapacity with the possibility of further capacity additions in the next fewyears. We cannot assure you that future growth in demand will be sufficient to absorb current overcapacity orfuture capacity additions without downward pressure on prices of chemical products. Such pressure may have amaterial adverse effect on our business , operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We may not be able to exploit technological advances quickly and successfully Most of our operations, including the gasification of coal and the manufacture of synfuels and petrochemical products, are highly dependent on the development and use of advanced technologies. Thedevelopment, commercialization and integration of the appropriate advanced technologies can affect, amongother things, the competitiveness of our products, the continuity of our operations, our feedstock requirementsand the capacity and efficiency of our production. It is possible that new technologies or novel processes may emerge and that existing technologies may be further developed in the fields in which we operate. Unexpected rapid advances in employed technologies or thedevelopment of novel processes can affect our operations and product ranges in that it could render thetechnologies we utilize or the products we produce obsolete or less competitive in the future. Difficulties inaccessing new technologies may impede us from implementing them and competitive pressures may force us toimplement these new technologies at a substantial cost. Examples of new technologies which may in the futureaffect our business include the following: • The development and commercialization of non-hydrocarbon-dependent energy carrier technologies, including the further development of fuel cells or the large scale broadening of the application ofelectricity to drive motor vehicles. These may be disruptive to the use of hydrocarbon and refined crudeoil-derived fuels. • The development of improved fuels (and associated automotive technologies) from a crude oil base with equivalent properties to that of Fischer-Tropsch derived fuels, which may erode the competitiveadvantage of Fischer-Tropsch fuels. • The development by competitors of next generation catalysts in which catalyst performance is manipulated, resulting in highly selective and high purity chemical products, which may render the useof our mixed feed stream catalytic-based production processes uncompetitive. We cannot predict the effect of these or other technological changes or the development of novel processes on our business or on our ability to provide competitive products. Our ability to compete will depend on ourtimely and cost-effective implementation of new technological advances. It will also depend on our success incommercializing these advances in spite of competition we face by patents registered by our competitors. If weare unable to implement new technologies in a timely or cost-efficient manner, or penetrate new markets in atimely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could experience amaterial adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our GTL projects may not prove sufficiently viable or as profitable as planned We are currently developing GTL projects in Qatar and Nigeria. In addition we are considering opportunities for further GTL investments in other areas of the world. The development of these projects, either 16 solely or through our joint venture with Chevron Corporation (Chevron), is a capital-intensive process andrequires us to commit significant capital expenditure and devote considerable management resources in utilizingour existing experience and know-how, especially in connection with Fischer-Tropsch synthesis technologies.See “Item 4.B – Business overview – Sasol Synfuels International”. This process and its products may also giverise to patent risks in connection with the use of our GTL technology. See below, “Intellectual property risksmay adversely affect our products or processes and our competitive advantage”. We consider the development of our GTL projects a major part of our strategy for future growth and believe that GTL fuels will in time develop to become an efficient and widely used alternative and/orsupplement to conventional diesel fuel. In assessing the viability of our GTL projects, we make a number ofassumptions relating to specific variables, mainly including: • access to sufficient competitively priced gas reserves; • prices of crude oil, petroleum products and gas; • fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US dollar against the rand; • fluctuations in interest rates; • fiscal dispensation in the countries in which we invest; • capital cost of our facilities, including material, engineering and construction costs; • various operating costs; • technology and catalyst performance; • conditions in the countries in which we invest, including factors relating to political, social and economic conditions; • availability of skilled workers to construct and operate the plants; and • timely completion of projects. Significant variations in any one or more of the above factors which are beyond our control, or any other relevant factor, may adversely affect the profitability or even the viability of our GTL investments. Should wenot be successful in the implementation of our GTL projects, we may be required to write off significantamounts devoted to them and we may need to redirect our strategy for future growth. In view of the resourcesinvested in these projects and their importance to our growth strategy, problems we may experience as a result ofthese factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financialcondition and opportunities for future growth. There are risks relating to countries in which we operate that could adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition Several of our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates operate in countries and regions that are subject to significantly differing political, social, economic and market conditions. See “Item 18 – Financial statements –Note 3 – Segmental analysis” for a description of the extent of our operations in the main countries and regionsin which we operate. We are a South African domiciled company. The majority of our operations are located inSouth Africa and 81% of our turnover from continuing operations is generated from our South African facilities.Specific aspects of country risks that may have a material impact on our business, operating results, cash flowsand financial condition include: 17 (a) Political, social and economic issues We have invested or are in the process of investing in significant operations in African, Southeast Asian and Middle Eastern countries that have in the past to a greater or lesser extent experienced social, economic andpolitical uncertainty. More recently certain countries in which we operate have achieved greater social, politicaland economic stability. Since 1994 South Africa, in particular, has experienced significantly improved social,economic and political conditions. (b) The possible imposition of windfall taxes on our synthetic fuel operations A task team was appointed by the South African Minister of Finance during May 2006 to investigate possible reforms to the fiscal regime applicable to windfall profits in South Africa’s liquid fuel energy sector,with particular reference to the synthetic fuel industry. A discussion document for public comment was releasedin this regard. We have presented our submissions in writing to the task team and have made oral submissions atthe public hearings. We cannot predict whether this investigation will lead to amendments to the current fiscalregime, which we are presently subject to. (c) Fluctuations in inflation and interest rates Over recent years, the South African economy has had relatively low and stable levels of inflation and interest rates. Should increases in these rates occur, our costs could increase and our operating margins could beaffected. High interest rates could also adversely impact on our ability to ensure cost-effective debt financing inSouth Africa. (d) Transportation, water and electricity and other infrastructure The infrastructure in some countries in which we operate, such as rail infrastructure and electricity and water supply in South Africa, may need to be further upgraded and expanded and in certain instances possibly atour own cost. (e) Unionized Labor The majority of our employees worldwide belong to trade unions. These employees comprise mainly general workers, artisans and technical operators. Although we have had minor labor disruptions in South Africaduring 2006 we have not experienced significant labor disruptions in recent years. We have constructive relationswith our employees and their unions, but we cannot assure you that significant labor disruptions will not occurin the future. (f) Southern African regional issues There have been some instances of social, political, and economic instability in some of the countries in the Southern African region. Although we believe South Africa’s growing stature has increasingly separated it fromthe effects of regional issues, such political or economic instability in neighboring countries could negativelyaffect market conditions in South Africa. (g) Exchange control regulations South African law provides for exchange control regulations which restrict the export of capital from the Common Monetary Area, which includes South Africa, subject to South African Reserve Bank dispensation.These regulations apply to transactions involving South African residents, including both natural persons andlegal entities. These regulations also affect our ability to borrow funds from non-South African sources for use inSouth Africa or to repay these funds from South Africa and, in some cases, our ability to guarantee theobligations of our subsidiaries with regard to these funds. These restrictions have affected the manner in whichwe have financed our acquisitions outside South Africa and the geographic distribution of our debt. See “Item 10.D – Exchange controls” and “Item 5.B – Liquidity and capital resources”. 18 (h) HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa Based on the results of our voluntary counseling and testing program which had an 82% uptake amongst all levels of the organization, we estimate that 7% of our South African workforce may be currently infected, withthe highest concentration of infections in our mining operations. This is less than the 10% to 15% initiallyestimated during 2004. Based on an actuarial study, which excludes the positive impact of any prevention andmanagement intervention program, we estimate that, while the percentage of infected employees may not risesignificantly in the forthcoming years, there will be a significant increase in the number of AIDS-relatedfatalities. See “Item 6.D – Employees”. We incur costs relating to the medical treatment and loss of infected personnel, as well as the related loss of productivity. We also incur costs relating to the recruitment and training of new personnel. We are not in aposition to accurately quantify these costs. Based on our actuarial models, we estimate that the impact ofHIV/AIDS on our payroll expenses should be less than 1% of our current payroll for our South Africanemployees by the year 2007. This calculation is based on the estimated financial impact on production resultingfrom the projected prevalence of HIV/AIDS among our workforce, but does not take into account indirect costsof productivity losses. We are investing human and financial resources to establish and maintain programs toaddress the HIV/AIDS pandemic. In September 2002, we launched the Sasol HIV/AIDS Response Programme(SHARP), which is our initiative to respond to the HIV/AIDS pandemic, on which we have spent a total amountof approximately R22 million to June 2006. We are committed to t he on-going funding of SHARP. We cannot assure you that the costs we are currently incurring and will incur in the future in connection with the HIV/AIDS pandemic will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cashflows and financial condition. (i) Transformation issues In some countries our operations are required to comply with local procurement, employment equity, ownership and other regulations which are designed to address country specific social and economictransformation issues. As a leading and patriotic South Africa-based company, we embrace and will engender or participate in initiatives to bring about meaningful transformation to assist in correcting the imbalances and injustices of theapartheid era. We consider these initiatives to be a strategic imperative and we acknowledge the risk of notvigorously pursuing them or of them not succeeding and adversely impacting on the long-term sustainableperformance and reputation of our company. It is not currently known what additional costs or implications willarise for us to comply with these transformation initiatives. As part of an initiative of the government of South Africa to advance the participation of historically disadvantaged South Africans in the country’s economy, in November 2000, we became party to an agreementwith the government and the liquid fuels industry, the Charter for the South African Petroleum and Liquid FuelsIndustry on Empowering Historically Disadvantaged South Africans in the Petroleum and Liquid Fuels Industry(the Liquid Fuels Charter). The Charter deals with the following key matters: • participation in ownership and control in all facets of the industry by historically disadvantaged South Africans; • addressing the skills gap in the industry; • employment equity; and • procurement from historically disadvantaged South Africans. See “Item 4.B – Business overview – Sasol Oil” and “- Empowerment of historically disadvantaged South Africans”. 19 The Liquid Fuels Charter requires us, amongst other things, to ensure that historically disadvantaged South Africans hold at least 25% equity ownership of our liquid fuels business by the year 2010. We entered into a25% equity transaction with Tshwarisano LFB Investment (Pty) Limited (Tshwarisano), on 1 July 2006 and weare now compliant with the equity ownership targets of the Liquid Fuels Charter. See “Item 8.B – Significantchanges”. The financing arrangements for the Tshwarisano transaction are set out in “Item 5.A – Operating results – Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations in the countires in which we operate” and “Item 8.B –Significant changes”. In October 2002, the government and representatives of South African mining companies and mineworkers’ unions reached broad agreement on a charter (the Mining Charter), designed to facilitate the participation ofhistorically disadvantaged South Africans in the country’s mining industry. The Charter’s stated objectivesinclude the: • expansion of opportunities for persons disadvantaged by unfair discrimination under the previous political dispensation; • expansion of the skills base of such persons; • promotion of employment and advancement of the social and economic welfare of mining communities; and • promotion of beneficiation of ore into higher value substances. The Mining Charter, together with the scorecard to facilitate the interpretation of and compliance with the Mining Charter, requires mining companies to ensure that historically disadvantaged South Africans hold at least15% ownership of mining assets or equity in South Africa within 5 calendar years (i.e. by 2009) and 26%ownership within 10 calendar years (i.e. by 2014) from the effective date of the Mineral and PetroleumResources Development Act which was on 1 May 2004. The Charter further specifies that the mining industry isrequired to assist historically disadvantaged South Africans in securing finance to fund their equity participationup to an amount of R100 billion within the first 5 calendar years after the implementation of the aforementionedAct. Beyond this R100 billion commitment, the Mining Charter requires that participation of historicallydisadvantaged South Africans should be increased towards the 26% target on a willing buyer-willing seller basis.See “Item 4.B – Business overvi ew – Sasol Mining” and “Empowerment of historically disadvantaged SouthAfricans”. Various principles of the Mining Charter have been incorporated in regulations promulgated by the Minister of Minerals and Energy under the new Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act with respectto the South African mining industry. We have commenced a process to apply for the conversion of our existingmining licenses under the new Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act. See below “New mininglegislation may have an adverse effect on our mineral rights”. When considering applications for the conversionof existing mining licenses under the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act, the Minister ofMinerals and Energy must take into account, among other factors, the applicant company’s compliance with theMining Charter. We have entered into a transaction with Eyesizwe Coal (Pty) Limited (Eyesizwe) for our miningexport activities which is expected to be effective in 2007. This venture will result in approximately an 8%indirect black economic empowerment (BEE ) equity ownership in Sasol Mining and together with other BEEtransactions under consideration by Sasol Mining would result in 15% BEE equity ownership by 2009 and 26%by 2014. In December 2004 the Minister of Trade and Industry issued certain draft Codes of Good Practice for Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment for public comment pursuant to the Broad-based Black EconomicEmpowerment Act of 2003. These codes are intended to provide businesses with guidance on implementing therequirements of the Act. These Codes have been published for comments and we have commented on the Codesand await publication in the South African Government Gazette. 20 It is not currently known what additional costs or implications will arise for us to comply with the said Act and other requirements of both the Liquid Fuels and Mining Charters or the Codes of Good Practice for Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment and we cannot assure you that these costs or implications will not have amaterial adverse effect on our shareholders or business operating results, cash flows and financial condition. (j) Engineering and construction contract costs The increase worldwide in the sanctioning of large engineering and construction contracts has resulted in a shortage of engineering and construction resources and strains in these industries. These have impacted on someof our projects and have affected construction timing schedules and costs. Whilst higher international crude oilprices may boost post-commissioning income streams and compensate for construction delays and higher capitalcosts, these strains in the engineering and construction industries are nevertheless a cause for concern and mayimpact on our project plans and growth ambitions. (k) Other specific country risks that are applicable to countries in which we operate and which may have a material impact on our business include: • external acts of warfare and civil clashes; • government interventions, including protectionism and subsidies; • regulatory, taxation and legal structure changes; • the control of oil and gas field developments and transportation infrastructure; • failure to receive new permits and consents; • cancellation of contractual rights; • expropriation of assets; • lack of capacity to deal with emergency response situations; and • the introduction of selective environmental and carbon taxes. Some of the countries where we have already made, or other countries where we may consider making, investments are in various stages of developing institutions and legal and regulatory systems that arecharacteristic of parliamentary democracies. However, institutions in these countries may not yet be as firmlyestablished as they are in parliamentary democracies in South Africa, the United States and some Europeancountries. Some of these countries are also transitioning to a market economy and, as a result, experiencechanges in their economies and their government policies that could affect our investments in these countries.Moreover, the procedural safeguards of the new legal and regulatory regimes in these countries are still beingdeveloped and, therefore, existing laws and regulations may be applied inconsistently. In some circumstances, itmay not be possible to obtain the legal remedies provided under those laws and regulations in a timely manner. As the political, economic and legal environments remain subject to continuous development, investors in these countries face uncertainty as to the security of their investments. Any unexpected changes in the politicalor economic conditions in the countries in which we operate (including neighboring countries) may have amaterial adverse effect on the investments that we have made or may make in the future, which may in turn havea material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. New mining legislation may have an adverse effect on our mineral rights The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act came into effect on 1 May 2004. The fundamental principle of the Act is that mineral resources are the common heritage of all South Africans and collectivelybelong to all the people of South Africa. The Act provides that the right to prospect and mine, including the rightto grant prospecting and mining rights on behalf of the nation, be administered by the government of SouthAfrica which will have the right to exercise full and permanent custodianship over mineral resources. 21 The Act requires mining companies, including our company, to apply for conversion of their existing prospecting and mining permits. A wide range of factors and principles must be taken into account by theMinister of Minerals and Energy when considering these applications. These factors include the applicant’saccess to financial resources and appropriate technical ability to conduct the proposed prospecting or miningoperation, the environmental impact of the operation and, in the case of prospecting rights, considerationsrelating to fair competition. Other factors include considerations relevant to promoting employment and thesocial and economic welfare of all South Africans and showing compliance with the provisions of the MiningCharter for the empowerment of historically disadvantaged South Africans in the mining industry. See “Item 4.B– Business overview – Regulation of mining activities in South Africa” and “– Empowerment of historicallydisadvantaged S outh Africans”. The Act also provides that a mining right granted under the Act may be cancelled if the mineral to which such mining right relates is not mined at an optimal rate. Furthermore, royalties from mining activities willbecome payable to the state under provisions contained in the “Mineral and Petroleum Resources Royalty Bill”.This Bill was first published in March 2003 and has since been revised, with the final Bill was published on 11 October 2006. The Bill provides for a royalty rate of 1% on coal with an ash content of higher than 15% forSouth African energy consumption and 3% on coal with an ash content lower than 15%. The royalty is revenuebased, payable bi-annually in arrears, and will take effect from 1 May 2009. The royalty will be deductible fornormal income tax purposes. It is the declared intent of the South African government not to disrupt operationsas a result of the introduction of the new legislation and we intend to undertake the appropriate actions in orderto ensure conversion of our existing prospecting and mining rights. However, we cannot assure you that we willbe successful in all our applications for conversion and that our rights on existing coal mine reserves will not beaffected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financialcondition. New legislation on petroleum and energy activities may have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition The Petroleum Products Amendment Act became effective on 17 March 2006. This Act amends the existing Petroleum Products Act, enacting provisions regulating a range of matters including the licensing of personsinvolved in the manufacturing, wholesale and retail sale of petroleum products. As the Act and regulations to bepromulgated there under regulate matters pertaining to wholesale and retail sales of petroleum products, SasolOil, Natref and Sasol Synfuels are currently in the process of applying for licenses for manufacturing andwholesale and site licenses for our plants, wholesale activities and retail sites as required by the Act andregulations. We cannot assure you that these licenses will be granted and if they are granted that the conditionsof the licenses will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, cash flows andfinancial condition. New retail site development could be delayed given the requirements under the newregulations. See “Item 4.B – Busin ess overview – Sasol Oil” and “- Regulation of petroleum-related activities inSouth Africa”. The Petroleum Pipelines Act became effective on 1 November 2005. The Act regulates petroleum pipelines and storage and loading facility activities, including the construction and operation of petroleum pipelines andthe delivery of certain commercial services in connection with these pipelines and facilities. The PetroleumPipelines Act grants broad discretion to the Minister of Minerals and Energy to adopt different pricingmethodologies in connection with the setting of tariffs, which may prove advantageous for some competitors,because of different market and geographic positions. The regulations pertaining to pricing methodologies havenot been issued yet, but the regulations that may be promulgated under the Act may affect our advantage due tothe location in the economic heartland of the country of our Natref refinery and our synfuels facilities atSecunda. See “Item 4.B – Business overview – Sasol Oil” and “- Regulation of petroleum-related activities inSouth AfricaR 21;. We have applied for licenses under the Petroleum Pipelines Act and the rules issued by theNational Energy Regulator of South Africa (NERSA) for our depots and related infrastructure and await theissue of licenses. Notwithstanding continuous interaction and comments submitted in respect of regulations to beissued under these statutes, we cannot assure you that the enactment of new legislation or the amendment of 22 existing laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cashflows and financial condition. Among the matters governed by the Petroleum Pipelines Act, of particularsignificance to our business are issues relating to the discretion granted to the South African Minister ofMinerals and Energy with respect to the exercise of executive powers, the determination or approval of tariffsand the issue of open access to pipelines and depots. The Gas Act came into effect on 1 November 2005. The Act regulates matters relating to gas transmission, storage, distribution, liquefaction and re-gasification activities. Although we negotiated a ten year regulatorydispensation (8 years remaining until 2014) with the South African government covering the supply ofMozambican natural gas to the South African market, we cannot assure you that the enactment of the Gas Actand the appointment of the NERSA (appointed pursuant to the National Energy Regulator Act which becameeffective on 1 November 2005) will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, cashflows and financial condition. See “Item 4.B – Business overview – Sasol Gas” and “- Regulation of gas relatedactivities in South Africa”. The South African government issued guidelines relating to new fuel specifications, portions of which came into effect in January 2006 and resulted in regulations being issued on 23 June 2006. These specificationsrelate to the phasing out of lead from the petroleum products we manufacture, a reduction in the sulfur contentin certain of these products and a new national octane structure. The clean fuels introduction plans have beensuccessfully completed and in order to meet these new specifications we have made significant capitalinvestments at our manufacturing sites to modify our current petroleum production processes. It is as yetuncertain what the final market demand will be for the various new products. Should the demand for particularproducts outstrip our ability to manufacture them as a result of a delay in completing modifications to our plantsand/or anticipated demand projections being exceeded this could have a material adverse effect on our business,operating results, cash flows and finan cial condition. The guidelines regarding the importation and exportation of petroleum products were issued for public comment on 23 June 2006. From the guidelines it can be concluded that there may be more flexibility affordedto oil companies and wholesalers, including airline companies, to directly import petroleum products. Noprotection will be granted to local and domestic manufacturers to satisfy their needs from local productionbefore imports are undertaken. The Consumer Protection Bill was issued for public comment on 23 June 2006 and intends to establish national norms and standards relating to consumer protection and prohibits certain unfair marketing and businesspractices and to promote responsible consumer behavior. It remains uncertain what the impact on our business will be when the guidelines and the Consumer Protection legislation are passed. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results,cash flows and financial condition. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient skilled employees We are highly dependent on the continuous development and successful application of new technologies. In order to achieve this, we need to maintain a focus on recruiting and retaining qualified scientists and engineers.In the past, we have been successful in recruiting and retaining such personnel. We have also established certainresearch and development facilities overseas. However, demand for personnel with the range of capabilities andexperience required in our industry is high globally and success in attracting and retaining such employees is notguaranteed. The risk exists that our scientific, engineering and project execution skills base may be depleted overtime because of, for example, natural attrition and a shortage of people being available in these disciplines.Failure to attract and retain people with the right capabilities and experience could negatively affect our ability tointroduce and maintain the appropriate technological improvements to our business and our ability tosuccessfully cons truct and commission new plants. This may have a material adverse effect on our business,operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 23 Intellectual property risks may adversely affect our products or processes and our competitive advantage Our various products and processes, including most notably, our chemical, CTL and GTL products and processes have unique characteristics and structures and, as a result, are subject to patent protection, the extentof which varies from country to country. The expiry of a patent results in increased competition in the market forthe previously patented products and processes. In addition, aggressive patenting by our competitors may resultin an increased patent infringement risk. A high percentage of our products can be regarded as commodity chemicals, some of which have unique characteristics and structure. These products are normally utilized by our clients as feedstock to manufacturespecialty chemicals or application-type products. We have noticed a worldwide trend of increased filing ofpatents relating to the composition of application-type products. These patents may create pressure on our clientswho market these application-type products which may adversely affect our sales to these clients. Patent-relatedpressures may adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We believe that our proprietary technology, know-how and trade secrets, especially in the Fischer-Tropsch area, provide us with a competitive advantage. A possible loss of experienced personnel to competitors, and apossible transfer of know-how and trade secrets associated therewith, may negatively impact this advantage.Similarly, operating and licensing technology in countries in which intellectual property laws are not wellestablished and enforced may result in some transfer of our know-how and trade secrets to our competitors. Thismay adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Increasing competition from products originating from countries with low production costs may adverselyaffect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition Certain of our chemical production facilities are located in developed countries, including the United States and Europe. Economic and political conditions in these countries result in relatively high labor costs and, insome regions, inflexible labor markets, compared to others. Increasing competition from regions with lowerproduction costs, for example the Middle East and China, exercises pressure on the competitiveness of ourchemical products and, therefore, on our profit margins and may result in withdrawal of particular products orclosure of facilities. We cannot assure you that increasing competition by products originating from countrieswith low production costs will not result in withdrawal of our products or closure of our facilities, which mayhave a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Changes in consumer and safety, health and environmental regulations and legislation and public opinionmay adversely affect our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition Our products are required to comply with legislation relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety of employees, the public and/or the end consumer, as well as customer needs. As these regulationsmay grow stricter, we may be required in some cases to incur additional expenditure in providing additional testdata in order to register our products or to adjust the manufacturing processes for certain of our products,including liquid fuels and chemicals, or even withdraw some of them, in order to be in a position to comply withmarket needs or more stringent regulatory requirements. For example, compliance with the registration,evaluation and authorization of chemicals (REACH) procedure proposed by the European Commission (EC)may have significant cost implications as we may be required, among other things, to provide risk assessmentsand apply for registration of our products. Similarly, public opinion is growing more sensitive to consumerhealth and safety and environmental protection matter s, and, as a result, markets may apply pressure on usconcerning certain of our products. Should we be required to comply with REACH requirements we may incursignificant additional costs. We may be required to withdraw from the market certain products which weconsider uneconomical given these additional costs of compliance or otherwise due to public opinionconsiderations. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flowsand financial condition. 24 Our exploration, mining and production operations are required to conform to legislation relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety of the workforce and/or neighboring communities. As theseregulations may grow stricter, we may be required in some cases to incur additional expenditure in order toprovide additional protection or to adjust specifications or manufacturing processes or transport and distributionarrangements for certain of our operations or products. Should we make changes or incur such costs this mayhave a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Morespecifically: • the National Environmental Management: Air Quality Act, in terms of which the Vaal Triangle area (in which our Sasolburg operations are located) has been declared a Priority Area for purposes ofimplementation of an emission reduction and management plan by the South African Department ofEnvironmental Affairs and Tourism. The Department is also in the process of setting ambient air qualityand emission standards, which will form the basis for a review of atmospheric emission licenses for ouroperations in Sasolburg and Secunda. More stringent air quality standards may have significant costimplications for us; and • the nature of some of our processes, like the gasification of coal to produce synthetic fuels and petrochemicals, result in relatively high emission of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas. Although certaincountries in which we operate are exempt from greenhouse gas reduction targets set in terms of theKyoto Protocol, it is uncertain how any future developments in carbon dioxide restrictions will affect ourgroup. We may face potential costs in connection with industry-related accidents or deliberate acts of terrorcausing property damage, personal injuries or environmental contamination We operate coal mines, explore for and produce oil and gas and operate a number of plants and facilities for the storage, processing and transportation of oil, chemicals and gas related raw materials, products andwastes. These facilities and their respective operations are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to,fire, explosion, leaks, ruptures, discharges of toxic hazardous substances, soil and water contamination, floodingand land subsidence, among others. As a result, we are subject to the risk of experiencing, and have in the pastexperienced, industry-related incidents. The terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September 2001 and subsequent attacks in various parts of the world demonstrated the increased risk posed by the threat of terrorism. Our facilities, located mainly inSouth Africa, the United States and various European countries, as well as in various African countries, theMiddle East and Southeast Asia, are subject to the risk of experiencing deliberate acts of terror. Industry-related accidents and acts of terror may result in damages to our facilities and may require shutdown of the affected facilities, thereby disrupting production and increasing production costs. Furthermore,acts of terror, accidents or our historical operations may cause, or may have caused, environmentalcontamination, personal injuries, health impairment or fatalities and may result in exposure to extensiveenvironmental remediation costs, civil litigation, the imposition of fines and penalties and the need to obtaincostly pollution control technology. We obtain insurance cover over our assets and against business interruption. We also obtain insurance to limit certain of our exposures. In some cases we also have indemnity agreements with the previous owners ofacquired businesses which limit certain of our exposures to environmental contamination. As a result of theterrorist attacks on 11 September 2001 and more recently hurricanes Katrina and Rita, our insurance costs anddeductibles (retained risk) have increased significantly. We are implementing a number of programs, includingon-the job safety training, in order to increase safety, and we closely monitor our safety, health andenvironmental procedures. However, there can be no assurance that accidents or acts of terror will not occur inthe future, that insurance will adequately cover the entire scope or extent of our losses or that we may not befound directly liable in connection with claims arising from these events. In general, we cannot assure you that costs incurred as a result of the above or related factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 25 Failure to comply with safety, health and environmental and other laws may adversely affect our marketposition and our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition We are subject to a wide range of general and industry-specific environmental, health and safety and other legislation in jurisdictions in which we operate. Environmental requirements govern, among other things, landuse, air emissions, use of water, wastewater discharge, waste management and site remediation. Theseregulations often require us to obtain and operate in compliance with the conditions of permits, licenses andauthorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. Compliance with these laws, regulations, permits,licenses and authorizations is a significant factor in our business, and we incur, and expect to continue to incur,significant capital and operating expenditures in order to continue to comply, in all material respects, withapplicable laws, regulations, permits and authorizations. Failure to comply with applicable safety, health and environmental laws, regulations or permit requirements may result in fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining orcurtailing operations or requiring corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or otherremedial actions, any of which could entail significant expenditures. We are also continuing to take remedial actions at a number of sites due to soil and groundwater contamination. The process of investigation and remediation can be lengthy and is subject to the uncertainties ofsite specific factors, changing legal requirements, developing technologies, the allocation of liability amongmultiple parties and the discretion of regulators. Accordingly, we cannot estimate with certainty the actualamount and timing of costs associated with site remediation. In order to comply with these safety, health and environmental licenses, laws and regulations we may have to incur costs which we could finance from our available cash flows or from alternative sources of financing. Wemay be required to provide for financial security for environmental rehabilitation in the form of a trust fund,guarantee, deposit or any other method as may be required by the regulations (not yet promulgated) under thePetroleum Products Act in respect of the rehabilitation of environmental impacts. However, this is not requiredin terms of the Petroleum Products Amendment Act and the regulations if a license applicant at the time of thecommencement of the Petroleum Products Amendment Act, held or was in the process of developing a site,manufactured or wholesaled or retailed petroleum products. No assurance can be given that changes in safety,health and environmental laws and regulations or their application or the discovery of previously unknowncontamination or other liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cashflows and financial condition. Whilst it is our policy that asbestos-containing materials will be phased out on a risk-based order of priority, there are currently certain asbestos-containing materials at our facilities. In addition, our manufacturingprocesses may utilize and result in the emission of substances with potential carcinogenic properties. We alsomanufacture products which may contain carcinogenic components. Although we implement occupational healthand safety, product stewardship and other measures to eliminate or mitigate potential risks we cannot assure youthat no liabilities may arise as a result of the use or exposure to these materials. In addition to undertaking internal investigations we are also subject to review from time to time by government authorities on our compliance with, inter alia, tax, customs and excise duty, anti-trust laws andregulations impacting our operations. Our product pricing structures are also reviewed from time to time byregulatory authorities. Whilst it is our policy to conduct our operations in accordance with applicable laws andregulations and we have established control systems to monitor such compliance, no assurance can be given thatthese control systems will not fail or that some of our product pricing structures will not change in the future.Failure to interpret correctly and comply with such laws and regulations and/or changes to our product pricingand cost structures may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, cash flows andfinancial condition. 26 Our coal, crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates may be materially different from reserves that wemay actually recover Our reported coal reserves are estimated quantities based on applicable reporting regulations that under present and anticipated conditions have the potential to be economically mined and processed. Our proveddeveloped and undeveloped crude oil and natural gas reserves are estimates based on applicable reportingregulations. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and in projectingpotential future rates of coal, oil and natural gas production, including many factors beyond our control. Inaddition, reserve/reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground deposits of reserves thatcannot be measured in an exact manner and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality ofavailable data and engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of different engineers mayvary and results of our mining/drilling and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revisionof estimates. Reserve estimates may require revision based on actual production experience and other factors. Inaddition, several factors including the market price of coal, oil and natural gas, reduced recovery rates orincreased production costs due to inflation or other factors may render certain of our estimated proved andprobable coal reserves and proved developed and undeveloped oil and natural gas reserves uneconomical toexploit and may ultimately result in a restatement of reserves. This may have a material adverse effect on ourbusiness, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. See “Item 4.D – Property, plants and equipment”. There is a possible risk that sanctions may be imposed by the US government as a result of our Iranrelated activities There are possible risks posed by the potential imposition of US economic sanctions in connection with activities we are undertaking in the polymers field and considering in respect of a GTL opportunity (with respectto which no investment decision has yet been made) in Iran. For a description of our activities in Iran see “Item 4.B – Business overview – Sasol Polymers” and “Sasol Synfuels International”. The risks relate to twosanctions programs administered by the US government that we have considered: the Iranian TransactionsRegulations (ITR) administered by the US Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) andthe Iran and Libya Sanctions Act (ILSA) administered by the US Department of State. The ITR prohibit or restrict most transactions between US persons and Iran. The ITR, administered by OFAC, do not apply directly to either Sasol or the group entities involved in activities in Iran, because none ofthem would be considered a US person under these regulations. Nonetheless, because the group is amultinational enterprise, we are aware that the ITR may apply to certain entities associated with the group,including US employees, investors and certain subsidiaries. We are taking measures to ensure that US employees, investors and certain subsidiaries of the group to which the ITR applies will not violate the ITR as a result of their respective affiliations with the group. Forinstance, to that end, we are taking measures to: • ensure that no US persons are involved in our Iranian activities, either as directors and officers, or in other positions, including engineering, financial, administrative and legal; • ensure that funds dedicated to projects in Iran will be kept segregated from general group funds; • ensure that no funds of US investors will be utilized in the projects by using separate bank accounts for any funds directed to, or to be received from, these projects and monitoring the flow of funds to andfrom these projects; and • separate the results of these businesses into separate legal entities. By undertaking these steps, we believe that any risks posed by the ITR to US persons and entities affiliated with the group will be mitigated. Nevertheless, we cannot predict OFAC’s enforcement policy in this regard andit is possible that OFAC may take a different view of the measures described above. In such event, US personsor affiliates associated with the group may be subject to a range of civil and criminal penalties. 27 ILSA was adopted by the US government with the objective of denying Iran and Libya the ability to support acts of international terrorism and fund the development or acquisition of weapons of mass destruction.ILSA is now only applicable to Iran following the removal of sanctions imposed against Libya. ILSA grants thePresident of the United States discretion in imposing sanctions on companies found to be in violation of itsprovisions involving investment in the petroleum industry in Iran. Should the US government determine thatsome or all of our activities in Iran are investments in the petroleum industry, as statutorily defined by ILSA, thePresident of the United States may in his discretion impose, among other sanctions, restrictions on our ability toobtain credit from US financial institutions, restrictions on our ability to procure goods, services and technologyfrom the United States or restrictions on our ability to make sales into the United States. We cannot predict future interpretations of ILSA or the implementation policy of the US government with respect to ILSA. Although we believe that our polymers project is not in the petroleum industry and we wereonly involved in a feasibility study in connection with other activities in Iran, we cannot assure you that ouractivities in Iran would not be considered investments as statutorily defined by ILSA or that the imposition ofsanctions on the company or other entities of the group would not have a material adverse impact on ourbusiness, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The exercise of voting rights by holders of American Depositary Receipts is limited in some circumstances Holders of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) may exercise voting rights with respect to the ordinary shares underlying their American Depositary Shares (ADSs) only in accordance with the provisions of ourdeposit agreement (Deposit Agreement) with The Bank of New York, as the depositary (Depositary). Forexample, ADR holders will not receive notice of a meeting directly from us. Rather, we will provide notice of ashareholders meeting to The Bank of New York in accordance with the Deposit Agreement. The Bank of NewYork has undertaken in turn, as soon as practicable after receipt of our notice, to mail to holders of ADRs votingmaterials. These voting materials include information on the matters to be voted on contained in our notice ofthe shareholders meeting and a statement that the holders of ADRs on a specified date will be entitled, subject toany applicable provision of the laws of South Africa and our Articles of Association, to instruct The Bank ofNew York as to the exercise of the voting rights , pertaining to the shares underlying their respective ADSs on aspecified date. In addition, holders of our ADRs will be required to instruct The Bank of New York how toexercise these voting rights. Upon the written instruction of an ADR holder, The Bank of New York will endeavor, in so far as practicable, to vote or cause to be voted the shares underlying the ADSs in accordance with the instructionsreceived. If instructions from an ADR holder are not received by The Bank of New York by the date specified inthe voting materials, The Bank of New York will not request a proxy on behalf of such holder. The Bank of NewYork will not vote or attempt to exercise the right to vote other than in accordance with the instructions receivedfrom ADR holders. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that youcan instruct The Bank of New York to vote the shares underlying your ADSs. In addition, The Bank of New Yorkand its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying outvoting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be norecourse if your voting rights ar e not exercised as you directed. Sales of a large amount of Sasol’s ordinary shares and ADSs could adversely affect the prevailing marketprice of the securities Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major markets. The ability of a holder to sell a substantial number of Sasol’s ordinary shares on the JSE ina timely manner, especially in a large block trade, may be restricted by this limited liquidity. Sales of ordinaryshares or ADSs, if substantial, or the perception that these sales may occur and be substantial, could exertdownward pressure on the prevailing market prices for the Sasol ordinary shares or ADSs, causing their marketprices to decline. 28 