Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are important factors which could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 1 of this Form 10-K. We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements including those made in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public. Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no duty to update our Forward-Looking Statements. We may be unable to integrate Nalco successfully and realize the anticipated benefits of the merger: On December 1, 2011, we completed the Nalco merger. The merger involves the combination of two companies that historically operated as independent public companies. We will need to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business and operations of Nalco. Potential difficulties that we may encounter as part of the integration process, which may preclude us from realizing the anticipated benefits of the merger, including expected synergies, include the following: · complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including the challenge of integrating complex information technology systems, communications systems, financial reporting systems, supply chain and procurement arrangements and other assets of Nalco in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; 17 Table of Contents · the possibility that our businesses may suffer as a result of uncertainty surrounding the impact of the integration on employees and customers; · potential unknown liabilities in the legacy Nalco business or arising out of the integration; · unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the integration; · the inability to successfully combine the businesses of Ecolab and Nalco in a manner that permits us to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies anticipated to result from the merger; · problems that may arise in integrating the workforces of the two companies, including the possible loss of key employees; · potential problems in maintaining and integrating effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting for the combined company; · the lack of depth of personnel or other resources to pursue other potential business opportunities, such as possible acquisition opportunities; and · the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger or could reduce the combined company’s earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. In addition, with approximately $4.7 billion in sales in 2011 and approximately 13,700 employees, the merger of Nalco’s business with Ecolab has increased the size of our business significantly. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business. There can be no assurances that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits anticipated from the merger. We depend on key personnel to lead our business: Our continued success will largely depend on our ability to attract and retain a high caliber of talent and on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. This is even more crucial following the Nalco merger as important resources are shifted to planning and executing key integration initiatives as well as cost and growth synergies. During this stage in the integration, experienced business and financial leaders and experts are critical to the success of the merger. Our operations could be adversely affected if for any reason such officers or key employees did not remain with us. Our results can be adversely affected by difficulties in securing the supply of certain raw materials or by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials: The prices of raw materials used in our business can fluctuate from time to time, and in recent years we have experienced periods of increased raw material costs. Changes in raw material prices, unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes for those raw materials, or the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, volatility and disruption in economic activity and conditions could disrupt or delay the performance of our suppliers and thus impact our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our business. If we are unsuccessful in executing on key business initiatives, our business could be adversely affected: In addition to the Nalco merger, we continue to make investments and execute business initiatives to develop business systems and optimize our business structure as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our efficiency and returns. In particular, in February 2011 we announced various initiatives to capture financial and operational benefits in our European business, in part, by leveraging our new ERP system, and 18 Table of Contents to improve our competitiveness in the region. Those initiatives remain in progress, and the Nalco integration activities could impact our ability to timely execute these initiatives. If the projects in which we are investing or the initiatives which we are pursuing are not successfully executed, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our results depend upon the continued vitality of the markets we serve: Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care, food processing, pulp and paper and energy industries, can adversely impact our end-users. In recent years, the weak global economic environment, particularly in the United States and Europe, have negatively impacted many of our end-markets. Further decline in economic activity may continue to adversely affect these markets. During such downturns, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products and water treatment and process chemicals, which has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business. Our results are impacted by general worldwide economic factors: Economic factors such as the worldwide economy, capital flows, interest rates and currency movements including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk have affected our business in the past and may have a material adverse impact on our business in the future. In 2008 and 2009, the global economy experienced considerable disruption and volatility, and the disruption was particularly acute in the global credit markets. In 2011, the European Union’s sovereign debt crisis negatively impacted economic activity in that region as well as the strength of the euro versus the U.S. dollar. Further turmoil in the European Union’s sovereign debt market, or a similar financial crisis, could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows by negatively impacting economic activity, including in our key end-markets, and by further weakening the euro versus the U.S. dollar, resulting in reduced sales and earnings from our European operations, which are generated in euros and other European currencies, and then translated to U.S. dollars. Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global economic, political and legal risks that could impact our profitability: We have significant operations outside the United States, including joint ventures and other alliances. We conduct business in approximately 160 countries and, in 2011, approximately 49% of our net sales originated outside the United States. Some of our business is conducted in politically unstable countries. There are inherent risks in our international operations, including: · exchange controls and currency restrictions; · currency fluctuations and devaluations; · tariffs and trade barriers; · export duties and quotas; · changes in local economic conditions; · changes in laws and regulations; · difficulties in managing international operations and the burden of complying with foreign laws; · exposure to possible expropriation, nationalization or other government actions; · restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries; · unsettled political conditions, military action, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, force majeure, war or other armed conflict; and · countries whose governments have been hostile to U.S.-based businesses. Our international operations also expose us to different local political and business risks and challenges. For example, in certain countries we are faced with periodic political issues that could result in difficulties in collecting receivables or realizing other assets, currency risks or the risk that we are required to include local 19 Table of Contents ownership or management in our businesses. Also, because of uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights, we face risks in some countries that our intellectual property rights and contract rights would not be enforced by local governments. We are also periodically faced with the risk of economic uncertainty, which has impacted our business in some countries. Other risks in international business also include difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, including our obligations to design local solutions to manage credit risk to local customers and distributors. Further, our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations, including anti-corruption laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act. We have internal policies relating to such regulations; however, there is risk that such policies and procedures will not always protect us from the reckless acts of employees or representatives, and violations of such laws could result in investigations of the Company and sanctions. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, upon our ability to succeed in differing economic, social, legal and political conditions. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our business depends on our ability to comply with laws and governmental regulations, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations: Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the environment, including evolving climate change standards, and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products as well as to the conduct of our business generally, including employment and labor laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations exposes us to potential financial liability and increases our operating costs. Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The potential cost to us relating to environmental and product registration laws and regulations is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws (including tax laws), regulations and policies could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Our subsidiaries are defendants in pending lawsuits alleging negligence and injury resulting from the use of our COREXIT dispersant in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, which could expose us to monetary damages or settlement costs: Our subsidiaries are defendants in pending lawsuits alleging negligence and injury resulting from the use of our COREXIT dispersant in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, which could expose us to monetary damages or settlement costs. On April 22, 2010, the deepwater drilling platform, the Deepwater Horizon, operated by a subsidiary of BP plc, sank in the Gulf of Mexico after a catastrophic explosion and fire that began on April 20, 2010. A massive oil spill resulted. Approximately one week following the incident, subsidiaries of BP plc, under the authorization of the responding federal agencies, formally requested our indirect subsidiary, Nalco Company, to supply large quantities of COREXIT 9500, a Nalco oil dispersant product listed on the U.S. EPA National Contingency Plan Product Schedule. Nalco Company responded immediately by providing available COREXIT and increasing production to supply the product to BP’s subsidiaries for use, as authorized and directed by agencies of the federal government. Prior to the incident, Nalco and its subsidiaries had not provided products or services or otherwise had any involvement with the Deepwater Horizon platform. On July 15, 2010, BP announced that it had capped the leaking well, and the application of dispersants by the responding parties ceased shortly thereafter. Nalco Company is a defendant in five putative class action lawsuits relating to the use of our COREXIT dispersant in the Gulf of Mexico in response to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. The actions, as currently pleaded, allege several causes of action, including negligence and gross negligence. The plaintiffs in these actions seek, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages, medical monitoring and attorneys’ fees and costs. In addition, Nalco Company is a defendant in fifteen civil actions brought by individual 20 Table of Contents plaintiffs that contains factual allegations substantially similar to the putative class action lawsuits against Nalco Company, with the addition of claims of nuisance, trespass, battery, and strict liability for the physical injuries and property damage allegedly sustained by the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs in those actions seek, among other things, compensatory and punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees and costs. All but two of these cases have been administratively transferred for pre-trial purposes to a judge in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana with other related cases under In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater Horizon” in the Gulf of Mexico, on April 20, 2010, Case No. 10-md-02179 (E.D. La.) (the “MDL”). Pursuant to orders issued in the MDL, the claims have been consolidated in several master complaints, including one naming Nalco and others who responded to the Gulf Oil Spill (known as the “B3 Bundle”). At this time, we do not know how many cases will be in the B3 Bundle. A tentative list of cases includes fifteen cases (including some putative class actions) in the B3 Bundle. Six cases previously filed against Nalco are not included in the B3 Bundle. The two cases that have not been consolidated in the MDL are pending in state court in Mississippi and Louisiana. Nalco Company, the incident defendants and the other responder defendants have been named as third party defendants by Transocean Deepwater Drilling, Inc. and its affiliates (the “Transocean Entities”) (In re the Complaint and Petition of Triton Asset Leasing GmbH, et al, MDL No. 2179, Civil Action 10-2771). In April and May 2011, the Transocean Entities, Cameron International Corporation, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc., M-I L.L.C., Weatherford U.S., L.P. and Weatherford International, Inc. (collectively, the “Cross Claimants”) filed cross claims in MDL 2179 against Nalco Company and other unaffiliated cross defendants. The Cross Claimants generally allege, among other things, that if they are found liable for damages resulting from the Deepwater Horizon explosion, oil spill and/or spill response, they are entitled to indemnity or contribution from the cross defendants. In April and June 2011, in support of its defense of the claims against it, Nalco Company filed counterclaims against the Cross Claimants. In its counterclaims, Nalco Company generally alleges that if it is found liable for damages resulting from the Deepwater Horizon explosion, oil spill and/or spill response, it is entitled to contribution or indemnity from the Cross Claimants. We believe the claims against Nalco are without merit and intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously. We also believe that we have rights to contribution and/or indemnification (including legal expenses) from third parties. However, we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, the involvement we might have in these matters in the future or the potential for future litigation. Accordingly, these lawsuits could have a material adverse affect on our consolidated results of operation, financial position and cash flows. Our growth depends upon our ability to successfully compete with respect to value, innovation and customer support: Our competitive market is made up of numerous global, national, regional and local competitors. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish this or that technological developments by our competitors will not place certain of our products at a competitive disadvantage in the future. In addition, certain of the new products that we have under development will be offered in markets in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in those new markets. If we fail to introduce new technologies on a timely basis, we may lose market share and our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected. We have substantial indebtedness following the Nalco merger which will impact our financial flexibility: As of December 31, 2011, we had net debt of $5.8 billion. Our substantial indebtedness may adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations and financial position including in the following respects: 21 Table of Contents · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to debt service obligations, thereby potentially reducing the availability of cash flows to pay cash dividends and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general operating requirements and opportunities; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, debt service obligations and other general operating requirements; · placing us at a relative competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt; · limiting flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in the businesses and industries in which we operate, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to meet our debt service obligations; and · increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions. In addition, approximately $1.0 billion of our debt is floating rate debt. A one percentage point increase in the average interest rate on our floating rate debt would increase future interest expense by approximately $10 million per year. Accordingly a significant spike in interest rates would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. If we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our substantial indebtedness may intensify. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security: We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure. The size and complexity of our computer systems make them potentially vulnerable to breakdown, malicious intrusion and random attack. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested heavily in protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. If we are unsuccessful in integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected: As part of our long-term strategy, we seek to acquire complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates or succeed at effectively managing the integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses. If the underlying business performance of such acquired businesses deteriorates, the expected synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected. We enter into multi-year contracts with customers that can impact our results: Our multi-year contracts with some of our customers include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on our margins and consolidated results of operations. Consolidation of our customers and vendors can affect our results: Customers and vendors in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, healthcare, food processing and pulp and paper industries as well as other industries we serve have consolidated in recent years and that trend may continue. This consolidation could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers and on our margins and consolidated results of operations. Severe public health outbreaks may adversely impact our business: Our business could be adversely affected by the effect of a public health epidemic. The United States and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, public health outbreaks such as Avian Flu, SARS and H1N1 influenza. A prolonged occurrence of a contagious disease such as these could result in a significant downturn in the 22 Table of Contents foodservice, hospitality and travel industries and also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel further impacting our end markets. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for some of our products and services and adversely affect our business. We will incur significant expenses related to the amortization of intangible assets and may be required to report losses resulting from the impairment of goodwill or other assets recorded in connection with the merger: The Nalco merger is treated as an acquisition of Nalco by Ecolab for accounting purposes. Both Ecolab and Nalco have in the past expanded their operations through other acquisitions and joint ventures involving businesses owned by third parties. Ecolab expects to continue to complete selected acquisitions and joint venture transactions in the future. In connection with acquisition and joint venture transactions, applicable accounting rules generally require the tangible and intangible assets of the acquired business to be recorded on the balance sheet of the acquiring company at their fair values. Intangible assets other than goodwill are required to be amortized over their estimated useful lives and this expense may be significant. Any excess in the purchase price paid by the acquiring company over the fair value of tangible and intangible assets of the acquired business is recorded as goodwill. Our merger with Nalco resulted in goodwill of $4.4 billion which will ultimately be maintained in separate reporting units. If it is later determined that the anticipated future cash flows from the acquired business may be less than the carrying values of the assets and goodwill of the acquired business, the assets or goodwill may be deemed to be impaired. In this case, the acquiring company may be required under applicable accounting rules to write down the value of the assets or goodwill on its balance sheet to reflect the extent of the impairment. This write-down of assets or goodwill is generally recognized as a non-cash expense in the statement of operations of the acquiring company for the accounting period during which the write down occurs. If we determine that any of the assets or goodwill recorded in connection with the Nalco merger or any other prior or future acquisitions or joint venture transactions have become impaired, we will be required to record a loss resulting from the impairment. Impairment losses could be significant and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Future events may impact our deferred tax position, including the utilization of foreign tax credits and undistributed earnings of international affiliates that are considered to be reinvested indefinitely: We evaluate the recoverability of deferred tax assets and the need for deferred tax liabilities based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between future projected operating performance and actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments (either increases or decreases), to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance are determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry-back or carry-forward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates used to establish the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Changes to the valuation allowance or the amount of deferred tax liabilities could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Further, should the Company change its assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of the undistributed earnings of international affiliates, a deferred tax liability may need to be established. Extraordinary events may significantly impact our business: The occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters, (e) water shortages or (f) severe weather conditions affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries may have a material adverse effect on our business. Defense of litigation, particularly certain types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement, wage hour and class action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately successful, and if not 23 Table of Contents successful could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. While we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse effect on our financial position. War (including acts of terrorism or hostilities), natural or manmade disasters, water shortages or severe weather conditions affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries cause a downturn in the business of restaurants, motels and hotels and other of our customers, which in turn can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 