Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors, which are not all-inclusive, should be carefully considered, together with the other information in this Form 10-K, in evaluating us. If any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. Risks Related to our Business We may be unable to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital, debt service, and other liquidity needs. We are currently experiencing significant liquidity constraints, and we may not have sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service and other liquidity needs. Although we have implemented certain strategic alternatives to address our liquidity issues, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. We are currently 10 Table of Contents reviewing our alternatives and may adopt other strategies, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness or capital structure. For more information, see “Risks Related to our Indebtedness.” Our business largely depends on the levels of exploration and development activity in the oil and natural gas industry. A decrease in this activity caused by low oil and gas prices, reduced demand or other factors will have an adverse effect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. Our business is substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and natural gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of oil and gas companies to make capital expenditures for exploration, development and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing views of future oil and natural gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors, including but not limited to: · changes in United States and international economic conditions, including the length and severity of the recent recession and the effect of such recession on economic activity; · demand for oil and natural gas; · worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; · actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; · the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves; · the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; · the cost of exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas; · the ability of oil and gas companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; · the sale and expiration dates of leases in the United States and overseas; · technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; · weather conditions; · environmental or other government regulations both domestic and foreign; · domestic and foreign tax policies; and · the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their oil and gas reserves. Historically, demand for our services has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by oil and gas companies. A sustained period of low drilling and production activity, low commodity prices or reductions in industry budgets could reduce demand for our services and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We operate under hazardous conditions that subject us and our employees to risk of damage to property or personal injury and limitations on our insurance coverage may expose us to potentially significant liability costs. Our activities are often conducted in dangerous environments and include hazardous conditions, including operation of heavy equipment, the detonation of explosives, and operations in remote areas of developing countries. Operating in such environments, and under such conditions, carries with it inherent risks, such as loss of human life or equipment, as well as the risk of downtime or reduced productivity resulting from equipment failures caused by an adverse operating environment. These risks could cause us to experience equipment losses, injuries to our personnel and interruptions in our business. 11 Table of Contents Although we maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection, our insurance contains certain coverage exclusions and policy limits and we cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or adequate to cover all losses or liabilities or that insurance will continue to be available to us or available to us on acceptable terms. Further, we may experience difficulties in collecting from insurers as such insurers may deny all or a portion of our claims for insurance coverage. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured, or which is excluded from coverage or exceeds the policy limits of our applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Moreover, we do not carry business interruption insurance with respect to our operations. Historically, we have been dependent on a few customers operating in a single industry; the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas drilling business throughout the world. Historically, we have been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, our top ten customers collectively represented approximately 54%, 50%, and 70% of total revenues, respectively. Our three largest customers in 2011, 2010 and 2009 accounted for approximately 29%, 25%, and 45% of total revenues, respectively. This concentration of customers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk, and customers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. If any of these significant clients were to terminate their contracts or fail to contract for our services in the future because they are acquired, alter their exploration or development strategy, or for any other reason, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest in acquiring and processing seismic data for multi-client surveys and for our seismic data library without knowing precisely how much of this seismic data we will be able to sell or when and at what price we will be able to sell such data. Multi-client surveys and the resulting seismic data library are an increasingly important part of our business and our future investments. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data that we own. By making such investments, we are exposed to the following risks: · We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring, processing and interpreting seismic data through future sales. The amounts of these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. · The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility. · Regulatory changes that affect the ability of oil and gas companies to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and interest of oil and gas companies to explore in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant decline in value beyond our initial estimates. · The value of our multi-client seismic data library could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. · The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong. The result could be losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could lose a material amount of money. Any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents The seismic data acquisition services industry is capital intensive and sources of cash to finance our capital expenditures may not always be available. If financing is not available, our results of operations will be negatively affected. Seismic data acquisition equipment is continually being improved with new technology. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand our seismic data acquisition capabilities. Seismic data acquisition equipment is expensive and our ability to operate and expand our business operations is dependent upon the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives. Such financing may consist of bank or commercial debt, equity or debt securities or any combination thereof. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining sufficient capital to upgrade and expand our current operations through cash from operations or additional financing or other transactions if and when required on terms acceptable to us. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the changing market for seismic services, increases in capital and technological requirements, and other matters associated with our operations, we are unable to estimate the amount or terms of any financing that we may need to acquire, upgrade and maintain seismic equipment. If we are unable to obtain such financing, if and when needed, we may be forced to curtail our business objectives, and to finance our business activities with only such internally generated funds as may then be available. Our high level of fixed costs can leave us vulnerable to downturns in revenues, which can result in losses. We are subject to high fixed costs which primarily consist of depreciation, maintenance expenses associated with our seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment and certain crew costs. Extended periods of significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays or other causes could negatively affect our results and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we will not be able to reduce our fixed costs as fast as revenues decline. We face intense competition in our business that could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and likely will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. We also face increasing competition from nationally-owned companies in various international jurisdictions that operate under less significant financial constraints than those we experience. Additionally, the seismic data acquisition services business is extremely price competitive and has a history of protracted periods where seismic contractors under financial duress bid jobs below cost and therefore adversely impact industry pricing. Competition from these and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers for specific seismic services and equipment. Loss of any of these suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a limited number of third parties to supply us with specific seismic services and equipment. From time to time, increased demand for seismic data acquisition services has decreased the available supply of new seismic equipment, resulting in extended delivery dates on orders. Any delay in obtaining equipment could delay our implementation of additional crews and restrict the productivity of our existing crews, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. In addition, any adverse change in the terms of our supplier arrangements could affect our results of operations. Revenue derived from our projects may not be sufficient to cover our costs of completing those projects or may not result in the profit we anticipated when we entered into the contract. Therefore, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our revenue is determined, in part, by the price we receive for our services, the productivity of our crew and the accuracy of our cost estimates. Our crew’s productivity is partly a function of external factors, such as weather and third party delays, over which we have no control. In addition, cost estimates for our projects may be inadequate due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions, resulting in cost over-runs. If our crew encounters operational difficulties or delays, or if we have not correctly priced our services, our results of operation may vary, and in some cases, may be adversely affected. Many of our projects are performed on a turnkey basis where a defined amount and scope of work is provided by us for a fixed price and additional work, which is subject to client approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from our estimated amount because of changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, and the performance of subcontractors. Turnkey contracts may also cause us to bear substantially all of the risks of business interruption caused by weather delays and other hazards. These 13 Table of Contents variations, delays and risks inherent in billing clients at a fixed price may result in us experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects. Our clients could delay, reduce or cancel their commitments or service contracts with us on short notice, which may lead to lower than expected demand and revenues. Our estimated backlog revenue consists of written orders or commitments for our services that we believe to be firm. We estimate our total seismic data acquisition and seismic data processing and integrated reservoir geosciences services revenue backlog to be $590.6 million at December 31, 2011. Our backlog at December 31, 2011 included $446.2 million, or approximately 76%, from international proprietary seismic data acquisition projects, $106.2 million, or approximately 18%, from North America proprietary seismic data acquisition projects, $29.3 million, or approximately 5%, from multi-client seismic data acquisition projects in the United States, and $8.9 million, or approximately 1%, from our seismic data processing and integrated reservoir geosciences business. It is anticipated that approximately 81% of the backlog at December 31, 2011 will be completed in 2012, approximately 14% to be completed in 2013, with the remainder to be completed in 2014. Backlog levels vary during the year depending on the timing of the completion of certain projects and when new projects are awarded and contracts are signed. Because of potential changes in the scope or schedule of our clients’ projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if our backlog will be realized. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are cancelable by the client. Material delays, payment defaults or cancellations could reduce the amount of backlog currently reported, and, consequently, could inhibit the conversion of that backlog into revenue which may materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our agreements with our clients may not adequately protect us from unforeseen events or address all issues that could arise with our clients. The occurrence of unforeseen events, or disputes with clients not adequately addressed in the contracts could result in increased liability, costs and expenses associated with any given project. We enter into master service agreements with many of our clients which allocate certain operational risks. For example, we seek to minimize the risk of delays through the inclusion of “standby rate” provisions which provide for payment to us of a reduced rate for a limited amount of time if the weather conditions or certain other factors outside of our control prevent us from recording data. Despite the inclusion of risk allocation provisions in our agreements, our operations may be affected by a number of events that are unforeseen or not within our control. We cannot assure you that our agreements will adequately protect us from each possible event. If an event occurs which we have not contemplated or otherwise addressed in our agreement, we, and not our client, will likely bear the increased cost or liability. To the extent our agreements do not adequately address these and other issues, or we are not able to successfully resolve resulting disputes, we may incur increased liability, costs and expenses. We may be held liable for the actions of our subcontractors. We often work as the general contractor on seismic data acquisition surveys and consequently engage a number of subcontractors to perform services and provide products. While we obtain contractual indemnification and insurance covering the acts of these subcontractors, and require the subcontractors to obtain insurance for our benefit, there can be no assurance we will not be held liable for the actions of these subcontractors. In addition, subcontractors may cause damage or injury to our personnel and property that is not fully covered by insurance. Our results of operations can be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. Because we derive a substantial amount of our revenue from sales internationally, we are subject to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against such other currencies may, in future periods, have a significant effect upon our results of operations. While we attempt to reduce the risks associated with such exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot assure you that we will be effective in doing so or that fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which we operate will not materially affect our results of operations in the future. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations, or cash flows, and our exposure to such risks will increase as we expand our international operations. Our international proprietary operations are a significant part of our total operations. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 60%, 62%, and 81%, respectively, of our total revenues were derived outside of the U.S. and Canada. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including but not limited to: 14 Table of Contents · government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential clients to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; · potential expropriation, seizure, nationalization or detention of assets; · difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements; · civil uprisings, riots and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules and expose us to losses; · availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crewmembers or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; · decrees, laws, regulations, interpretation and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; · compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living abroad or traveling abroad; · foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; and · terrorist attacks, including personal harm to our personnel. As an example of the operational risks associated with our international operations, as a result of the civil unrest in Libya, we have been unable to operate our business or utilize our equipment in Libya since the first quarter of 2011. As an example of certain international compliance risks, we have recorded a provision at December 31, 2011 for the potential liability for employee related taxes for third country nationals performing work for the Company in certain countries in which it operated. As a company subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and the UK Bribery Act of 2010 (the “UK Bribery Act”), our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with these laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to them. Any determination that we or our foreign agents or joint venture partners have violated the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act may adversely affect our business and operations. We and our local partners operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using. As a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in such foreign markets could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain U.S. laws, including the FCPA. The UK Bribery Act, which became effective in 2011, is broader in scope than the FCPA and applies to public and private sector corruption and contains no facilitating payments exception. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, provincial, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including: · the acquisition of permits before commencing regulated activities; and · the limitation or prohibition of seismic activities in environmentally sensitive or protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and analogous state agencies in the United States and governmental bodies with control over environmental matters in foreign jurisdictions, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and any permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our controlled storage, use and disposal of explosives. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of explosives comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, the risk of accidental injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result or we could be penalized with fines, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside our insurance coverage. Current or future distressed financial conditions of customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the services we provide. Some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. Although we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial conditions, we generally require no collateral from our customers. We cannot provide assurance that one or more of our financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed. In addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our seismic data acquisition services revenues are subject to seasonal conditions. Our seismic data acquisition services are performed outdoors and are therefore subject to seasonality. Shorter winter days and adverse weather negatively impact our ability to provide services in certain regions. Additionally, while we plan for our international operations to take place during favorable seasons, we have limited control over the actual timing of these operations due to the extensive planning, preparation and permits required to perform a seismic survey in certain areas, which may cause our operations to be delayed and result in additional costs. We may be unable to retain and attract management and skilled and technically knowledgeable employees. Our continued success depends upon retaining and attracting highly skilled employees. A number of our employees possess many years of industry experience and are highly skilled and our inability to retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the seismic service industry. We may face significant competition for such skilled personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Although we utilize employment agreements, stock-based compensation and other incentives to retain certain of our key employees, there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain these personnel. 16 Table of Contents We rely on certain proprietary information, proprietary software, trade secrets and confidentiality and licensing agreements to conduct our current operations. We rely on certain proprietary information, proprietary software, trade secrets and confidentiality and licensing agreements to conduct our current operations. We are continuously working to improve our technology and operating techniques, through internal development activities and working with our vendors to develop new technologies to maintain pace with industry innovation. Our future success will be partly dependent on our ability to maintain and extend our technology base and preserve our intellectual property without infringing on the rights of any third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our intellectual property or that our competitors will not develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our technologies. Our operating results from seismic data acquisition services can be significantly impacted from period to period due to a change in the timing of a few large jobs occurring at any one time. We have the capacity to field up to 25 seismic data acquisition crews. However, in any given period, we could have idle crews which result in a significant portion of our revenues, cash flows and earnings coming from a relatively small number of crews. Additionally, due to location, service line or particular job, some of our individual crews may achieve results that are a significant percentage of consolidated operating results. Should one or more of these crews experience significant changes in timing, our financial results are subject to significant variations from period to period. Factors that may result in these changes in timing include, but are not limited to, weather, permits, customer requirements and political unrest. Our operations are subject to delays related to obtaining land access rights from third parties which could affect our results of operations. Our seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by our inability to timely obtain access to both public and private land included within a seismic survey. We cannot begin surveys on property without obtaining permits from certain governmental entities as well as the permission of the parties who have rights to the land being surveyed. In recent years, it has become more difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain access rights as drilling activities have expanded into more populated and protected areas. Additionally, while land owners generally are cooperative in granting access rights, some have become more resistant to seismic and drilling activities occurring on their property and stall or refuse to grant these rights for various reasons. In our multi-client services business, we acquire data sets pertaining to large areas of land. Consequently, if we do not obtain land access rights from a specific land owner, we may not be able to provide a complete survey for that area. The failure to redact or remove the seismic information relating to mineral interests held by non-consenting third parties could result in claims against us for seismic trespass. In addition, governmental entities do not always grant permits within the time periods expected. Delays associated with obtaining such permits and significant omissions from a survey as a result of the failure to obtain consents could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by asset impairments. We periodically review our portfolio of equipment and intangible assets, including our multi-client seismic data library, for impairment. If the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from these assets falls below net book value we may be required to write down their value. If we are forced to write down the value of our intangible assets or equipment, these non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. The cyclical nature of, or a prolonged downturn in, our industry, can affect the carrying value of our long-lived assets and negatively impact our results of operations. We are required to annually assess whether the carrying value of long-lived assets has been impaired, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change which could indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If management determines that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable, our results of operations could be impacted by non-cash impairment charges. As a result of our September 30, 2011, goodwill impairment analysis, we recorded goodwill impairment charges totaling $132.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, which are included in asset impairments in our consolidated statement of operations. At December 31, 2011, we had no goodwill. 17 Table of Contents There are inherent limitations in all control systems and failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving our intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls. Material weaknesses in our internal controls affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports and our ability to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. A material weakness is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. During management’s review of our internal controls as of December 31, 2011, control deficiencies that constituted a material weakness related to the following was identified: · Financial Close Process: Controls over our financial close process were deficient in areas related to accrued liabilities, goodwill impairment and accounting for multi-client seismic data library. These deficiencies resulted from difficulties in accumulating complete and accurate information to estimate certain liabilities, inadequate review of work performed by third parties and material post-closing adjustments related to accounting for multi-client seismic data library resulting from difficulties in remediating deficiencies in time to allow us to assess the effectiveness of the controls as of December 31, 2011 due to the timing in which we formalized our controls and procedures related to this area. As of December 31, 2010, management identified material weaknesses in our entity level controls (control environment) and our corporate financial reporting process. Throughout 2011, management was actively engaged in the implementation of aggressive remediation efforts to address the material weaknesses, as well as other areas of risk. Key components of the comprehensive remediation program included the following: · Control Environment. We hired experienced personnel in key positions in our control environment. These included a Chief Financial Officer (30 years of experience), a Chief Accounting Officer (26 years of experience), a Chief Information Officer (31 years of experience), a Vice President of Finance and Treasurer (16 years of experience), a Vice President of Tax (16 years of experience), a Corporate Controller (20 years of experience), a Director of Internal Audit (40 years of experience) and a Corporate Tax Manager (28 years of experience). These personnel have extensive experience in the design, implementation and enforcement of an effective control environment. · Financial Reporting Process. We reorganized and began to upgrade the skill sets of the global accounting team. Additionally, we implemented uniform global accounting policies and procedures and improved the transparency of our financial reporting process through enhancements to our financial reporting system. During the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we built on the implementation of these policies and procedures, including improved month-end close processes and improved reporting requirements from our global accounting organization. Finally, we continued to make further improvements to our financial reporting system. Management believes that the actions taken throughout 2011 and the resulting improvement in controls remedied the material weakness associated with our control environment identified as of December 31, 2010. We are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes and will continue to diligently and vigorously review our financial reporting control and procedures. As we continue to evaluate and work to improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may decide to take additional measures to address our control environment. However, we cannot be certain that the measures undertaken will be sufficient to address any deficiencies identified or ensure that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to provide reliable and timely internal and external financial reports, our business and prospects could suffer material adverse effects. In addition, we may in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. 18 Table of Contents Climate change legislation or regulations could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas our clients intend to produce and so adversely affect the demand of our services. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings open the door for the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. On June 3, 2010, the EPA published its so-called GHG tailoring rule that begins the phase in of federal prevention of significant deterioration (PSD) permit requirements, for new sources and modifications, and Title V operating permits, for all sources that have the potential to emit specific quantities of GHGs. On October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published its amendments to the GHG reporting rule to include onshore and offshore oil and natural gas production facilities and onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage and distribution facilities, which may include facilities our clients operate. Reporting of GHG emissions from such facilities will be required on an annual basis beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. Although the federal government is unlikely to adopt legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, a number of states have taken measures to reduce GHG emission levels, which may include the development of GHG emission inventories and/or cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs require major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The adoption and implementation of legislation or regulatory programs imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our customers’ equipment and operations could curtail their activities, including the services we provide. Significant physical effects of climatic change have the potential to damage our facilities, disrupt our production activities and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. Climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our seismic acquisition operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low-lying areas, disruption of our production activities either because of climate-related damages to our facilities in our costs of operation potentially arising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by climate effects or increased costs for insurance coverage in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect effect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions but is not currently subject to regulation at the federal level. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, with results of the study anticipated to be available by late 2012, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. Legislation has been introduced before Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals 19 Table of Contents used in the fracturing process. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. For example, in December 2010, New York imposed a de facto moratorium on the issuance of permits for high-volume, horizontal hydraulic fracturing until state-administered environmental studies are finalized. The New York Department of Environmental Conservation, or NYDEC, issued a Revised Supplemental Generic Environmental Impact Statement in September 2011, as well as proposed regulations for high-volume hydraulic fracturing. NYDEC accepted public comment on both, with the comment period ending January 11, 2012. The final environmental study and regulations are expected in late 2012. Further, Pennsylvania has adopted a variety of regulations limiting how and where fracturing can be performed. Effective February 5, 2011, Pennsylvania requires operators to disclose all additives used in hydraulic fracturing fluids and the names and concentrations of chemicals subject to Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, Hazard Communication requirements. On August 23, 2011, the EPA published in the Federal Register a proposed rule to establish new air emission controls for oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing operations. The new emission standards seek to reduce volatile organic compound, or VOC, emissions, including a 95 percent reduction in VOCs emitted during the construction or modification of hydraulically-fractured wells. The EPA received public comment and conducted public hearings regarding the proposed rules and must take final action on them by April 3, 2012. In addition, on October 20, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to develop federal pre-treatment standards for wastewater discharges associated with hydraulic fracturing activities. If adopted, the new pretreatment rules will require coalbed methane and shale gas operations to pretreat wastewater before transferring it to treatment facilities. Proposed rules are expected in 2013 for coalbed methane and 2014 for shale gas. A portion of our seismic operations relate to the development of wells that will be subject to hydraulic fracturing. If new laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements the demand for our services will be reduced. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have substantial working capital and other liquidity needs, including for payments of interest on our Whitebox Revolving Credit Facility and the Notes, that we may be unable to satisfy. Any strategies we may pursue to address our working capital and other liquidity needs may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service or other obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and further impair our liquidity. During 2011, we continued to incur operating losses in our business units primarily due to delays in project commencements, low international asset utilization and the suspension at the end of the third quarter of one of our seismic contracts in Mexico due to a lift boat incident, which has since resumed operations. These events have caused a reduction in our available liquidity and we may not have the ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations and, therefore, sufficient liquidity to meet our anticipated working capital, debt service and other liquidity needs. Since the fourth quarter of 2011, we have implemented certain strategic alternatives to address our liquidity issues and high debt levels. These efforts include, among others, a focus on cost reductions, the suspension of certain activities around the world where we had operating losses, the identification of additional assets for potential sale, centralization of certain processes to provide a higher level of control over costs and a focus on bidding for services that do not require capital expenditures for additional equipment or the posting of performance or bid bonds. Restrictions under the indenture governing the Notes and the Whitebox Revolving Credit Facility may impair or limit our ability to pursue certain strategies without the consent of our lenders. Further, our ability to raise cash through assets sales may be impacted by our ability to locate potential buyers in a timely fashion, or at all, and obtain a reasonable price, and by any competing asset sale programs initiated by our competitors. It is also possible that any asset sales could be below our current book value for such assets, which could result in recorded losses that could be substantial. Given our significant liquidity constraints, even a small deviation from the assumptions used to prepare the forecasts for these strategic alternatives could impair our ability to meet our liquidity needs. We cannot assure you that any of these efforts will be successful or will result in cost reductions or additional cash flows or the timing of any such cost reductions or additional cash flows. We engaged a financial advisor to assist us in evaluating capital structure alternatives. We are currently reviewing our alternatives, and we may adopt other strategies that may include actions such as a refinancing or restructuring of our indebtedness or capital structure, reducing or delaying capital investments, delaying bids on new sales or seeking to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing. However, our current credit rating limits our ability to access the debt capital markets. In addition, the recent low trading price of our common stock severely limits our ability to raise substantial capital in the equity capital markets. Our ability to timely raise sufficient capital may also be limited by NYSE AMEX stockholder approval requirements for certain transactions involving the issuance of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or debt or equity restructuring would be possible or that additional equity or debt financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that any of our strategies will yield sufficient funds to meet our working capital or other liquidity needs, including for payments of interest 20 Table of Contents and principal on our debt in the future, and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could further materially and adversely affect our liquidity or financial position. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. We have a significant amount of debt and may incur substantial additional debt (including secured debt) in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $354.7 million, net of discount (excluding mandatorily redeemable preferred stock of $53.2 million, net of discount). We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges in future years. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks for us could intensify. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. In particular, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional debt; · pay dividends; · repay subordinated debt prior to its maturity; · grant additional liens on our assets; · enter into transactions with our affiliates; · repurchase stock; · make certain investments or acquisitions of substantially all or a portion of another entity’s business assets; and · merge with another entity or dispose of our assets. In addition, one of our debt agreements requires us to maintain certain financial covenants at one of our international subsidiaries. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may have a materially adverse effect on our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. Failure to maintain existing or to secure new financing could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. In the event of a default under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, it might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Additionally, we may not be able to amend our debt agreements or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms or without incurring substantial costs. Failure to maintain existing or secure new financing could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial position. Risks Related to our Common and Preferred Stock Our stock price may be volatile and may decrease in response to various factors, which could adversely affect our business and cause our stockholders to suffer significant losses. Although we are listed on a national exchange, our common stock is relatively illiquid and its price has been and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and the following: · decreases in prices for oil and natural gas resulting in decreased demand for our services; · variations in our operating results and failure to meet expectations of investors and analysts; · the public’s reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; · increases in interest rates; · the loss of customers; · competition; · overcapacity within industry; · illiquidity of the market for our common stock; · sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and · other developments affecting us or the financial markets. We are unable to predict the extent to which investor interest in us will affect the liquidity of our shares of common stock. If liquidity remains low, stockholders may have difficulty selling our common stock. The dividend and liquidation rights of the holders of our preferred stock and anti-dilution provisions of our preferred stock and warrants may adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Because we are seeking to preserve cash to meet our liquidity needs, we anticipate that we will continue to accrue or pay in kind dividends on our preferred stock and in the event we were to issue additional equity to meet our liquidity needs such issuance may trigger the anti-dilution provisions of our preferred stock and outstanding warrants which would further dilute the interests of our common stockholders. Our outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock are entitled to cumulative dividends of 9.75%, 11.75% and 11.50% (10.50% if timely paid in cash), respectively, per annum, compounded quarterly, of the original issue price of $250. We may pay quarterly dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock in cash or in kind, at our election, until December 16, 2015 (after which dividends are required to be paid in cash), and dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock accumulate unless paid quarterly in cash (which cash 22 Table of Contents payments are required after December 16, 2015 with respect to the Series C Preferred Stock). The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into a number of shares of common stock determined by dividing the then-current conversion price into the $250 per share liquidation preference plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, and votes on an as-converted basis with our common stockholders. In past quarters we have either accrued dividends on our preferred stock or, in the case of the Series B Preferred Stock, elected to pay the dividend in kind. As we either accrue dividends or pay dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock in kind, the outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred Stock will continue to dilute the ownership interest of our common stockholders as (i) the number of outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock increases, if the dividend is paid in kind, or (ii) the number of shares of common stock into which the Series B Preferred Stock is convertible increases, if the dividend is accrued but not paid. Furthermore, accrual of dividends on our preferred stock or the payment of in kind dividends of our Series B Preferred Stock increases the aggregate liquidation preference of our preferred stock, which must be paid first before our common stockholders are entitled to receive any amounts in a liquidation or similar event. As of December 31, 2011, the total amount of this liquidation preference was approximately $87.9 million. Because we are seeking to preserve cash to meet our liquidity needs, we anticipate that we will continue to accrue or pay in kind dividends on our preferred stock, which will further dilute the interests of our common stockholders. In addition, our Notes and the Whitebox Revolving Credit Facility generally restrict our ability to pay cash dividends on our preferred stock, subject to limited exceptions. Our outstanding preferred stock and warrants also contain certain anti-dilution provisions which are triggered when we issue equity for consideration which is below certain specified thresholds. As a result and given the depressed market value of our common stock, in the event we were to issue additional equity to meet our liquidity needs, it is likely that such issuance would trigger the anti-dilution provisions of our preferred stock and warrants, which would result in the preferred stock and warrants becoming convertible into more shares of common stock, thereby potentially further diluting our common stockholders. Our stock price may decline when our financial results decline or when events occur that are adverse to us or our industry. You can expect the market price of our common stock to decline when our financial results decline or otherwise fail to meet the expectations of the financial community or the investing public or at any other time when events actually or potentially adverse to us or the oil and natural gas industry occur. Our common stock price may decline to a price below the price you paid to purchase your shares of common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock and investors will be able to receive cash in respect of the shares of common stock only upon the sale of the shares. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We have no intention in the foreseeable future to pay any cash dividends on our common stock and our senior secured credit facility and the indenture that governs our senior secured notes restricts our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Therefore, an investor in our common stock will obtain an economic benefit from holding our common stock only after an increase in its trading price and only by selling the common stock. Holders of our preferred stock vote as a class with our common stock and have the ability to cast approximately 35% of the votes on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, and so will have significant influence on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Holders of our preferred stock also have the right to consent to certain corporate actions, which will prevent us from undertaking those actions without the consent of the holders of our preferred stock. Approximately 91% of our outstanding convertible preferred stock is held by Avista and its affiliates, and Avista owns an additional 2,863,954 shares of our common stock at December 31, 2011. The preferred stock votes as a class with our common stock on an as converted basis, and represents approximately 35% of the outstanding voting power of Geokinetics. In addition, the terms of the preferred stock provide that while the preferred stock is outstanding, the holders of preferred stock voting together as a class are entitled to elect one director of Geokinetics. Accordingly, Avista and the holders of our preferred stock are able to substantially influence matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors. Currently, two members of our Board of Directors are affiliates of Avista. In addition, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of preferred stock are required to approve each of the following transactions: · any amendment to our certificate of incorporation or by-laws; · any payment of a dividend to holders of our common stock or any repurchase of our common stock; 23 Table of Contents · any sale of all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries, or any merger or consolidation with another entity if our stockholders immediately prior to the merger own less than 50% of the entity resulting from the merger; · any reclassification or reorganization of our common stock; · the issuance of any securities on parity with or having preference to the preferred stock; · certain transaction with our management, related parties or affiliates, unless unaffiliated members of our Board of Directors approve the transaction; or · any increase or decrease in the number of directors on our Board of Directors. The holders of our Series B Preferred Stock have the preemptive right to acquire shares of our common stock that we may offer for cash in the future, other than shares sold in a public offering. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 