Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors, which are not all-inclusive, should be carefully considered, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes, in evaluating the Company. Other factors not specifically discussed in this report may also have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Economic conditions could negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company’s operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and gas industry. Recent disruptions in the credit markets and concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices, both of which have contributed to a decline in the Company stock price and corresponding market capitalization. 10 Form 10-K 03-12-09 Continued market deterioration could also jeopardize the performance of certain counterparty obligations, including those of the Company’s insurers, suppliers, customers and financial institutions. Although the Company monitors the creditworthiness of its counterparties, the current disruptions could lead to sudden changes in the counterparty’s liquidity. In the event any such party fails to perform, the Company’s financial results could be adversely affected and the Company could incur losses and its liquidity could be negatively impacted. The consequences of a prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity, decreased exploration and drilling and increased uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. A lower level in capital expenditure budgets of E&P companies could have a material adverse effect on the demand for its services. In addition, a general decline in the level of economic activity might result in lower commodity prices, which may also adversely affect its revenues. The Company’s business largely depends on the exploration and development activity in the oil and natural gas industry. The Company’s business is substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and natural gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of E&P companies to make capital expenditures for exploration, development and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing views of future oil and natural gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors, including but not limited to: · changes in United States and international economic conditions, including the potential for a recession; · demand for oil and natural gas, especially in the United States, China and India; · worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; · actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; · the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves; · the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; · the cost of exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas; · the ability of E&P companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; · the sale and expiration dates of leases in the United States and overseas; · technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; · weather conditions; · environmental or other government regulations both domestic and foreign; · domestic and foreign tax policies; and · the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their oil and gas reserves. Oil and natural gas prices were at historically high levels until experiencing a sharp decline during the second half of 2008. The recent volatility in the equity and financial markets has led to increased uncertainty regarding the outlook for the global economy. This heightened uncertainty, a worldwide decrease in hydrocarbon demand, and a steep decline in commodity prices, have caused many E&P companies to curtail planned capital spending, which may negatively affect the Company’s operations. A sustained period of low drilling and production activity, low commodity prices or reductions in industry budgets could reduce demand for the Company’s services and would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Form 10-K 03-12-09 The Company may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may hinder or prevent the Company from meeting its future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors. As a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets has diminished significantly. Although the Company has been able to successfully amend its revolving credit facility in the current economic climate, the Company may not be successful in the future. In particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduced, or in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. In addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. Due to these factors, the Company cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the Company may be unable to meet its obligations as they come due. Moreover, without adequate funding, the Company may be unable to execute its growth strategy, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its revenues and results of operations. The seismic data acquisition services industry is capital intensive and sources of cash to finance the Company’s capital expenditures may not always be available. Seismic data acquisition equipment is continually being improved with new technology. In order to remain competitive, the Company must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand its seismic data acquisition capabilities. Seismic data acquisition equipment is expensive and the Company’s ability to operate and expand its business operations is dependent upon the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives. Such financing may consist of bank or commercial debt, equity or debt securities or any combination thereof. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining sufficient capital to upgrade and expand its current operations through cash from operations or additional financing or other transactions if and when required on terms acceptable to the Company. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the changing market for seismic services, increases in capital and technological requirements, and other matters associated with the Company’s operations, the Company is unable to estimate the amount or terms of any financing that the Company may need to acquire, upgrade and maintain seismic equipment. If the Company is unable to obtain such financing, if and when needed, the Company may be forced to curtail its business objectives, and to finance its business activities with only such internally generated funds as may then be available. The Company’s seismic data acquisition services are often conducted in extreme weather, in difficult terrain and marine environments. As a result, these operations are subject to risks of injury to Company personnel and loss of seismic data acquisition equipment and operating in these environments can adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company operates outdoors in difficult terrain and marine environments, including mountainous areas and transition zones such as beaches, swamps and marshes. The Company is exposed to and adversely affected by severe weather conditions. The Company maintains insurance against the destruction of its seismic data acquisition equipment and injury to personnel and property that may result from its operations. However, the Company is not fully insured for all risks (including business interruption), either because such insurance is not available or because the Company elects not to obtain insurance coverage due to cost. In addition, under the Company’s turnkey contracts, the Company bears substantially all of the risk of loss due to adverse weather and operating conditions or loss of equipment. Delays due to hazardous weather and operating conditions, equipment losses or injury to Company personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability and results of operations. The Company’s operating results from seismic data acquisition services can be significantly impacted from quarter to quarter due to a change in the timing of a few large jobs occurring at any one time. The Company currently has the capacity to field up to 25 seismic data acquisition crews. However, in any given period, the Company could have idle crews which result in a significant portion of its revenues, cash flows and earnings coming from a relatively small number of crews. Additionally, due to location, service line or particular job, some of the Company’s individual crews may achieve results that are a significant percentage of consolidated operating results. Should one or more of these crews experience significant changes in timing, the Company’s financial results would be subject to significant variations from period to period. Factors that may result in these changes in timing include, but are not limited to, weather, permits, customer requirements and political unrest. Historically, the Company has been dependent on a few customers operating in a single industry; the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. 12 Form 10-K 03-12-09 The Company’s customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas drilling business throughout the world. Historically, the Company has been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of its revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company’s top ten customers collectively represented approximately 47%, 55% and 39% of total revenues, respectively. The Company’s three largest customers in 2008 accounted for 9%, 5% and 5% of total revenues, respectively. This concentration of customers may increase the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, and customers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. If any of these significant clients were to terminate their contracts or fail to contract for the Company's services in the future because they are acquired, alter their exploration or development strategy, or for any other reason, the Company's results of operations could be affected. Current or future distressed financial conditions of customers could have an adverse impact on the Company in the event these customers are unable to pay the Company for the services it provides. Some of the Company’s customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. Although the Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial conditions, the Company generally requires no collateral from its customers. The Company cannot provide assurance that one or more of its financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to the Company or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, future results of operations, or future cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of its customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that the Company would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. In addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of the Company’s products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s seismic data acquisition services revenues are subject to seasonal conditions and customers’ budgeting cycles. The Company’s seismic data acquisition services are performed outdoors and are therefore subject to seasonality. Shorter winter days and adverse weather negatively impact the Company’s ability to provide services in certain regions. Additionally, the Company has limited control over the timing of its international operations due to the extensive planning and preparation required to perform a seismic survey. The Company’s international operations have also been affected historically by the budgeting cycle of its customers, at times resulting in higher activity levels early in the year when available exploration budgets are high, and late in the year when its customers are trying to utilize their remaining budgets. The Company’s high level of fixed costs can leave it vulnerable to downturns in revenues, which can result in losses. Fixed costs, including costs associated with labor, depreciation and interest expense account for a substantial percentage of the Company’s costs and expenses. Accordingly, downtime or low productivity resulting from weather interruptions, reduced demand, equipment failures or other causes can result in significant losses. The Company faces intense competition in its business that could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and likely will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. The Company also faces increasing competition from nationally-owned companies in various international jurisdictions that operate under less significant financial constraints than those the Company experiences. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial and other resources, more clients, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry than the Company does. Additionally, the seismic data acquisition services business is extremely price competitive and has a history of protracted periods of months or years where seismic contractors under financial duress bid jobs below cost and therefore adversely impact industry pricing. Competition from these and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. 13 Form 10-K 03-12-09 The Company relies on a limited number of key suppliers for specific seismic services and equipment. The Company depends on a limited number of third parties to supply it with specific seismic services and equipment. The increased demand for seismic data acquisition services has decreased the supply of seismic equipment, resulting in extended delivery dates on orders of new equipment. Any delay in obtaining equipment could delay the Company’s implementation of additional crews and restrict the productivity of its existing crews, adversely affecting the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, any adverse change in the terms of the Company’s supplier arrangements could affect its results of operations. The profitability of many of the Company’s contracts depends significantly on its ability to perform the services without delays, which is often subject to factors beyond the Company’s control. A significant portion of the Company’s seismic data acquisition services are performed pursuant to turnkey contracts, under which the Company is paid a fixed fee per square mile of data acquired. Turnkey contracts cause the Company to bear substantially all of the risks of business interruption caused by weather delays and other hazards. Any event that causes delay in the Company’s performance on the contract will reduce the Company’s profitability or even lead to losses. The Company's clients could delay, reduce or cancel their commitments or service contracts with the Company on short notice, which may lead to lower than expected demand and revenues. The Company’s backlog consists of written orders or commitments for its services that the Company believes to be firm. At December 31, 2008, the Company estimates its backlog for its seismic data acquisition and seismic data processing and interpretation segments to be approximately $548.3 million. Contracts for services are occasionally varied or modified by mutual consent and in many instances are cancelable by the customer on short notice without penalty. As a result, the Company’s backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of its actual revenues for any succeeding fiscal period and even if its backlog is realized, it may not be profitable. The Company’s results of operations can be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. As a company that derives a substantial amount of its revenue from sales internationally, the Company is subject to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against such other currencies have had in the past, and can be expected in future periods to have, a significant effect upon the Company’s results of operations. While the Company attempts to reduce the risks associated with such exchange rate fluctuations, the Company cannot assure investors that it will be effective in doing so or that fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which the Company operates will not materially affect its results of operations in the future. The Company’s operations outside of the United States are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties that could adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations, and its exposure to such risks will increase as the Company expands its international operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 62% or $285.1 million, of the Company’s revenues from its seismic data acquisition services segment were derived outside of North America. In addition, an element of the Company’s business strategy is to expand the scope of its operations in international oil and natural gas producing areas such as the Middle East, Southeast Asia, the Mediterranean, Australia and Latin America. The Company’s operations outside of the United States are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including but not limited to: · political, social and economic instability; · the loss of revenue, property and equipment from hazards such as expropriation, nationalization, war, insurrection, acts of terrorism and other political risks; · increased operating costs; · increases in taxes and governmental royalties; · renegotiation or abrogation of contracts with governmental entities; · changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; · import-export quotas; · currency restrictions and exchange rate fluctuations; · world economic cycles; · limited market access; · other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over its international operations; and · compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws. In addition, laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect the Company’s international operations. 14 The Company’s operations are subject to government regulation which may adversely affect its future operations. The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern various aspects of its operations. These laws regulate the discharge of explosive materials into the environment, require the removal and clean-up of materials that may harm the environment and otherwise relate to the protection of the environment, and regulate access to private and governmental land to conduct seismic surveys. Although the costs of complying with applicable laws and regulations have historically not been material, the changing nature of such laws and regulations makes it impossible to predict the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on the Company’s future operations. The Company may be unable to retain and attract management and skilled and technically knowledgeable employees. The Company’s continued success depends upon retaining and attracting highly skilled employees. A number of the Company’s employees possess many years of industry experience and are highly skilled and the Company’s inability to retain such individuals could adversely affect its ability to compete in the seismic service industry. The Company may face significant and adverse competition for such skilled personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Although the Company utilizes employment agreements, stock-based compensation and other incentives to retain certain of its key employees, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to retain its key personnel. The Company’s stock price may be volatile and may decrease in response to various factors, which could adversely affect its business and cause its stockholders to suffer significant losses. Although the Company is listed on a national exchange, its common stock is illiquid and its price has been and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be influenced by many factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and the following: · decreases in prices for oil and natural gas resulting in decreased demand for the Company’s services; · variations in the Company’s operating results and failure to meet expectations of investors and analysts; · the public’s reaction to the Company’s press releases, other public announcements and its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”); · increases in interest rates; · the loss of customers; · competition; · overcapacity within industry; · illiquidity of the market for the Company’s common stock; · sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and · other developments affecting the Company or the financial markets. The Company is unable to predict the extent to which investor interest in the Company will affect the liquidity of the Company’s shares of common stock. If liquidity remains low, stockholders may have difficulty selling the Company’s common stock. 15 Form 10-K 03-12-09 A majority of the Company’s voting stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders whose interests may conflict with those of other holders and consent of the holders of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock will be required to take certain actions. Steven A. Webster, William R. Ziegler, Avista Capital Partners, L.P. (“Avista”) and their respective affiliates collectively own approximately 26% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2008. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, Avista and its affiliates own 367,274 shares of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock. Because the holders of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock have the right to vote on an as-converted basis with the holders of the Company’s common stock, voting together as a single class as of December 31, 2008, Avista and the stockholders named above have approximately 48% of the voting power of any matter brought for the vote of stockholders at a meeting. As a result of this ownership, these stockholders are able to decide any matter requiring the approval of holders of the Company’s common stock. Subject to the right of the holders of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock as discussed below, such matters include the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to the Company’s certificate of incorporation, by-laws and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of the Company’s assets. As long as at least 55,000 shares of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, the consent of the holders of a majority of the Series B Preferred Stock will be required to, among other things, make any material change to the Company’s certificate of incorporation or by-laws, declare a dividend on the Company’s common stock, increase or decrease the size of the Company board of directors or enter into a business combination. Accordingly, Avista and its affiliates presently have the ability to control these matters. Messrs. Webster and Ziegler are also members of the Company’s Board of Directors. Additionally, in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2006, by and among the purchasers of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock and the Company, Avista received the right to appoint one director to the Company’s board of directors. Accordingly, Robert L. Cabes, Jr. was appointed to the Company’s Board of Directors on November 2, 2006. The Company’s various credit agreements and capital leases contain various restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating the Company’s business. In particular, these covenants limit the Company’s ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt, including secured debt; · make certain investments or pay dividends or distributions on the Company’s capital stock or purchase or redeem or retire capital stock; · sell assets, including capital stock of the Company’s restricted subsidiaries; · cause its restricted subsidiaries to make certain payments; · create liens; · invest in capital expenditures; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · merge or consolidate with another company. Certain credit agreements also require the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests. The Company’s ability to maintain or meet such financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond the Company’s control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, and the Company cannot assure investors that it will maintain or meet such ratios and tests or that the lenders under the credit agreements will waive any failure to meet such ratios or tests. These covenants could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict the Company’s ability to expand, to pursue its business strategies and otherwise to conduct its business. The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond the Company’s control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to comply with them. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under some or all of the Company’s various credit agreements. If there were an event of default under the Company’s debt instruments, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if the Company fails to repay indebtedness under its credit agreements when they become due, the lenders under the credit agreement could proceed against the assets which the Company has pledged as security. 16 Form 10-K 03-12-09 The Company’s original estimates of the costs associated with its turnkey projects may be incorrect and result in reduced profitability, losses or cost over-runs on those projects. Many of the Company’s projects are performed on a turnkey basis where a defined work scope is delivered for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to customer approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from the estimated amount because of changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, and the performance of subcontractors. These variations and risks inherent in the business may result in the Company experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects. In addition, estimates for capital projects, may be inadequate, resulting in cost over-runs, due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions. There are inherent limitations in all control systems and failure of the Company’s controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm its business and results of operations. The Company’s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that its internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of the Company’s controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in the Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with its policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. If the Company fails to manage its growth effectively, its results of operations could be harmed. The Company has a history of growing through acquisitions of companies and assets. The Company must plan and manage its acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in its evolving market. If the Company fails to manage current and future acquisitions effectively, its results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company’s growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on its personnel, management and other resources. The Company must continue to improve its operational, financial, management and legal/compliance information systems to keep pace with the growth of its business. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including but not limited to: · incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; · failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; · diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities; and · the Company’s inability to secure, on terms it finds acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. The Company’s business plan anticipates, and is based upon, its ability to successfully complete acquisitions of other businesses or assets. The Company’s failure to do so, or to successfully integrate its acquisitions in a timely and cost effective manner, could have an adverse affect on its business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Form 10-K 03-12-09 The Company’s operations are subject to delays related to obtaining land access rights of way from third parties which could affect its results of operations. The Company’s seismic data acquisition operations could be adversely affected by its inability to obtain timely right of way usage from both public and private land and/or mineral owners. In recent years, it has become more difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain access rights of way as drilling activities have expanded into more populated areas, and landowners have become more resistant to seismic and drilling activities occurring on their property. Delays associated with obtaining such rights of way could negatively affect the Company’s results. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected by asset impairments. The Company periodically reviews its portfolio of equipment for impairment. If the Company expects significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, it may be required to write down the value of its equipment if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related equipment falls below net book value. The recent decline in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, could result in future impairments. If the Company is forced to write down the value of its equipment, these non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect its results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. See discussion of “Impairment of Long-Lived Assets” included in “Critical Accounting Policies.” The cyclical nature of, or a prolonged downturn in, the Company’s industry, could affect the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill or other intangible assets and negatively impact the Company’s earnings. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $73.4 million of goodwill or 16.7% of total assets. The Company has recorded goodwill because the Company paid more for some of its businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and measurable intangible net assets of those businesses at the time of acquisition. Upon the Company's annual review of its goodwill balance, if management determines that the carrying value of these long-lived assets may not be recoverable, the Company's goodwill could be reduced and therefore adversely impact its earnings. The Company did not have any impairments in the year ended December 31, 2008. This assessment includes many management assumptions including, but not limited to, business forecasts, risk premiums, cost of capital and market factors. Should any one or combination of these factors change, it could negatively impact the Company’s future assessments of the carrying values of these assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 