Item 1A. Risk Factors. We identify below for investors important factors which could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2 of this Form 10-K. Also, we may refer to this disclosure to identify risk factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements made in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public. Risk factors relating to our protection of the environment are located under Item 1(c) of this Form 10-K under the heading “Environmental and Regulatory Considerations,” and are incorporated herein by reference. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our operating results and business performance include: • the vitality of the foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care and food processing industries; • restraints on pricing flexibility due to competitive factors, customer or vendor consolidations, and existing contractual obligations; • changes in oil or raw material prices or unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes therefore; • the occurrence of capacity constraints or the loss of a key supplier or the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms; • the effect of future acquisitions or divestitures or other corporate transactions; • our ability to achieve plans for past acquisitions; • the costs and effects of complying with: (i) laws and regulations relating to the environment and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, efficacy and labeling of our products, and (ii) changes in tax, fiscal, governmental and other regulatory policies; • economic factors such as the worldwide economy, interest rates and currency movements including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk; • the occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters, or (e) severe weather conditions or public health epidemics affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries; • loss of, or changes in, executive management; • our ability to continue product introductions or reformulations and technological innovations; and • other uncertainties or risks reported from time to time in our reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 14 In addition, we note that our stock price can be affected by fluctuations in quarterly earnings. There can be no assurance that our earnings levels will meet investors’ expectations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 