Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be carefully considered, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K, including the Company’s financial statements and related notes, in evaluating the Company. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 10 The Company depends on capital expenditures by the oil and natural gas industry, and the decline in the price of oil and natural gas or decreases in the level of such expenditures could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Demand for the Company’s services depends upon the spending levels established by oil and natural gas companies for exploration, development, exploitation, and production of oil and natural gas. These activities depend in part on the prices of oil and natural gas. Fluctuations in these oil and natural gas activities and prices are beyond the Company’s control, can adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations, and have done so in the past. The oil and natural gas business is fundamentally a commodity business. This means the operations and earnings of these companies may be significantly affected by changes in oil and natural gas prices. Oil and natural gas prices in turn depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things: · levels of demand and production of oil and natural gas; · worldwide political, military and economic conditions; · weather, including seasonal patterns that affect regional energy demand as well as severe weather events that can disrupt supply; · levels of oil and natural gas reserves; and · government policies regarding exploration for and production and development of adherence by companies to OPEC quotas. Downturns in the oil and natural gas industry have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The seismic data acquisition services industry is capital intensive and sources of cash to finance the Company’s capital expenditures may not always be available. Seismic data acquisition equipment is continually being improved with new technology. In order to remain competitive, the Company must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand its seismic data acquisition capabilities. Seismic data acquisition equipment is expensive and the Company’s ability to operate and expand its business operations is dependent upon the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives. Such financing may consist of bank or commercial debt, equity or debt securities or any combination thereof. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining sufficient capital to upgrade and expand its current operations through cash from operations or additional financing or other transactions if and when required on terms acceptable to the Company. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the changing market for seismic services, increases in capital and technological requirements, and other matters associated with the Company’s operations, the Company is unable to estimate the amount or terms of any financing that the Company may need to acquire, upgrade and maintain seismic equipment. If the Company is unable to obtain such financing, if and when needed, the Company may be forced to curtail its business objectives, and to finance its business activities with only such internally generated funds as may then be available. The Company’s seismic data acquisition services are often conducted in extreme weather, in difficult terrain and marine environments. As a result, these operations are subject to risks of injury to Company personnel and loss of seismic data acquisition equipment and operating in these environments can adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company operates outdoors in difficult terrain and marine environments, including mountainous areas and transition zones such as beaches, swamps and marshes. The Company is exposed to and 11 adversely affected by severe weather conditions. In December of 2006, the Company experienced a fire during the transportation of equipment and lost several pieces of field equipment. The Company expects to receive insurance proceeds to offset a majority of the cost of the equipment lost. The Company maintains insurance against the destruction of its seismic data acquisition equipment and injury to person and property that may result from its operations. However, the Company is not fully insured for all risks (including business interruption), either because such insurance is not available or because the Company elects not to obtain insurance coverage due to cost. In addition, under the Company’s turnkey contracts, the Company bears substantially all of the risk of loss due to adverse weather and operating conditions or loss of equipment. Delays due to hazardous weather and operating conditions, equipment losses or injury to Company personnel can adversely affect the Company’s profitability and results of operations. The Company’s operating results from seismic data acquisition services can be significantly impacted from quarter to quarter due to a change in the timing of a few large jobs occurring at any one time. The Company currently has the capacity to field up to 22 seismic data acquisition crews. However, in any given period, the Company could have idle crews which result in a significant portion of its revenues, cash flows and earnings coming from a relatively small number of crews. Additionally, due to location, service line or particular job, some of the Company’s individual crews may achieve results that are a significant percentage of consolidated operating results. Should one or more of these crews experience significant changes in timing, the Company’s financial results are subject to significant variations from period to period. Factors that may result in these changes in timing include, but are not limited to, weather, permits, customer requirements and political unrest. Historically, the Company has been dependent on a few customers operating in a single industry; the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas drilling business throughout the world. Historically, the Company has been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of its revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2006 and the year ended December 31, 2005, the Company’s top ten customers collectively represented approximately 39% and 69% of total revenues, respectively. No single customer generated over 10% of the Company’s revenues in 2006. In 2005, Seitel Data, Ltd. (a division of Seitel, Inc.), Smith Production Company and Krescent Energy Company accounted for 14%, 13% and 12%, respectively. This concentration of customers may increase the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, and customers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. The Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of its significant customers fails to pay the Company or ceases to contract for its services on terms that are favorable to the Company or at all. The Company’s seismic data acquisition services revenues are subject to seasonal conditions and its customers’ budgeting cycles. The Company’s seismic data acquisition services are performed outdoors and are therefore subject to seasonality. Shorter winter days and adverse weather negatively impact the Company’s ability to provide services in certain regions. Additionally, the Company has limited control over the timing of its international operations due to the extensive planning and preparation required to perform a seismic survey. The Company’s international operations have also been affected historically by the budgeting cycle of its customers, at times resulting in higher activity levels early in the year when available exploration budgets are high, and late in the year when its customers are trying to utilize their remaining budgets. 12 The Company’s high level of fixed costs can leave it vulnerable to downturns in revenues, which can result in losses. Fixed costs, including costs associated with labor, depreciation and interest expense account for a substantial percentage of the Company’s costs and expenses. Accordingly, downtime or low productivity resulting from weather interruptions, reduced demand, equipment failures or other causes can result in significant losses. The Company may not be able to make its seismic data processing and interpretation services segment a profitable business segment. The Company’s seismic data processing and interpretation services segment continues to incur high fixed costs in relation to its revenues and has incurred losses in recent periods. The Company may not be able to make its data processing services a profitable business segment. The Company faces intense competition in its business that could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and likely will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. The Company also faces increasing competition from nationally-owned companies in various international jurisdictions that operate under less significant financial constraints than those the Company experiences. Many of the Company’s competitors have greater financial and other resources, more clients, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry than the Company does. Additionally, the seismic data acquisition services business is extremely price competitive and has a history of protracted periods of months or years where seismic contractors under financial duress bid jobs below cost and therefore adversely impact industry pricing. Competition from these and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. The Company relies on a limited number of key suppliers for specific seismic services and equipment. The Company depends on a limited number of third parties to supply it with specific seismic services and equipment. The increased demand for seismic data acquisition services has decreased the supply of seismic equipment, resulting in extended delivery dates on orders of new equipment. Any delay in obtaining equipment could delay the Company’s implementation of additional crews and restrict the productivity of its existing crews, adversely affecting the Company’s business and results of operations. In addition, any adverse change in the terms of the Company’s supplier arrangements could affect its results of operations. The profitability of many of the Company’s contracts depends significantly on its ability to perform the services without delays, which is often subject to factors beyond the Company’s control. A significant portion of the Company’s seismic data acquisition services are performed pursuant to turnkey contracts, under which the Company is paid a fixed fee per square mile of data acquired. Turnkey contracts cause the Company to bear substantially all of the risks of business interruption caused by weather delays and other hazards. Any event that causes delay in the Company’s performance on the contract will reduce the Company’s profitability or even lead to losses. The Company may not realize its backlog, which may lead to lower than expected revenues. The Company’s backlog consists of written orders or commitments for its services that the Company believes to be firm. At December 31, 2006, the Company estimates its backlog for its seismic data 13 acquisition and seismic data processing and interpretation segments was approximately $311.3 million. The Company may never realize some or all of its backlog. Contracts for services are occasionally varied or modified by mutual consent and in many instances are cancelable by the customer on short notice without penalty. As a result, the Company’s backlog as of any particular date may not be indicative of its actual revenues for any succeeding fiscal period and even if its backlog is realized, it may not be profitable. The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations that could harm its business and results of operations. With operations worldwide, and with 25% of its revenues or $54.8 million from its seismic data acquisition services segment for the year ended December 31, 2006 derived outside of North America, the Company’s business and results of operations are subject to various risks inherent in international operations. These risks include: · instability of foreign economies, governments and government-owned E&P Companies; · risks of war, political unrest or seizure of assets; · foreign exchange restrictions, laws and other policies affecting trade and investment; and · difficulty and cost of enforcing contracts. The Company’s international operations have become a much larger percentage of consolidated revenue following the acquisition of Grant. The Company cannot assure that it will not be subject to material adverse developments with respect to its international operations. The Company’s results of operations can be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. As a company that derives a substantial amount of its revenue from sales internationally, the Company is subject to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against such other currencies have had in the past and can be expected in future periods to have a significant effect upon the Company’s results of operations. While the Company attempts to reduce the risks associated with such exchange rate fluctuations, the Company cannot assure that it will be effective in doing so or that fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which the Company operates will not materially affect its results of operations in the future. The Company’s operations are subject to government regulation which may adversely affect its future operations. The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern various aspects of its operations. These laws regulate the discharge of explosive materials into the environment, require the removal and clean-up of materials that may harm the environment and otherwise relate to the protection of the environment, and regulate access to private and governmental land to conduct seismic surveys. Although the costs of complying with applicable laws and regulations have historically not been material, the changing nature of such laws and regulations makes it impossible to predict the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on the Company’s future operations. If the Company does not effectively integrate the Grant acquisition, its operating results could be affected. The Company acquired Grant in September 2006, which significantly increased the number of seismic crews it could deploy from 9 up to 20, at the time of acquisition. This substantial increase in the Company’s seismic data acquisition capacity has strained its personnel, management and processes. If the Company does not integrate Grant effectively, its profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected, management’s attention could be diverted from other responsibilities and the Company’s future growth could be curtailed. 14 The Company may be unable to retain and attract management and skilled and technically knowledgeable employees. The Company’s continued success depends upon retaining and attracting highly skilled employees. A number of the Company’s employees possess many years of industry experience and are highly skilled and the Company’s inability to retain such individuals could adversely affect its ability to compete in the seismic service industry. The Company may face significant and adverse competition for such skilled personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Although the Company utilizes employment agreements, stock-based compensation and other incentives to retain certain of its key employees, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to retain its key personnel. The Company’s common stock is currently traded on the “over the counter” (“OTC”) market, which may generally involve certain risks not present in all securities. The Company’s stock price may be volatile and may decrease in response to various factors, which could adversely affect its business and cause its stockholders to suffer significant losses. Bulletin Board Securities are over-the-counter securities that are not part of the NASDAQ system. Bulletin Board securities trade in the “over-the-counter” OTC market and are quoted on the OTC system such as, OTC Bulletin Board (OTC BB or the Pink Sheets). Although the NASD oversees the OTCBB, the OTCBB is not part of the NASDAQ market. Market makers of Bulletin Board securities are unable to use electronic means to interact with other dealers to execute trades, which can cause delays in the time it takes to interact with the market place. Risks associated with trading bulletin board securities may include: limited availability of order information and market data, liquidity risks, and communications risks. The Company’s common stock is very illiquid and its price has been and may continue to be volatile in the indefinite future. The market price of the Company’s common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, including the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and the following: · decreases in prices for oil and natural gas resulting in decreased demand for the Company’s services; · variations in the Company’s operating results and failure to meet expectations of investors and analysts; · the public’s reaction to the Company’s press releases, other public announcements and its filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”); · increases in interest rates; · the loss of customers; · competition; · illiquidity of the market for the Company’s common stock; · sales of common stock by existing stockholders; and · other developments affecting the Company or the financial markets. The Company may not be approved for listing on a nationally recognized exchange and/or an active trading market may not develop to provide investors with adequate liquidity. The Company has applied to have its common stock listed on a nationally recognized exchange. However, the Company cannot predict if it will be approved for such listing or the extent to which investor interest in the Company will lead to the development of an active trading market on a nationally recognized exchange in the Company’s shares of common stock or how liquid that market might become. 15 If the Company is not approved to list on a nationally recognized exchange or an active trading market does not develop, stockholders may have difficulty selling the Company’s common stock. A majority of the Company’s voting stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders whose interests may conflict with those of other holders and consent of the holders of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock will be required to take certain actions. Steven A. Webster, William R. Ziegler, Maple Leaf Partners, L.P. and Avista and their respective affiliates collectively own approximately 61% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, Avista and its affiliates own 208,622 shares of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock. Because the holders of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock have the right to vote on an as-converted basis with the holders of the Company’s common stock, voting together as a single class, Avista and the stockholders named above have 73% of the voting power of any matter brought for the vote of shareholders at a meeting. As a result of this ownership, these stockholders are able to decide any matter requiring the approval of holders of the Company’s common stock. Subject to the right of the holders of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock as discussed below, such matters include the election of directors, the adoption of amendments to the Company’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws and approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of the Company’s assets. As long as at least 55,000 shares of the Company’s Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, the consent of the holders of a majority of the Series B Preferred Stock will be required to, among other things, make any material change to the Company’s certificate of incorporation or by-laws, declare a dividend on the Company’s common stock, increase or decrease the size of the Company board of directors or enter into a business combination. Accordingly, Avista and its affiliates presently have the ability to control these matters. The Company has a substantial amount of debt, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial health and adversely affect the trading price of Company’s common stock. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had approximately $117.2 million of consolidated total indebtedness outstanding and approximately $21.0 million of additional secured borrowing capacity available under its Credit Agreement. The Company’s substantial debt could have important consequences including the following. It could: · increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including declines in oil and natural gas prices and declines in drilling activities; · require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its debt, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow for operations and other purposes; · limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, mergers and other general corporate purposes; · limit the Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the industry in which the Company operates; · make the Company more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; · place the Company at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt; and · have a material adverse effect on the Company if the Company fails to comply with the covenants in the indenture relating to the Floating Rate Notes or in the instruments governing its other debt. 16 In addition, the Company may incur substantial additional debt in the future. If new debt is added to the Company’s current debt levels, these related risks could increase. The Company may not maintain sufficient revenues to sustain profitability or to meet its capital expenditure requirements and its financial obligations. Also, the Company may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet its debt service obligations. If the Company’s cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund its debt service obligations and capital expenditure plans, the Company may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansion and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure its debt, all of which could have an adverse effect on the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The majority of the Company’s debt is floating rate. The Company has $110.0 million of Floating Rate Notes outstanding. Should interest rates increase significantly, it could have a material negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The indentures governing the Company’s various credit agreements contain various restrictive covenants that limit management’s discretion in operating the Company’s business. In particular, these covenants limit the Company’s ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt, including secured debt; · make certain investments or pay dividends or distributions on the Company’s capital stock or purchase or redeem or retire capital stock; · sell assets, including capital stock of the Company’s restricted subsidiaries; · restrict dividends or other payments by restricted subsidiaries; · create liens; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · merge or consolidate with another company. Certain credit agreements also require the Company to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial tests. The Company’s ability to maintain or meet such financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond the Company’s control, including changes in general economic and business conditions, and the Company cannot assure that it will maintain or meet such ratios and tests or that the lenders under the credit agreements will waive any failure to meet such ratios or tests. These covenants could materially and adversely affect the Company’s ability to finance its future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict the Company’s ability to expand, to pursue its business strategies and otherwise to conduct its business. The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond the Company’s control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and the Company cannot provide assurance that it will be able to comply with them. A breach of these covenants could result in a default under the indenture governing the Company’s various credit agreements. If there were an event of default under the Company’s debt instruments, the affected creditors could cause all amounts borrowed under these instruments to be due and payable immediately. Additionally, if the Company fails to repay indebtedness under the credit agreements and notes when it becomes due, the lenders under the credit agreement and the trustee on behalf of the holders of the Notes could proceed against the assets which the Company has pledged as security. 17 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 