Item 1A. Risk Factors Decline in the price of oil and gas or decreases in the level of capital expenditures by oil and gas companies could adversely affect the Company’s operations. Demand for the Company’s services depends upon the spending levels established by oil and gas companies for exploration, development, exploitation, and production of oil and natural gas. These activities depend in part on the prices of oil and gas. Fluctuations in these oil and gas activities and prices are out of the Company’s control, can adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations, and have done so in the past. The oil and gas business is fundamentally a commodity business. This means the operations and earnings of these companies may be significantly affected by changes in oil and gas prices. Oil and gas prices in turn depend on local, regional and global events or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. These events or conditions are generally not predictable and include, among other things: • levels of demand for and production of oil and gas; • worldwide political, military and economic conditions; • weather, including seasonal patterns that affect regional energy demand as well as severe weather events that can disrupt supply; • level of oil and gas reserves; and • government policies regarding exploration for and production and development of adherence by companies to OPEC quotas. 6 The Company is dependent on the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives to maintain its position in the seismic acquisition industry. The seismic acquisition industry is capital intensive principally due to the high cost of seismic acquisition equipment. The Company continues to invest additional capital to upgrade and expand its seismic acquisition capabilities. The cost of equipping a crew with a state-of-the-art system can range from $5 to $10 million. The Company’s current ability to operate and expand its business operations is dependent upon the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives. Such financing may consist of bank or commercial debt, equity or debit securities or any combination thereof. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in obtaining sufficient capital to upgrade and expand its current operations through additional financing or other transactions if and when required on terms acceptable to the Company. Any substantial alteration of or increase in the Company’s capitalization through the issuance of debt securities may significantly increase the leverage and decrease the financial flexibility of the Company. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the changing market for seismic services, increases in capital and technological requirements, and other matters associated with the Company’s operations, the Company is unable to estimate the amount or terms of any financing that it may need to acquire, upgrade and maintain seismic equipment. If the Company is unable to obtain such financing if and when needed, it may be forced to curtail its business objectives, and to finance its business activities with only such internally generated funds as may then be available. The Company’s seismic acquisition activities are often conducted under extreme weather, in difficult terrain and under other hazardous conditions. As a result, these activities are subject to risks of injury to Company personnel and loss of seismic acquisition equipment. The Company maintains insurance against the destruction of its seismic acquisition equipment and injury to person and property that may result from its operations and considers the amount of such insurance to be adequate. However, the Company is not fully insured for all risks (including business interruption), either because such insurance is not available or because the Company elects not to obtain insurance coverage because of cost. A high level of fixed costs may lead to losses with downturns in revenues. Fixed costs, including costs associated with operating leases, labor costs, depreciation and interest expense account for a substantial percentage of the Company’s costs and expenses. Accordingly, downtime or low productivity resulting from weather interruptions, reduced demand, equipment failures or other causes can result in significant operating losses. The Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to fund additional capital expenditures, debt repayments, related interest payments, and expected future losses in the Company’s data processing business. Capital requirements for the Company’s operations are significant. If the Company is unable to finance these requirements, the Company’s ability to continue its expansion and maintain profitability could be affected. The Company’s processing segment, GDC, continues to incur high fixed costs. The segment continues to be unprofitable and is expected to incur losses for the foreseeable future. The Company may not be able to make GDC a profitable business segment. The Company’s level of indebtedness may adversely affect operations and limit its growth, and the Company may have difficulty making debt service payments on its indebtedness as such payments become due. The Company may not be able to satisfy the financial covenants included in the debt obligations it assumed in connection with the Trace Acquisition. Trace’s bank facility has been in default in the past and the Company cannot guarantee that it will not be in default in the future. The Company relies on a limited number of key suppliers for specific seismic services and equipment. The Company depends on a limited number of third parties to supply it with specific seismic services and equipment. Any interruption to the Company’s supply of seismic services and equipment could affect the 7 Company’s business. In addition, any adverse change in the terms of the Company’s supplier arrangements could affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s seismic acquisition operations are subject to weather conditions which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s seismic acquisition operations could be adversely affected by inclement weather conditions. Under its turnkey contracts, the Company bears substantially all of the risk of loss due to adverse weather conditions. See “Business Segments – Seismic Acquisition Services.” The Company’s operations are subject to government regulation which may adversely affect the Company’s future operations. The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern various aspects of its operations, including the discharge of explosive materials into the environment, requiring removal and clean-up of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and access to private and governmental land to conduct seismic surveys. Although the costs of complying with applicable laws and regulations have historically not been material, the changing nature of such laws and regulations makes it impossible to predict the cost or impact of such laws and regulations on the Company’s future operations. The Company’s common stock is currently traded on the “over the counter” (“OTC”) market, which may involve certain risks not present in all securities. Bulletin Board Securities are over-the-counter securities that are not part of the NASDAQ system. Bulletin Board securities trade in the “over-the-counter” OTC market and are quoted on the OTC system such as, OTC Bulletin Board (OTC BB or the Pink Sheets). Although the NASD oversees the OTCBB, the OTCBB is not part of the NASDAQ market. Market makers of Bulletin Board securities are unable to use electronic means to interact with other dealers to execute trades, which can cause delays in the time it takes to interact with the market place. Risks associated with trading bulletin board securities may include: limited availability of order information and market data, liquidity risks, and communications risks. The Company’s common stock is very illiquid and its price has been and may continue to be volatile in the indefinite future. If the Company does not effectively integrate the Trace Acquisition, the Company’s operating results could be affected. The Company recently completed the acquisition of Trace, which has increased the Company’s number of seismic acquisition crews from three to at least nine. This substantial increase in the Company’s seismic acquisition capacity has strained the Company’s personnel, management and processes. If the Company does not integrate Trace effectively, its profitability and results of operations could be adversely affected, management’s attention could be diverted from other responsibilities and the Company’s future growth could be curtailed. The Company may be unable to retain and attract management and skilled and technically knowledgeable employees. The Company’s continued success depends upon retaining and attracting highly skilled employees. A number of the Company’s employees possess many years of industry experience and are highly skilled and the Company’s inability to retain such individuals could adversely affect the Company’s ability to compete in the seismic service industry. The Company may face significant and adverse competition for such skilled personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 8 