Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are important factors which could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2 of this Form 10-K. We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements including those made in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public. Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no duty to update our Forward-Looking Statements. Our results depend upon the continued vitality of the markets we serve: Economic downturns, and in particular downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care and food processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users who are sensitive to changes in travel and dining activities. The decline in economic activity following the 2008 financial crisis has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect these markets. During such downturns, these end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing products, which has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business. Our results are impacted by general worldwide economic factors: Economic factors such as the worldwide economy, capital flows, interest rates and currency movements including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk have affected our business in the past and may have a material adverse impact on our business in the future. In 2008 and 2009 the global economy experienced considerable disruption and volatility, and the disruption was particularly acute in the global credit markets. While these disruptions generally subsided in 2010 allowing for a modest economic recovery, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the markets in which we operate. As a result, disruption in the global economy could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If we are unsuccessful in executing on key business initiatives, our business could be adversely affected: We continue to make investments and execute business initiatives to develop business systems and optimize our business structure as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our efficiency and returns. In particular, in February 2011 we announced various initiatives to capture financial and operational benefits in our European business, in part, by leveraging our new ERP system, and to improve our competitiveness in the region. If the projects in which we are investing or the initiatives which we are pursuing are not successfully executed, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected. If we are unsuccessful in integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected: As part of our long-term strategy, we seek to acquire complementary businesses. There can be no 14 Table of Contents assurance that we will find attractive acquisition candidates or succeed at effectively managing the integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses. If the underlying business performance of such acquired businesses deteriorates, the expected synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to successfully integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our results can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials: The prices of raw materials used in our business can fluctuate from time to time, and in recent years we have experienced periods of increased raw material costs. Changes in oil or raw material prices, unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes for those raw materials, or the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. In addition, volatility and disruption in economic activity and conditions could disrupt or delay the performance of our suppliers or otherwise impact our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our business. Our growth depends upon our ability to successfully compete with respect to value, innovation and customer support: Our competitive market is made up of numerous global, national, regional and local competitors. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish this or that technological developments by our competitors will not place certain of our products at a competitive disadvantage in the future. In addition, certain of the new products that we have under development will be offered in markets in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in those new markets. If we fail to introduce new technologies on a timely basis, we may lose market share and our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to comply with laws and governmental regulations, and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations: Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the environment, including evolving climate change standards, and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, sale and use of our products as well as to the conduct of our business generally, including employment and labor laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations exposes us to potential financial liability and increases our operating costs. Regulation of our products and operations continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The potential cost to us relating to environmental and product registration laws and regulations is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. Changes to current laws (including tax laws), regulations and policies could impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our profits. We enter into multi-year contracts with customers that can impact our results: Our multi-year contracts with some of our customers include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on our margins and consolidated results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Consolidation of our customers and vendors can affect our results: Customers and vendors in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, healthcare and food processing industries have consolidated in recent years and that trend may continue. This consolidation could have an adverse impact on our ability to retain customers and on our margins and consolidated results of operations. Severe public health outbreaks may adversely impact our business: Our business could be adversely affected by the effect of a public health epidemic. The United States and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, public health outbreaks such as Avian Flu, SARS and H1N1 influenza. A prolonged occurrence of a contagious disease such as these could result in a significant downturn in the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries and also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel further impacting our end markets. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for some of our products and services and adversely affect our business. Extraordinary events may significantly impact our business: The occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters, (e) water shortages or (f) severe weather conditions affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries may have a material adverse effect on our business. Defense of litigation, particularly certain types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement, wage hour and class action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately successful, and if not successful could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. While we have a diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or cash flows for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse effect on our financial position. War (including acts of terrorism or hostilities), natural or manmade disasters, water shortages or severe weather conditions affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries cause a downturn in the business of restaurants, motels and hotels and other of our customers, which in turn can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We depend on key personnel to lead our business: Our continued success will largely depend on our ability to attract and retain a high caliber of talent and on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and certain other key employees. Our operations could be adversely affected if for any reason such officers or key employees did not remain with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 