Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors, which are not all-inclusive, should be carefully considered, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes, in evaluating us. Other factors not specifically discussed in this report may also have a material adverse effect on our results. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to certain risks related to acquisitions, including the PGS Onshore acquisition, and these risks may materially adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. The PGS Onshore acquisition involves the integration of Geokinetics and PGS Onshore, two businesses that have previously operated independently and as competitors. We acquired PGS Onshore with the expectation that, among other things, the PGS Onshore acquisition will enable us to achieve expected cost synergies. Achieving the benefits of the PGS Onshore acquisition will depend in part upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful combination and integration of global business enterprises of the size and scope of Geokinetics and PGS Onshore and the possible resulting diversion of management attention for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that we will meet these challenges and that such diversion will not negatively affect our operations. In addition, delays encountered in the transition process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will actually achieve the anticipated synergies or other benefits from the PGS Onshore acquisition. We plan to continue growing through acquisitions of companies and assets. We must plan and manage our acquisitions effectively to achieve revenue growth and maintain profitability in our evolving market. If we fail to manage current and future acquisitions effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. A lack of continued improvement to our operational, financial, management and legal/compliance information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business could have a material adverse effect on us. 15 Table of Contents Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including but not limited to: •incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; •failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely and retain key personnel; •diversion of management's attention from existing operations or other priorities; and •our inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. Our failure to successfully integrate our acquisitions in a timely and cost effective manner could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. PGS Onshore may have liabilities which are not known to us. As a result of the PGS Onshore acquisition, we have assumed certain liabilities. There may be liabilities that we failed to, or we were unable to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on PGS Onshore. We cannot assure you that rights to indemnification by Petroleum Geo-Services to us will be sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset the possible liabilities associated with the business or assets acquired. Any such liabilities, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we integrate PGS Onshore, we may learn additional information about PGS Onshore that adversely affects us, such as unknown or contingent liabilities and issues relating to compliance with applicable laws. Our business largely depends on the exploration and development activity in the oil and natural gas industry. Our business is substantially dependent upon the condition of the oil and natural gas industry and, in particular, the willingness of E&P companies to make capital expenditures for exploration, development and production operations. The level of capital expenditures generally depends on the prevailing views of future oil and natural gas prices, which are influenced by numerous factors, including but not limited to: •changes in United States and international economic conditions, including the length and severity of the recent recession and the effect of such recession on economic activity; •demand for oil and natural gas; •worldwide political conditions, particularly in significant oil-producing regions such as the Middle East, West Africa and Latin America; •actions taken by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC; •the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves; •the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; •the cost of exploration for, and production and transportation of, oil and natural gas; •the ability of E&P companies to generate funds or otherwise obtain external capital for exploration, development, construction and production operations; •the sale and expiration dates of leases in the United States and overseas; •technological advances affecting energy exploration, production, transportation and consumption; 16 Table of Contents •weather conditions; •environmental or other government regulations both domestic and foreign; •domestic and foreign tax policies; and •the pace adopted by foreign governments for the exploration, development and production of their oil and gas reserves. Oil and natural gas prices had been at historically high levels until experiencing a sharp decline during the second half of 2008 and continuing through 2009, particularly for natural gas prices. The natural gas market is a key market for the Company's North American seismic data acquisition business and the multi-client data library it has acquired from PGS Onshore. A worldwide decrease in hydrocarbon demand and a decline in commodity prices have caused many E&P companies to curtail planned capital spending. Historically, demand for our services has been sensitive to the level of exploration spending by oil and gas companies. A sustained period of low drilling and production activity, low commodity prices or reductions in industry budgets could reduce demand for our services and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Economic conditions could negatively affect our business. Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and gas industry. Recent disruptions in the credit markets and concerns about global recession have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets. Future market deterioration could also jeopardize the performance of counterparty obligations, including those of our insurers, suppliers, customers and financial institutions. Although we monitor the creditworthiness of our counterparties, the future disruptions could lead to sudden changes in a counterparty's liquidity. If one of our counterparties fails to perform, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses and our liquidity could be negatively impacted. We operate under hazardous conditions that subject us and our employees to risk of damage to property or personal injury and limitations on its insurance coverage may expose us to potentially significant liability costs. Our activities are often conducted in dangerous environments and include hazardous conditions, including the detonation of dynamite. Operating in such environments and under such conditions carries with it inherent risks, such as loss of human life or equipment, as well as the risk of downtime or reduced productivity resulting from equipment failures caused by an adverse operating environment. For example, in 2009 two employees of our subcontractors and one our employees suffered fatal injuries. Although we maintain what we believe is prudent insurance protection, we can make no assurances that our insurance will be sufficient or adequate to cover all losses or liabilities or that insurance will continue to be available to us or available to us on acceptable terms. A successful claim for which we are not fully insured, or which exceeds the policy limits of our applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Moreover, we do not carry business interruption insurance with respect to our operations. Historically, we have been dependent on a few customers operating in a single industry; the loss of one or more customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our customers are engaged in the oil and natural gas drilling business throughout the world. Historically, we have been dependent upon a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our top ten customers collectively represented approximately 70%, 47% and 55% of total revenues, respectively. Our three largest customers in 2009, 17 Table of Contents 2008 and 2007 accounted for 45%, 19% and 27% of total revenues, respectively. This concentration of customers may increase our overall exposure to credit risk, and customers will likely be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. If any of these significant clients were to terminate their contracts or fail to contract for our services in the future because they are acquired, alter their exploration or development strategy, or for any other reason, our results of operations could be affected. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data for multi-client surveys and for our seismic data library without knowing precisely how much of this seismic data we will be able to sell or when and at what price we will be able to sell such data. Multi-client surveys and the resulting seismic data library are an increasingly important part of our business and our future investments. We invest significant amounts of money in acquiring and processing seismic data that we either exclusively or partially own. By making such investments, we are exposed to the following risks: •We may not fully recover our costs of acquiring, processing and interpreting seismic data through future sales. The amounts of these data sales are uncertain and depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. •The timing of these sales is unpredictable and can vary greatly from period to period. The costs of each survey are capitalized and then amortized as a percentage of sales and/or over the expected useful life of the data. This amortization will affect our earnings and when combined with the sporadic nature of sales, will result in increased earnings volatility. •Regulatory changes that affect companies' ability to drill, either generally or in a specific location where we have acquired seismic data, could materially adversely affect the value of the seismic data contained in our library. Technology changes could also make existing data sets obsolete. Additionally, each of our individual surveys has a limited book life based on its location and oil and gas companies' interest in prospecting for reserves in such location, so a particular survey may be subject to a significant decline in value beyond our initial estimates. •The value of our multi-client data could be significantly adversely affected if any material adverse change occurs in the general prospects for oil and gas exploration, development and production activities. •The cost estimates upon which we base our pre-commitments of funding could be wrong. The result could be losses that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These pre-commitments of funding are subject to the creditworthiness of our clients. In the event that a client refuses or is unable to pay its commitment, we could lose a material amount of money. Any reduction in the market value of such data will require us to write down its recorded value, which could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations. The seismic data acquisition services industry is capital intensive and sources of cash to finance our capital expenditures may not always be available. If financing is not available, our results of operations will be negatively affected. Seismic data acquisition equipment is continually being improved with new technology. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to invest additional capital to maintain, upgrade and expand its seismic data acquisition capabilities. Seismic data acquisition equipment is expensive and our ability to operate and expand our business operations is dependent upon the availability of internally generated cash flow and financing alternatives. Such financing may consist of bank or commercial debt, equity or debt securities or any combination thereof. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in 18 Table of Contents obtaining sufficient capital to upgrade and expand our current operations through cash from operations or additional financing or other transactions if and when required on terms acceptable to us. Due to the uncertainties surrounding the changing market for seismic services, increases in capital and technological requirements, and other matters associated with our operations, we are unable to estimate the amount or terms of any financing that it may need to acquire, upgrade and maintain seismic equipment. If we are unable to obtain such financing, if and when needed, we may be forced to curtail our business objectives, and to finance our business activities with only such internally generated funds as may then be available. Our high level of fixed costs can leave us vulnerable to downturns in revenues, which can result in losses. We are subject to high fixed costs which primarily consist of depreciation, maintenance expenses associated with our seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment and certain crew costs. Extended periods of significant downtime or low productivity caused by reduced demand, weather interruptions, equipment failures, permit delays or other causes could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations because we will not be able to reduce our fixed costs as fast as revenues decline. We face intense competition in our business that could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. Competition among seismic contractors historically has been, and likely will continue to be, intense. Competitive factors have in recent years included price, crew experience, equipment availability, technological expertise and reputation for quality and dependability. We also face increasing competition from nationally-owned companies in various international jurisdictions that operate under less significant financial constraints than those we experience. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources, more clients, greater market recognition and more established relationships and alliances in the industry than we do. Additionally, the seismic data acquisition services business is extremely price competitive and has a history of protracted periods of months or years where seismic contractors under financial duress bid jobs below cost and therefore adversely impact industry pricing. Competition from these and other competitors could result in downward pricing pressure and the loss of market share. We rely on a limited number of key suppliers for specific seismic services and equipment. We depend on a limited number of third parties to supply us with specific seismic services and equipment. From time to time, increased demand for seismic data acquisition services has decreased the available supply of new seismic equipment, resulting in extended delivery dates on orders. Any delay in obtaining equipment could delay our implementation of additional crews and restrict the productivity of its existing crews, adversely affecting our business and results of operations. In addition, any adverse change in the terms of our supplier arrangements could affect our results of operations. Revenue derived from our projects may not be sufficient to cover our costs of completing those projects. As a result, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our revenue is determined, in part, by the price we receive for our services, the productivity of our crew and the accuracy of our cost estimates. Our crew's productivity is partly a function of external factors, such as weather and third party delays, over which we have no control. In addition, cost estimates for our projects may be inadequate due to unknown factors associated with the work to be performed and market conditions, resulting in cost over-runs. If our crew encounters operational difficulties or delays, or if we have not correctly priced our services, our results of operation may vary, and in some cases, may be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Many of our projects are performed on a turnkey basis where a defined amount and scope of work is provided by us for a fixed price and extra work, which is subject to client approval, is billed separately. The revenue, cost and gross profit realized on a turnkey contract can vary from our estimated amount because of changes in job conditions, variations in labor and equipment productivity from the original estimates, and the performance of subcontractors. Turnkey contracts may also cause us to bear substantially all of the risks of business interruption caused by weather delays and other hazards. These variations, delays and risks inherent in billing clients at a fixed price may result in us experiencing reduced profitability or losses on projects. Our clients could delay, reduce or cancel their commitments or service contracts with us on short notice, which may lead to lower than expected demand and revenues. Our backlog consists of written orders or commitments for our services that we believe to be firm. At December 31, 2009, our backlog for our seismic data acquisition and seismic data processing and interpretation segments was approximately $190.2 million. Backlog levels vary during the year depending on the timing of the completion of certain projects and when new projects are awarded and contracts are signed. Because of potential changes in the scope or schedule of our clients' projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if our backlog will be realized. Even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that the client may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are cancelable by the client. Material delays, payment defaults or cancellations would reduce the amount of backlog currently reported, and, consequently, could inhibit the conversion of that backlog into revenue which may materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our agreements with our clients may not adequately protect us from unforeseen events or address all issues that could arise with our clients. The occurrence of unforeseen events, or disputes with clients not adequately addressed in the contracts could result in increased liability, costs and expenses associated with any given project. We enter into master service agreements with many of our clients which allocate certain operational risks. For example, we seek to minimize the risk of delays through the inclusion of "standby rate" provisions which provide for payment to us of a reduced rate for a limited amount of time if the weather conditions or certain other factors outside of our control prevent us from recording data. Despite the inclusion of risk allocation provisions in our agreements, our operations may be affected by a number of events that are unforeseen or not within our control. We cannot assure you that our agreements will adequately protect us from each possible event. If an event occurs which we have not contemplated or otherwise addressed in our agreement, we, and not our client, will likely bear the increased cost or liability. To the extent our agreements do not adequately address these and other issues, or we are not able to successfully resolve resulting disputes, we may incur increased liability, costs and expenses. We may be held liable for the actions of our subcontractors. We often work as the general contractor on seismic data acquisition surveys and consequently engage a number of subcontractors to perform services and provide products. While we obtain contractual indemnification and insurance covering the acts of these subcontractors, and require the subcontractors to obtain insurance for our benefit, there can be no assurance we will not be held liable for the actions of these subcontractors. In addition, subcontractors may cause damage or injury to our personnel and property that is not fully covered by insurance. 20 Table of Contents Our results of operations can be significantly affected by currency fluctuations. Because we conduct a substantial amount of our operations internationally, we are subject to risks relating to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar against such other currencies may, in future periods, have a significant effect upon our results of operations. While we attempt to reduce the risks associated with such exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot assure you that we will be effective in doing so or that fluctuations in the value of the currencies in which we operate will not materially affect our results of operations in the future. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and our exposure to such risks will increase as we expand our international operations. Over the past several years, our operations have become increasingly international. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 83%, 62%, and 52%, respectively, of our actual revenues from our seismic data acquisition services segment were derived outside of the U.S. and Canada. The PGS Onshore acquisition is expected to further increase our international operations. Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks inherent in foreign operations, including but not limited to: •government instability, which can cause investment in capital projects by our potential clients to be withdrawn or delayed, reducing or eliminating the viability of some markets for our services; •potential expropriation, seizure, nationalization or detention of assets; •difficulty in repatriating foreign currency received in excess of local currency requirements; •civil uprisings, riots and war, which can make it unsafe to continue operations, adversely affect both budgets and schedules and expose us to losses; •availability of suitable personnel and equipment, which can be affected by government policy, or changes in policy, which limit the importation of qualified crewmembers or specialized equipment in areas where local resources are insufficient; •decrees, laws, regulations, interpretation and court decisions under legal systems, which are not always fully developed and which may be retroactively applied and cause us to incur unanticipated and/or unrecoverable costs as well as delays which may result in real or opportunity costs; and •terrorist attacks, including kidnappings and assassinations of our personnel. In addition, laws and policies of the United States affecting foreign trade and taxation may also adversely affect our international operations. As a company subject to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"), our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with U.S. laws could restrict our ability to do business in foreign markets relative to our competitors who are not subject to U.S. law. Any determination that we or our foreign agents or joint venture partners have violated the FCPA, may adversely affect our business and operations. We and our local partners operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. law and regulations prohibit us from using. As a U.S. corporation, the Company is subject to the regulations imposed by the FCPA, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries 21 Table of Contents from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. In particular, we may be held liable for actions taken by our strategic or local partners even though our partners are not subject to the FCPA. Any such violations could result in substantial civil and/or criminal penalties and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our ability to continue to work in such foreign markets could be adversely affected if we were found to have violated certain U.S. laws, including the FCPA. We are subject to compliance with stringent environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to stringent federal, provincial, state and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may impose numerous obligations that are applicable to our operations including: •the acquisition of permits before commencing regulated activities; and •the limitation or prohibition of seismic activities in environmentally sensitive or protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas. Numerous governmental authorities, such as the Federal Environmental Protection Agency and analogous state agencies in the United States and governmental bodies with control over environmental matters in foreign jurisdictions, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and any permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. There is inherent risk of incurring significant environmental costs and liabilities in our operations due to our controlled storage, use and disposal of explosives. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of explosives comply with the standards prescribed by applicable laws and regulations, the risk of accidental injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result or we could be penalized with fines, and any liability could exceed the limits of or fall outside our insurance coverage. Current or future distressed financial conditions of customers could have an adverse impact on us in the event these customers are unable to pay us for the services we provide. Some of our customers are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness. Although we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial conditions, we generally require no collateral from our customers. We cannot provide assurance that one or more of its financially distressed customers will not default on their obligations to us or that such a default or defaults will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations, or future cash flows. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of one or more of our customers, or some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint, might make it unlikely that we would be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed by the distressed entity or entities. In addition, such events might force such customers to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our seismic data acquisition services revenues are subject to seasonal conditions and customers' budgeting cycles. Our seismic data acquisition services are performed outdoors and are therefore subject to seasonality. Shorter winter days and adverse weather negatively impact our ability to provide services in 22 Table of Contents certain regions. Additionally, we have limited control over the timing of our international operations due to the extensive planning and preparation required to perform a seismic survey. Our international operations have also been affected historically by the budgeting cycle of our customers, at times resulting in higher activity levels early in the year when available exploration budgets are high, and late in the year when our customers are trying to utilize their remaining budgets. We may be unable to retain and attract management and skilled and technically knowledgeable employees. Our continued success depends upon retaining and attracting highly skilled employees. A number of our employees possess many years of industry experience and are highly skilled and our inability to retain such individuals could adversely affect our ability to compete in the seismic service industry. We may face significant competition for such skilled personnel, particularly during periods of increased demand for seismic services. Although we utilize employment agreements, stock-based compensation and other incentives to retain certain of our key employees, there is no guarantee that we will be able to retain these personnel. Our operating results from seismic data acquisition services can be significantly impacted from quarter to quarter due to a change in the timing of a few large jobs occurring at any one time. We have the capacity to field up to 38 seismic data acquisition crews after the PGS acquisition. However, in any given period, we could have idle crews which result in a significant portion of its revenues, cash flows and earnings coming from a relatively small number of crews. Additionally, due to location, service line or particular job, some of our individual crews may achieve results that are a significant percentage of consolidated operating results. Should one or more of these crews experience significant changes in timing, our financial results are subject to significant variations from period to period. Factors that may result in these changes in timing include, but are not limited to, weather, permits, customer requirements and political unrest. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by asset impairments. We periodically review our portfolio of equipment and intangible assets, including our multi-client data library, for impairment. If we expect significant sustained decreases in oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write down the value of our assets if the future cash flows anticipated to be generated from the related assets falls below net book value. The recent decline in oil and natural gas prices, if sustained, could result in future impairments. If we are forced to write down the value of our goodwill, other intangible assets or equipment, these non-cash asset impairments could negatively affect our results of operations in the period in which they are recorded. See discussion of "Impairment of Long-Lived Assets" included in "Critical Accounting Policies." The cyclical nature of, or a prolonged downturn in, our industry, could affect the carrying value of our goodwill or other long-lived assets and negatively impact our earnings. As of December 31, 2009, we had $73.4 million of goodwill, or 9.4% of total assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some of our businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and measurable intangible net assets of those businesses at the time of acquisition. We are required to annually assess whether the carrying value of our goodwill has been impaired. This assessment includes many management assumptions including, but not limited to, business forecasts, risk premiums, cost of capital and market factors. Should any one or combination of these factors change, it could negatively impact our future assessments of the carrying values of these assets. If management determines that the carrying value of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable, our goodwill will be reduced which will adversely affect our earnings. 23 Table of Contents Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We have a significant amount of debt and may incur substantial additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of $397.0 million, net of discount. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt or sufficient earnings to cover fixed charges in future years. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks for us could intensify. Our substantial debt could have important consequences. In particular, it could: •increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which we operate; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to respond to changes in market conditions or pursue business opportunities. Our debt agreements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: •incur or guarantee additional debt; •pay dividends; •repay subordinated debt prior to its maturity; •grant additional liens on our assets; •enter into transactions with our affiliates; •repurchase stock; •make certain investments or acquisitions of substantially all or a portion of another entity's business assets; and •merge with another entity or dispose of our assets. In addition, our debt agreements require us to maintain certain financial ratios and tests. The requirement that we comply with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures or withstand a continuing or future downturn in our business. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond the Company's control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests. In the event of a default under these 24 Table of Contents agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, it might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. Additionally, we may not be able to amend its debt agreements or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms. To service our indebtedness, we require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures depends in part on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or debt restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold or that, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales would be favorable to us or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced during 2008 and 2009, could adversely affect our ability to meet our liquidity needs or to refinance our indebtedness, including our ability to draw on our existing credit facilities or enter into new credit facilities. Banks that are party to our existing credit facilities may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. There are inherent limitations in all control systems and failure of our controls and procedures to detect error or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all possible error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of our controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, will be detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons or by collusion of two or more persons. The design of any system of controls is based in part upon the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving our intended goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur without detection. 25 Table of Contents We have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, which could affect our ability to ensure timely and reliable financial reports and the ability of our auditors to attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls. During management's review of our internal controls as of December 31, 2009, control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses related to the following items were identified: Financial Statement Close Process: During 2009, the Company dedicated significant resources implementing a new management information system and new business processes and controls around domestic and international operations. Due to the demands created by this implementation, the increasing complexity of the Company's international operations and the acquisition and related financing transactions at the end of the year, a material weakness was identified in the Company's financial statement close process, including insufficient controls over analyzing and reconciling accounts, maintaining appropriate support and analyses of certain non-routine accruals, and properly assessing the accounting and reporting implications related to new contractual agreements and certain other accounting matters. Taxes Related to International Operations: Another material weakness was identified by management related to accounting for income taxes associated with the Company's international operations, including insufficient controls and training over the proper identification and application of the relevant tax rules, which affected the Company's calculation of the tax provision of the Company's international operations. The Company's lack of resources, in terms of size, technical expertise and institutional knowledge to address certain financial and tax aspects of its multi-national operations, was identified as the underlying cause of these material weaknesses. These material weaknesses resulted in the Company recording a number of post-closing adjustments to the Company's 2009 consolidated financial statements. The adjustments primarily affected non-routine accruals, deferred cost accounts, deferred taxes and the tax provision related to the Company's international operations, including, as applicable, the corresponding income statement accounts. Based on management's evaluation, because of the material weaknesses described above, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2009. Our independent registered public accounting firm, UHY LLP, has audited management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, and their report appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we have taken certain actions to address the deficiencies identified, additional measures will be necessary and these measures, along with other measures we expect to take to improve our internal controls over financial reporting, may not be sufficient to address the deficiencies identified or ensure that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we are unable to provide reliable and timely financial external reports, our business and prospects could suffer material adverse effects. In addition, we may in the future identify further material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Climate Change Legislation or Regulations could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and gas our clients intend to produce. More stringent laws relating to climate change and greenhouse gases ("GHGs") may be adopted in the future and could reduce the demand for our services. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the "American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009," or "ACESA," which would establish an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide and methane. ACESA would require a 17% reduction in greenhouse gas 26 Table of Contents emissions from 2005 levels by 2020 and just over an 80% reduction of such emissions by 2050. Under this legislation, the EPA would issue a capped and steadily declining number of tradable emissions allowances authorizing emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. These reductions would be expected to cause the cost of allowances to escalate significantly over time. The net effect of ACESA will be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for restricting domestic greenhouse gas emissions and the Obama Administration has indicated its support for legislation to reduce greenhouse emissions through an emission allowance system. On December 15, 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other "greenhouse gases" present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Accordingly, the EPA has proposed two sets of regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, on October 30, 2009, the EPA published a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. Because of the lack of any comprehensive legislative program addressing GHGs, there is a great deal of uncertainty as to how and when federal regulation of GHGs might take place. In addition to possible federal regulation, a number of states, individually and regionally, also are considering or have implemented GHG regulatory programs. These potential regional and state initiatives may result in so-called cap-and-trade programs, under which overall GHG emissions are limited and GHG emissions are then allocated and sold, and possibly other regulatory requirements, that could result in our incurring material expenses to comply, e.g., by being required to purchase or to surrender allowances for GHGs resulting from our operations. The federal, regional and local regulatory initiatives also could adversely affect the marketability of the oil and natural gas that our clients produce. The impact of such future programs cannot be predicted, but we do not expect our operations to be affected any differently than other similarly situated domestic competitors. Significant physical effects of climatic change have the potential to damage our facilities, disrupt our production activities and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In an interpretative guidance on climate change disclosures, the SEC indicates that climate change could have an effect on the severity of weather (including hurricanes and floods), sea levels, the arability of farmland, and water availability and quality. If such effects were to occur, our seismic acquisition operations have the potential to be adversely affected. Potential adverse effects could include damages to our facilities from powerful winds or rising waters in low-lying areas, disruption of our production activities either because of climate-related damages to our facilities in our costs of operation potentially arising from such climatic effects, less efficient or non-routine operating practices necessitated by climate effects or increased costs for insurance coverages in the aftermath of such effects. Significant physical effects of climate change could also have an indirect affect on our financing and operations by disrupting the transportation or process-related services provided by midstream companies, service companies or suppliers with whom we have a business relationship. We may not be able to recover through insurance some or any of the damages, losses or costs that may result from potential physical effects of climate change. 27 Table of Contents Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives are currently considering bills entitled, the "Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act," or the "FRAC Act," that would amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or the "SDWA," to repeal an exemption from regulation for hydraulic fracturing. If enacted, the FRAC Act would amend the definition of "underground injection" in the SDWA to encompass hydraulic fracturing activities. If enacted, such a provision could require hydraulic fracturing operations to meet permitting and financial assurance requirements, adhere to certain construction specifications, fulfill monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping obligations, and meet plugging and abandonment requirements. The FRAC Act also proposes to require the reporting and public disclosure of chemicals used in the fracturing process, which could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. The adoption of any future federal or state laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or otherwise limiting, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas wells. A significant portion of our anticipated future business involves seismic acquisition projects of various shale plays. Shale gas cannot be economically produced without extensive fracing. In the event this legislation is enacted, demand for our seismic acquisition services may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 