Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The following represent Handleman’s most significant risk factors. These risks, and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered. If any of the risks occur, Handleman Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Indebtedness and Compliance with Debt Covenants – As of April 28, 2007, Handleman Company had $106.9 million of outstanding indebtedness, all of which was classified as a current liability. On April 30, 2007, subsequent to Handleman’s fiscal year end, Handleman re-financed the indebtedness and entered into certain new credit agreements that contain several operating and financial covenants, including weekly borrowing base certifications, as well as restrictions on distributions and dividends, acquisitions and investments, indebtedness, prepayments, liens and affiliate transactions, capital structure and business, guaranteed indebtedness and asset sales. The level of indebtedness and the associated covenants could have several effects on the Company’s future operations including, but not limited to: • making it difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations arising from, or related to, the indebtedness; • limiting its ability to obtain necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions or general corporate operating purposes; • reducing cash available for other purposes as a result of its obligation to allocate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest on its debt; • limiting its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business; • reducing funds available for use in its operations; • placing it at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors who are less leveraged or have better access to capital resources; and • exposing it to increased vulnerability to adverse economic and music industry conditions, downturns in its business, and/or increased interest rates. Handleman’s ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness is dependent upon its future performance. Accordingly, the Company has prepared a forecast for fiscal 2008 that is based on current expectations regarding its current business and associated operating expense and capital spending levels. If the Company’s actual results differ materially from its expectations for fiscal 2008, Handleman’s liquidity may be adversely impacted. If this were to occur, additional steps would be necessary to adjust its operating costs and capital expenditures to support its business. Handleman cannot make any assurances that it can meet the requirements of its existing debt arrangements. If Handleman fails to comply with the covenants and requirements of its credit agreements, then it may result in Handleman being in default, with respect to the related debt, and could lead to acceleration of that debt or any instruments evidencing indebtedness that contain cross-acceleration and cross-default provisions. In such case, Handleman cannot provide any assurance that it would be able to refinance or otherwise repay that indebtedness. Customer Concentration – Handleman Company generally does not have formal contracts with its customers, and either party may discontinue such relationships any time without penalty. The discontinuance of, or a significant unfavorable change in, the relationship with either of the two largest customers would have a materially adverse effect upon the Company’s future sales and earnings. The Company’s two largest customers represented approximately 77% of the Company’s consolidated revenues during fiscal 2007. As indicated on page 2, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.’s subsidiary, ASDA, and the Company have decided not to continue the Company’s music supply arrangement in the United Kingdom. In addition, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and other retailers have reduced retail store space dedicated to music product from time to time in the past, and may again in the future. The Company must be cognizant of the possibility of impacting its existing customer’s business while executing its defined growth strategy of expanding and diversifying its customer base. Gross Margin Compression – The Company’s gross margin as a percentage of revenues has decreased in recent years as a greater proportion of the Company’s revenues have been in the UK and Crave, which carry lower gross margins as a percentage of revenues than the Company’s consolidated rate. Additionally, increased revenues attributable to customer programs and promotions, and less than full category management services, which carry lower gross margins as a percentage of revenues than full category management services, have negatively impacted the Company’s gross margin. 9 Table of Contents Product Line Concentration – The music industry, in which Handleman predominately operates, can experience downward trends due to a lack of successful new releases and other external factors. In addition, physical music product sales have been negatively impacted by the growth in consumption of digital music, acquired from both legal and illegal channels. Expected ongoing reductions in music product sales will continue to have an adverse effect on the Company’s future sales and earnings. Competition – The Company’s business is highly competitive as to both price and alternative supply arrangements. In addition to competition among the Company’s customers, as well as with other retailers, the Company’s customers compete with alternative sources from which consumers could acquire the same product, such as (1) internet direct sales, including direct-to-home shipment and direct downloading through a consumer’s home computer, (2) downloading through cellular telephones, (3) music product piracy via the internet, (4) specialty retail outlets, (5) electronic specialty stores, and (6) record clubs. The market is continuously introducing new methods of in-home delivery of entertainment software products. The Company also competes directly for sales to its customers with (1) manufacturers that bypass wholesalers and sell directly to retailers, (2) independent distributors, and (3) other category managers. In addition, some large retailers are “vertically integrated” so as to provide their own category management and/or in-store merchandising. Some of these companies, however, also purchase from independent category managers. Additional competitors and competitive methods could materially affect Handleman Company’s business. In recent years, the trend of music product is shifting from sales of physical product to that of digital distribution in its various forms. Inventory Management – As a category manager and distributor of pre-recorded music, the Company manages the selection, delivery, retail ticketing and return of music product for its customers. The Company relies on its proprietary systems to manage store inventory levels to ensure the right product is in the right customer stores at the right time for consumers to purchase. As a result, the Company must also manage its warehouse inventory levels and assortment by buying smarter from its vendors and managing customer returns in order to avoid the risk of obsolescence and excess inventory levels. Reliance on Third-Party Carriers – The Company relies on third-party carriers for delivery of product from its distribution centers to its customers’ retail store locations. An interruption in service may result in a temporary delay in product shipments. Business Continuity Program – As with any company, Handleman has risk associated with potential disasters that may result in the interruption of service or the discontinuance of operations. Such threats could be natural (i.e. flooding, fire, tornado, hurricane, epidemic), technical (i.e. power failure, HVAC failure, IT hardware/software failure, communication failure) or human (i.e. robbery, terrorism, chemical spill, sabotage, vehicle crashes, work stoppage). To prepare for potential disruptions, Handleman Company has a dedicated team of employees who have developed and implemented Business Continuity Programs, including Emergency Response & Safety Plans and Incident (Crisis) Management Plans for its major facilities. In addition, the Company has implemented an Information Technology Disaster Recovery strategy for its major production environment. Business Unit Recovery Plans have been developed for its major facilities, including alternate recovery locations and alternate Information Technology infra-structures. Although Handleman tests these plans annually, future disasters could adversely affect the Company’s business. Effective Execution of the Company’s Business Growth Strategy – The Company’s growth strategy is based on leveraging its core competencies of intellectual services, field services and logistic services. The Company has identified three growth platforms – expanding its core category management and distribution business model with existing and new customers; extending its core competencies within adjacent categories, markets and channels; and identifying strategic transactions aligned with its core competencies. The Company’s future operating results will depend, among other things, on its success in implementing its strategic growth plan, including successfully integrating its recent acquisitions. 10 Table of Contents Cost Reduction Initiative – The Company has implemented an initiative to realign its cost structure to reduce selling, general and administrative expenses by $20 million annually, prior to any one-time implementation costs. The Company’s future operating results will depend, among other things, on its success in implementing its cost reduction initiatives. Information Systems – The Company relies heavily on information systems for day-to-day operations, as well as providing a competitive advantage for its intellectual services core competency. The Company has elected to outsource a portion of application development and technology support to a third party. The failure of information systems to perform as designed, or an interruption of these information systems for a significant period of time could disrupt the Company’s business and adversely affect sales and profitability. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Handleman Company does not have any unresolved staff comments to report. 