Item 1A. RISK FACTORS During fiscal 2006, the Company completed an enterprise risk management initiative to identify the Company’s major risks and implemented procedures to monitor and control such exposures. Identified risks were categorized into three areas – strategic, financial/compliance and operational, and were ranked based on the likelihood of occurrence and the impact to the business should the risk occur. These risks, and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, should be carefully considered. If any of the risks occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. The following represent Handleman’s most significant risk factors: Customer Concentration – Handleman Company generally does not have contracts with its customers, and such relationships may be changed or discontinued at any time by the customers or the Company without penalty. The discontinuance of, or a significant unfavorable change in, the relationship with either of the Company’s two largest customers would have a materially adverse effect upon the Company’s future sales and earnings. The Company’s two largest customers represented approximately 83% of the Company’s consolidated revenues during fiscal 2006. In addition, the Company must be cognizant of the possibility of impacting its existing customer’s business while executing the Company’s defined growth strategy of expanding and diversifying its customer base. Product Line Concentration – The music industry, in which the Company predominately operates, can experience significant downward trends due to a lack of successful new releases. In addition, physical music product sales have been eroded by the growth in consumption of digital music, acquired from both legal and illegal channels. Future reductions in music product sales would have an adverse effect on the Company’s future sales and earnings. Gross Margin Compression – The Company’s gross margin as a percentage of revenues has decreased in recent years as a greater proportion of the Company’s revenues have been in the UK, which carry a lower gross margin as a percentage of revenues than the Company’s consolidated rate. Additionally, increased revenues attributable to less than full category management services, which carry a lower gross margin percentage of revenues than full category management services, have negatively impacted the Company’s gross margin. Inventory Management – As a category manager and distributor of pre-recorded music, the Company manages the selection, delivery, retail ticketing and return of music product for its customers. The Company relies on its proprietary systems to manage store inventory levels to ensure the right product is in the right customer stores at the right time for consumers to purchase. As a result, the Company must also manage its warehouse inventory levels and assortment by buying smarter from its vendors and managing customer returns in order to avoid the risk of obsolescence and excess inventory levels. Reliance on Third-Party Carriers – The Company relies on third-party carriers for delivery of product from its distribution centers to its customers’ retail store locations. An interruption in service may result in a temporary delay in product shipments. Compliance with Debt Covenants – The Company has an unsecured line of credit agreement with a consortium of banks. Management relies on the revolving credit agreement, along with cash provided from operations, to provide sufficient liquidity to finance acquisitions, fund the Company’s day-to-day operations, pay cash dividends and repurchase common stock. This agreement contains certain restrictions and covenants, relating to, among others, minimum debt service ratio, maximum leverage ratio and minimum consolidated tangible net worth. Given the seasonal nature of the Company’s business and reliance on forecasted operating results and forecasted cash balances, the Company must continually monitor these covenants to ensure compliance. Failure to satisfy these bank covenants may result in defaulting on its loan agreement. 9 Business Continuity Program – As with any company, Handleman has risk associated with potential disasters that may result in the interruption of service or the discontinuance of operations. Such threats could be natural (i.e. flooding, fire, tornado, hurricane, epidemic), technical (i.e. power failure, HVAC failure, IT hardware/software failure, communication failure) or human (i.e. robbery, terrorism, chemical spill, sabotage, vehicle crashes, work stoppage). To prepare for potential disruptions, Handleman Company has a dedicated team of employees who have developed and implemented Business Continuity Programs, including Emergency Response & Safety Plans and Incident (Crisis) Management Plans for its major facilities. In addition, the Company has implemented an Information Technology Disaster Recovery strategy for its major production environment. The Company will continue to analyze the recovery plans for its major facilities. Additionally, the Company is in the process of defining alternate recovery facilities for its corporate office, alternate shipping strategies for its distribution centers and strategies for its secondary information technology infrastructure. Nevertheless, future disasters could adversely affect the Company’s business. Foreign Exchange – The UK and Canadian operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates fluctuate, operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In addition, the Company is subject to gains and losses on foreign currency transactions, which could vary based on fluctuations in exchange rates and the timing of the transactions and their settlement. Effective Execution of the Company’s Business Growth Strategy – The Company’s growth strategy is based on leveraging its core competencies of intellectual services, field services and logistic services. The Company has identified three growth platforms—expanding its core category management and distribution business model with existing and new customers; extending its core competencies within adjacent categories, markets and channels; and identifying strategic transactions aligned with its core competencies. The Company’s future operating results will depend, among other things, on its success in implementing its strategic growth plan, including successfully integrating its recent acquisitions. Information Systems – The Company relies heavily on information systems for day-to-day operations, as well as providing a competitive advantage for its intellectual services core competency. The Company has elected to outsource a portion of application development and technology support to a third party. The failure of information systems to perform as designed, or an interruption of these information systems for a significant period of time could disrupt the Company’s business and adversely affect sales and profitability. Competition – The Company’s business is highly competitive as to both price and alternative supply arrangements. In addition to competition among the Company’s customers, the Company’s customers compete with alternative sources from which consumers could acquire the same product, such as (1) specialty retail outlets, (2) record clubs, (3) internet direct sales, including direct to home shipment and direct downloading through a consumer’s home computer, and (4) music product piracy via the internet. Additionally, new methods of in-home delivery of entertainment software products are continually being introduced. The Company also competes directly for sales to its customers with (1) manufacturers that bypass wholesalers and sell directly to retailers, (2) independent distributors, and (3) other category managers. In addition, some large retailers are “vertically integrated” so as to provide their own category management and/or in-store merchandising. Some of these companies, however, also purchase from independent category managers. Increases in competition could materially affect the Company’s business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved staff comments to report. 