Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 – The discussion of the Company’s future plans contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There are risks associated with forward looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “possible,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “forecast” and similar words or expressions. Do not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since actual results may vary significantly from forward-looking statements. Handleman cannot assure that it will have adequate cash to complete an orderly liquidation of the Company. The Company believes that cash provided from operations and asset sales will be sufficient to execute its plan of liquidation provided that the Company is able to sell its corporate office building in Troy, Michigan at a favorable selling price and within a reasonable period of time and the amount at which the Company ultimately settles its unsecured U.S. pension liability. The Company does not believe, based upon its value of net assets as of May 2, 2009, that it will have sufficient funds to settle its liabilities and obligations with unsecured creditors in full. If assets are insufficient to settle its liabilities in full, creditors will be paid according to a defined priority and pro rata within each priority category. These assumptions are subject to change based upon the timing of and proceeds from asset sales, and the ultimate settlement of liabilities, particularly its pension plan obligations. Handleman cannot assure the successful sale of its remaining asset or that the sale of this asset will be at anticipated terms. While Handleman is hopeful that it will be able to successfully sell its remaining asset, its corporate office building, it cannot make any assurances that there will be a reasonable demand for this asset at what Handleman believes is a fair market value. Further, Handleman faces risk related to the significant pressures on the financial market. If these current conditions continue, a potential investor’s ability to secure funding to purchase assets may be constrained. This may limit the number of investors expressing an interest in purchasing Handleman’s corporate building and/or the price they are willing to pay. Handleman is hopeful that sales of its remaining asset will be made on terms that are approved by the Board of Directors and may be conducted by competitive bidding, public sales or privately negotiated sales. The price at which the Company may be able to sell this asset will depend largely on factors beyond the Company’s control, including, without limitation, the condition of financial markets, the availability of financing to prospective purchasers of the assets, public market perceptions and limitations on transferability of certain assets. 4 Table of Contents Handleman cannot assure that there will not be any unanticipated complications in the transitions of its businesses. Handleman cannot assure that there will not be unanticipated complications related to the transition of its divested businesses. Handleman may be subject to claims filed by customers, Anderson, Tesco, Fillpoint and/or Mosaic related to the sale of those businesses, settling of accounts receivable disputes regarding customer product returns, accounts payable disputes regarding vendor claims or other related party claims. These risks include potential accounts receivable disputes with Handleman’s former customers, accounts payable disputes with vendors and disputes with the music providers to which Handleman’s former customers were transitioned. The Company’s decision to wind down all business operations has resulted in the termination of employee relationships. Handleman is, therefore, subject to risk of employee lawsuits. While Handleman has made every effort to comply with laws related to these situations, there is a risk that an employee might assert that Handleman terminated his/her relationship in violation of certain laws, and that Handleman is required to pay the employee damages related to the employment termination. Even if Handleman were to prevail in such matters, Handleman would have to defend itself in matters related to employee rights and benefits. Handleman must resolve matters related to its U.S. and Canadian pension plans. Handleman Company has certain risks related to its pension plans, which are defined benefit pension plans. Handleman’s pension plans are at risk related to the current economic downturn. To the extent that Handleman’s pension plans have investments in volatile instruments, Handleman is at risk that its pension plans will be under funded at any given time. Handleman took steps to immunize its U.S. pension plan, which is significantly larger than the Canadian pension plan, thereby removing a significant portion of the economic risk. The U.S. plan changed to an 80% long-bond portfolio and 20% equity exposure from a 60% equity exposure and a 40% long-bond portfolio. This significantly reduces asset/liability mismatch risk related to the fluctuating market. Handleman has elected to terminate its pension plans and will purchase a non-participating group annuity contract for all participants in the U.S. pension plan upon regulatory approval, and purchase either non-participating annuity contracts or make lump sum payments to participants in the Canadian pension plan following regulatory approval. These purchases will require a large amount of cash. The risk exists that the amounts accrued may be insufficient for these purchases if market conditions continue to fluctuate and if net assets of the Company are insufficient to pay unsecured creditors in full. Handleman Company cannot provide assurance that shareholder distributions will occur. The Company’s Board of Directors will consider the appropriate application of the remaining cash balances, if any, including a distribution to shareholders after Handleman has settled all, or substantially all, of its obligations. However, based on the Company’s net asset balance as of May 2, 2009, shareholder distribution is unlikely. Handleman’s inability to retain the services of its current personnel may impact its ability to successfully sell the assets of the Company. Handleman’s ability to successfully sell the assets of the Company is partially dependent upon its ability to retain its remaining personnel. The retention of qualified personnel is difficult under the current circumstances. While Handleman has offered its critical employees retention and severance plans, there is no legal obligation that would require the employee to remain employed at Handleman. In the event that critical employees decide to terminate their employee relationships with Handleman, Handleman would have to retain outside consultants to perform their duties or offer a premium salary in order to hire employees to work for the Company. 5 Table of Contents Handleman may eventually rely on outside consultants and advisors to perform critical functions. As Handleman progresses in the sale of its remaining assets, it may become more dependent on outside consultants and advisors to perform critical functions. While Handleman anticipates that it will maintain Handleman employees in certain critical accounting, finance and tax positions, Handleman may have to rely on consultants, outside legal counsel and other contractors to perform day-to-day tasks. There is a risk that these non-Handleman employees will have interests and arrangements that may be different from the Company’s shareholders’ interests, including, but not limited to, other client priorities and relationships with entities that the Company may do business with in the future. Further, if the Company was unable to continue to employ qualified outside advisors and consultants to perform critical functions, the Company may be unable to meet its regulatory reporting obligations in a timely manner and the system of internal accounting controls may not function as intended. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Handleman Company does not have any unresolved staff comments to report. 