Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 – The discussion of the Company’s future plans contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There are risks associated with forward looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “possible,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “forecast” and similar words or expressions. Do not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since actual results may vary significantly. Handleman cannot assure that it will have adequate cash to complete an orderly liquidation of the Company. Based on the Company’s net asset balance as of April 28, 2012, the Company believes that it will have sufficient liquidity to fund the Company’s wind down related costs and provide payment in full to its creditors. These distributions are primarily dependent upon the resolution of all open items and periods with taxing authorities. If the Company is unable to resolve outstanding tax issues in a reasonable period of time, the Company’s ability to settle its liabilities in full while incurring necessary wind down costs would be in doubt. If the Company is able to generate cash proceeds in excess of what is needed to satisfy all of the Company’s obligations, the Company will distribute any such proceeds to shareholders. Whether there will be any excess cash proceeds for distribution to shareholders is subject to a number of material risks and uncertainties that may prevent any such distribution from occurring. Accordingly, while the Company believes that a cash distribution is possible, actual results may differ from current estimates, perhaps materially, possibly resulting in no excess cash proceeds available for distribution to shareholders. Handleman cannot assure the timing of distributions to creditors and shareholders. As the Company is still subject to the unresolved contingency described in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company cannot ascertain when the payment of creditor claims and distribution to shareholders is likely to occur. 2 Handleman Company must resolve tax matters. The Company is continuing to address on-going tax matters, including federal income taxes, state taxes and other taxing jurisdictions. Management continually monitors factors that may result in changes to tax estimates and may require management to adjust its tax assets and liabilities, perhaps significantly. Handleman cannot assure that there will not be any unanticipated complications relating to its divested businesses. Handleman cannot assure that there will not be unanticipated complications related to its divested businesses. Handleman may be subject to claims filed by customers, Anderson Merchandisers L.P. (“Anderson”), Tesco Stores Limited (“Tesco”), Fillpoint LLC (“Fillpoint”) and/or Mosaic Sales Solutions US Operations Co. LLC (“Mosaic”) related to the sale of those businesses. Although no disputes with such entities are currently pending, such disputes could arise in the future. The Company’s decision to wind down all business operations has resulted in the termination of employee relationships. Handleman is, therefore, subject to risk of employee lawsuits. While Handleman has made every effort to comply with laws related to these situations, there is a risk that an employee might assert that Handleman terminated his/her relationship in violation of certain laws, and that Handleman is required to pay the employee damages related to the employment termination. Even if Handleman were to prevail in such matters, Handleman would have to defend itself in matters related to employee rights and benefits. Handleman Company cannot provide assurance that shareholder distributions will occur. The Company’s Board of Directors will consider the appropriate application of the remaining cash balances, if any, including a distribution to shareholders after Handleman has settled all, or substantially all, of its obligations. Handleman may eventually rely on outside consultants and advisors to perform critical functions. As Handleman progresses in the wind down of operations, it may become more dependent on outside consultants and advisors to perform critical functions. While Handleman anticipates that it will maintain Handleman employees in certain critical accounting, finance and tax positions, Handleman may have to rely on consultants, outside legal counsel and other contractors to perform day-to-day tasks. There is a risk that these non-Handleman employees will have interests and arrangements that may be different from the Company’s shareholders’ interests, including, but not limited to, other client priorities. Further, if the Company were to be unable to continue to employ qualified outside advisors and consultants to perform critical functions, the Company might be unable to meet its regulatory reporting obligations in a timely manner and the system of internal accounting controls may not function as intended. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 