Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. – The discussion in this document, in particular the discussion under “Recent Developments” and the related discussion of the Company’s future plans, contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There are risks associated with forward looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations or beliefs concerning future events. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “could,” “possible,” “plan,” “project,” “will,” “forecast” and similar words or expressions. Do not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements since actual results may vary significantly from forward-looking statements. Handleman cannot assure that it will have adequate financing arrangements with its lenders. Handleman believes that cash provided from operations and the sale of assets could provide sufficient liquidity to fund the Company’s day-to-day operations provided that the Company is able to sell its remaining assets within a reasonable period of time. If the Company is unable to sell its assets in a reasonable period of time, or if the Company receives substantially less than anticipated, the Company’s liquidity would be dependent upon further amendments to its credit agreements or securing alternative funding. If these actions are unsuccessful, then the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern would be in doubt. Handleman cannot assure the successful sale of its remaining assets or that the sale of its assets will be at anticipated terms. While Handleman is reasonably confident that it will be able to successfully sell its remaining assets, it cannot make any assurances that there will be a reasonable demand for these assets. With the decline in the music and video industries, Handleman faces risks that further declines of sales in its operating markets will hinder its ability to successfully sell its assets. Handleman anticipates that sales of its remaining assets will be made on terms that are approved by the Board of Directors and may be conducted by competitive bidding, public sales or privately negotiated sales. The prices at which the Company will be able to sell these assets will depend largely on factors beyond the Company’s control, including, without limitation, the condition of financial markets, the availability of financing to prospective purchasers of the assets, public market perceptions and limitations on transferability of certain assets. Because some of the Company’s remaining assets, particularly intellectual property assets, may decline in value over time, the consummation of the sale of these assets in time to generate meaningful value is critical. In addition, the Company may not obtain as high a price for its illiquid assets as might have been obtained were the Company not seeking strategic alternatives for its various business operations. Handleman cannot assure that there will not be any unanticipated complications in the transitions of its businesses. While the transition of the U.S. Wal-Mart music business has been successful to date, Handleman cannot assure that there will not be unanticipated complications related to the transition of this business. Handleman may be subject to claims filed by Wal-Mart and/or Anderson related to the sale of the business, settling of accounts receivable disputes regarding customer music returns, accounts payable disputes regarding vendor claims or other related party claims. Similarly, as Handleman transitions its other non-Wal-Mart U.S. music customers to other suppliers, Handleman may be subject to similar risks. These risks include potential accounts receivable disputes with Handleman’s former customers, accounts payable disputes with vendors and disputes with the music providers to which Handleman’s former customers are transitioned. 9 Table of Contents Handleman also faces risks related to the sale of its Canadian operations. One risk, while not anticipated, is that the Canadian Heritage Ministry could withhold its approval of the sale to a date that is later than the period in which the Canadian operation must purchase its holiday season music product. If this occurs, it could significantly impact the purchase price that Anderson is willing to offer for the Canadian business. Another risk is that the Canadian Heritage Ministry denies its approval of the transaction. This would force Handleman to identify another buyer willing to purchase the Canadian operation. If Handleman were unable to identify a purchaser, then it might be forced to liquidate the Canadian assets. Further, Handleman faces certain risks related to the sale of its UK operations. While Handleman and Tesco have reached an agreement in principle for the sale of the UK assets, the parties’ negotiations may not reach a definitive agreement at terms that are favorable to Handleman. In addition, Tesco could assert its rights pursuant to its service agreement with Handleman related to the purchase of certain of Handleman’s assets. Further, as Handleman ceases its operations in the UK, Handleman must resolve payment issues related to its former ASDA greeting cards business. The Company’s decision to exit the North American music business has resulted in the termination of employee relationships. Handleman is, therefore, subject to risk of employee lawsuits. While Handleman has made every effort to comply with laws related to these situations, there is a risk that an employee might assert that Handleman terminated his/her relationship in violation of certain laws, and that Handleman is required to pay the employee damages related to the employment termination. Even if Handleman were to prevail in such matters, Handleman would have to defend itself in matters related to employee rights and benefits. Handleman must resolve matters related to its U.S. pension plan. Handleman Company has certain risks related to its U.S. pension plan. Handleman’s pension plan is at risk related to the current economic downturn. To the extent that Handleman’s pension plan has investments in volatile instruments, Handleman is at risk that its pension plan will be underfunded at any given time. Handleman is currently in the process of immunizing its pension plan thereby removing a significant portion of the economic risk. The plan will move to an 80% long-bond portfolio and 20% equity exposure from 60% equity exposure and a 40% long-bond portfolio. This significantly reduces asset/liability mismatch risk. While immunization would significantly reduce Handleman’s risk related to the fluctuating market, Handleman will still be subject to certain other risks. If Handleman elects to terminate its U.S. pension plan, Handleman faces the risk that the pension plan would be significantly underfunded. If the pension plan is underfunded, then Handleman would be required to contribute cash to meet the shortfall. If Handleman elects not to terminate the plan, but does not want to continue to actively fund the pension plan, then Handleman would be required to either find an interested investor willing to purchase the pension plan from Handleman or purchase a non-participating group annuity contract for all participants. As there is not an active market for pension plan purchasers, it might be very difficult to find an investor interested in purchasing its pension plan. If Handleman purchases a non-participating group annuity contract, Handleman would be required to pay a large amount of cash to do so. Handleman’s options, with the exception of purchasing a non-participating group annuity contract, increase Handleman’s regulatory risk that the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) may force the U.S. plan’s termination, which would require a large cash contribution to the plan. Handleman’s foreign subsidiaries will have to pass a Solvency Test in order to remit a dividend to Handleman Company, the parent company. As foreign operations are sold and cash is generated, Handleman must establish that its foreign subsidiaries are solvent prior to them paying a dividend to Handleman. To the extent that Handleman Company is relying on this dividend as part of its cash management efforts, a foreign subsidiary’s inability to remit the dividend could create substantial financial risks for Handleman’s liquidity. As the solvency test relates to Handleman Canada, Handleman may have to meet its obligations related to the Canadian 10 Table of Contents pension plan prior to the Canadian subsidiary remitting a dividend. As it relates to Handleman UK, Handleman Company may have to resolve all outstanding vendor payment disputes prior to the UK subsidiary remitting a dividend to Handleman. If foreign subsidiaries remit a dividend to Handleman during a period when such foreign subsidiaries are considered insolvent, then the Directors of those subsidiaries may be subjected to legal consequences, for which Handleman would have to provide them with indemnification. Handleman Company may eventually not have a business operation. As Handleman Company pursues the sale of its assets, it may eventually not have a business operation and its principal asset may consist of its cash balances. As a result, Handleman may be considered a shell company as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company’s Board of Directors intends to consider the appropriate application of the remaining cash balances, if any, including a possible distribution to shareholders after Handleman has settled all, or substantially all, of its obligations. Handleman cannot, however, provide any assurance that it will have any remaining cash to make such a distribution. Handleman’s inability to retain the services of its current personnel may impact its ability to successfully sell the assets of the Company. Handleman’s ability to successfully sell the assets of the Company is dependent, in large part, upon its ability to retain its remaining personnel. The retention of qualified personnel is particularly difficult under the current circumstances. While Handleman has offered its critical employees retention and severance plans, there is no legal obligation that would require the employee to remain employed at Handleman. In the event critical employees decided to terminate their employee relationships with Handleman, Handleman would have to retain outside consultants to perform their duties or offer a premium salary in order to hire employees to work for the Company. Handleman may eventually rely on outside consultants and advisors to perform critical functions. As Handleman progresses in the sale of its assets, it may become more dependent on outside consultants and advisors to perform critical functions. While Handleman anticipates that it will maintain Handleman employees in certain critical accounting, finance and tax positions, Handleman may have to rely on consultants, outside legal counsel and other contractors to perform day-to-day tasks. There is a risk that these non-Handleman employees will have interests and arrangements that may be different from the Company’s shareholders’ interests, including, but not limited to, other client priorities and relationships with entities that the Company may do business with in the future. Further, if the Company was unable to continue to employ qualified outside advisors and consultants to perform critical functions, the Company may be unable to meet its regulatory reporting obligations in a timely manner and the system of internal accounting controls may not function as intended. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Handleman Company does not have any unresolved staff comments to report. 