Item 1A. Risk Factors There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results and/or cash flows. 11 Table of Contents WE HAVE NOT REQUESTED AN HMRC RULING ON THE U.K. TAX ASPECTS OF THE REDOMESTICATION, AND HMRC MAY DISAGREE WITH OUR CONCLUSIONS. Based on current U.K. corporation tax law and the current U.K.-U.S. income tax treaty, as amended, we expect that the redomestication will not result in any material U.K. corporation tax liability to Ensco International plc. Further, we believe that we have satisfied all stamp duty reserve tax ("SDRT") payment and filing obligations in connection with the issuance and deposit of our Class A ordinary shares into the ADS facility pursuant to the deposit agreement governing the ADS facility. However, if HMRC disagrees with this view, it may take the position that material U.K. corporation tax or SDRT liabilities or amounts on account thereof are payable by Ensco International plc as a result of the redomestication, in which case we expect that we would contest such assessment. If we were unsuccessful in disputing the assessment, the implications could be materially adverse to us. We have not requested an HMRC ruling on the U.K. tax aspects of the redomestication, and there can be no assurance that HMRC will agree with our interpretations of U.K. corporation tax law or any related matters associated therewith. THE IRS MAY DISAGREE WITH OUR CONCLUSIONS ON TAX TREATMENT OF THE REDOMESTICATION. We expect that the redomestication will not result in any material U.S. federal income tax liability to Ensco International plc. However, the IRS may disagree with our assessments of the effects or interpretation of the tax laws, treaties or regulations or their enforcement with respect to the redomestication. Nevertheless, even if our conclusions on the U.S. tax treatment of the redomestication to Ensco International plc do not ultimately prevail, we do not believe that a contrary treatment of the redomestication by the IRS would result in a material increase in U.S. taxes compared to our pre-redomestication U.S. tax position. In this event we may not realize the expected tax benefits of the redomestication, and our operating results may be adversely affected in comparison to what they would have been if the IRS agreed with our conclusions. IF ENSCO INTERNATIONAL PLC AND ITS NON-U.S. SUBSIDIARIES BECOME SUBJECT TO U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX, OUR FINANCIAL POSITION, OPERATING RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Ensco International plc and its non-U.S. subsidiaries will conduct their operations in a manner intended to minimize the risk that Ensco International plc or its non-U.S. subsidiaries engage in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. Our U.S. and U.S.-owned subsidiaries will continue to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their worldwide income, and our non-U.S. subsidiaries will continue to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their U.S. operations. However, if Ensco International plc or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is or are determined to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., Ensco International plc or such non-U.S. subsidiaries would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on income that is subject to the taxing jurisdiction of the U.S. If this occurs, our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. WE MAY BE TREATED AS A U.S. CORPORATION FOR U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES FOLLOWING THE REDOMESTICATION. Generally for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is considered tax resident in the place of its incorporation. Ensco International plc is incorporated under U.K. law and should be deemed a U.K. corporation under these general rules. However, Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), generally provides that a corporation organized outside the U.S. that acquires substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the U.S. will be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired U.S. corporation own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the shares of the acquiring foreign corporation after the acquisition and the acquiring foreign corporation does not have substantial business activities in the country in which it is organized. As a result, Ensco must have substantial business activities in the U.K. to avoid being treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 7874. There is currently no "safe harbor" or other guidance that confirms when a foreign corporation's business activities in its country of incorporation are deemed to be substantial. Therefore, it is possible that the IRS would interpret the Section 7874 "anti-inversion" rules so as to treat Ensco International plc as a U.S. corporation. Moreover, the U.S. or U.K. may enact new statutory or regulatory provisions that could adversely affect our status as a non-U.S. corporation or otherwise adversely affect our anticipated consolidated effective income tax rate. Retroactive statutory or regulatory actions have occurred in the past, and there can be no assurance that any such provisions, if enacted or promulgated, would not have retroactive application. 12 Table of Contents Ensco International plc is a company formed under English law and has historic, continuous and substantial business activities in the U.K. as a result of its longstanding North Sea drilling activities and management and control over the Europe and Africa Business Unit, headquartered in Aberdeen, Scotland. Therefore, we believe Ensco International plc should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 7874. However, there is no certainty that the IRS will not assert a contrary position, in which case we could become involved in tax controversy with the IRS regarding possible additional U.S. tax liability. If we are unsuccessful in resolving any such tax controversy in our favor, we would likely not realize the tax savings we anticipate achieving through the redomestication, and we could be liable for additional U.S. federal income tax as a result of certain transactions undertaken as part of the redomestication. THE REDOMESTICATION MAY NOT ALLOW US TO MAINTAIN A COMPETITIVE CONSOLIDATED EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE. We believe the redomestication should improve our ability to maintain a competitive consolidated effective income tax rate because the U.K. corporate tax rate is lower than the U.S. corporate tax rate and because the U.K. has implemented a dividend exemption system that generally does not subject non-U.K. earnings to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. in the form of dividends from non-U.K. subsidiaries. The U.K. Government is consulting on reform of the U.K. controlled foreign companies rules (the "CFC rules") and published a discussion document in January 2010 that contains updated CFC rules related proposals. It has been announced that consultation regarding reform of the CFC rules will continue during 2010 with draft legislation expected later in 2010 and amendments to the CFC rules not likely to be enacted until 2011. The effect of any such amendments to the CFC rules on Ensco International plc will not be clear until the new legislation is published and enacted in its entirety. We will closely monitor the proposed amendments in order to address and mitigate their effects (if any) and will consider submitting representations to the U.K. Government on such proposed amendments as may affect us. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our effective income tax rates will be because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in U.K. and U.S. tax laws. Our actual effective income tax rates may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our consolidated effective income tax rate. We also could be subject to future audits conducted by U.K., U.S. and other tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could significantly impact our effective income tax rates in future periods, as would any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits and other matters could cause our effective income tax rates to increase and our financial position, operating results or cash flows to be adversely affected. CHANGES IN LAWS, INCLUDING TAX LAW CHANGES, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT ENSCO, ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS. Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, in the U.S., the U.K. or elsewhere, could adversely affect the tax consequences of the redomestication to Ensco and its shareholders and/or our effective income tax rates (whether associated with the redomestication or otherwise). For example, one reason for the redomestication was to begin to align our structure so as to have an opportunity to take advantage of U.K. corporate tax rates, which are lower than the U.S. income tax rates, and to take advantage of the recent dividend exemption system implemented in the U.K., which generally does not subject earnings of non-U.K. subsidiaries to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. as dividends. Future changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in general or any such changes resulting in a material change in the U.S. or U.K. tax rates in particular could reduce or eliminate the benefits that we expect to achieve from the redomestication. CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate could result in a higher effective income tax rate on our worldwide earnings and such change could be significant to our financial results. Our future effective income tax rates could also be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by HMRC, the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. 13 Table of Contents THE EXPECTED FINANCIAL, LOGISTICAL AND OPERATIONAL BENEFITS OF THE REDOMESTICATION MAY NOT BE REALIZED. We cannot be assured that all of the goals of the redomestication will be achieved, particularly as achievement of our goals is in many important respects subject to factors that we do not control. These factors include the reactions of U.K. and U.S. tax authorities, the reactions of third parties with whom we enter into contracts and conduct business and the reactions of investors and analysts. While we expect that the redomestication will enable us to take advantage of lower U.K. tax rates and the benefits of the U.K. dividend exemption system for certain non-U.K. source dividends repatriated to the U.K. in the years after implementation of the redomestication to a greater extent than would likely have been available if the redomestication had not occurred, these benefits may not be achieved. In particular, U.K. or U.S. tax authorities may challenge our application and/or interpretation of relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties, valuations and methodologies or other supporting documentation. If they are successful in doing so, we may not experience the level of benefits we anticipate, or we may be subject to adverse tax consequences. Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expenses in defending our position and contesting claims or positions asserted by tax authorities. Whether we realize other expected financial benefits of the redomestication will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include changes in the relative rate of economic growth in the U.K. compared to the U.S., our financial performance in jurisdictions with lower tax rates, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations (especially as between the British pound and the U.S. dollar), and significant changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policies of the U.K. or the U.S., including changes in interest rates. It is difficult to predict or quantify the effect of these factors, individually and in the aggregate, in part because the occurrence of any of these events or circumstances may be interrelated. If any of these events or circumstances occur, we may not be able to realize the expected financial benefits of the redomestication, and our expenses may increase to a greater extent than if we had not completed the redomestication. Realization of the logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication is also dependent on a variety of factors including the geographic regions in which our rigs are deployed, the location of the business unit offices that oversee our global offshore contract drilling operations, the locations of our customer's corporate offices and principal areas of operation and the location of our investors. If events or changes in circumstances occur affecting the aforementioned factors, we may not be able to realize the expected logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication. INVESTOR ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS AGAINST US MAY BE MORE DIFFICULT. Because our parent company is now a public limited company incorporated under English law, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts than would have been the case for U.S. judgments obtained against us prior to the redomestication. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court. AS A RESULT OF INCREASED SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS, WE MAY HAVE LESS FLEXIBILITY AS A U.K. PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY THAN WE HAD AS A U.S. CORPORATION WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN ASPECTS OF CAPITAL MANAGEMENT. Under Delaware law, our directors could issue, without further shareholder approval, any shares of common stock authorized in our certificate of incorporation that were not already issued or reserved. Delaware law also provided substantial flexibility in establishing the terms of preferred stock. However, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot shares with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. Such authorization would need to be renewed by our shareholders upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). An ordinary resolution was adopted prior to the effective time of the redomestication to authorize the allotment of additional shares and renewal of such authorization for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. 14 Table of Contents English law also generally provides shareholders preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash. However, it is possible for the articles of association or shareholders in a general meeting to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years from the date of adoption of the articles of association, if the exclusion is contained in the articles of association, or from the date of the shareholder resolution, if the exclusion is by shareholder resolution. In either case, this exclusion would need to be renewed upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). A special resolution was adopted to exclude preemptive rights prior to the effective time of the redomestication and renewal of such exclusion for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. English law prohibits us from conducting "on-market purchases" as our shares will not be traded on a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of "off-market purchases" without the prior approval of 75% of its shareholders by special resolution. Such approval lasts for a maximum period of up to five years. A special resolution was adopted to permit "off-market purchases" prior to the effective time of the redomestication. This special resolution will need to be renewed upon expiration (i.e., at least every five years) to permit "off-market purchases" and renewal for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. We have no assurances that situations will not arise where such shareholder approval requirements for any of these actions would deprive our shareholders of substantial benefits. OUR ABILITY TO DECLARE DIVIDENDS AND REPURCHASE SHARES WILL BE MORE LIMITED DUE TO THE REDOMESTICATION. Under English law, with limited exceptions, we will only be able to declare dividends, make distributions or repurchase shares out of distributable profits. Distributable profits are a company's accumulated realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made. It is expected that, subject to the risk factors discussed in this section and to the factors discussed in our Forward-Looking Statements, Ensco will have income from continuing operations sufficient to accumulate distributable profits in an amount sufficient to continue paying quarterly dividends at a rate of $0.025 per share on the anticipated schedule for the foreseeable future and to continue our repurchases of shares from employees in connection with the settlement of income tax withholding obligations arising from the vesting of share awards. However, our subsidiaries would need to declare a dividend payable to our U.K. parent and pay the associated withholding taxes to provide Ensco International plc the initial distributable profits sufficient to fully implement our previously disclosed Board authorization to repurchase up to $562.4 million of our shares. THE REDOMESTICATION WILL RESULT IN ADDITIONAL ONGOING COSTS. The redomestication will result in an increase in some of our ongoing expenses and require us to incur some new expenses. Some costs, including those related to relocation and employment of expatriate officers and other employees in our U.K. offices and holding Board of Directors meetings in the U.K., are expected to be higher than would be the case if our principal executive offices were not relocated to England. We also expect to incur new expenses, including professional fees, to comply with U.K. corporate and tax laws. THE MARKET FOR ADSs REPRESENTING CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES MAY DIFFER FROM THE FORMER MARKET FOR ENSCO COMMON STOCK. Although the ADSs are listed on the NYSE under the symbol "ESV," which is the same symbol under which common stock of Ensco Delaware was formerly listed, the market prices, trading volume and volatility of the ADSs could be different from those of the shares of Ensco Delaware common stock and certain funds and institutional holders may have rules or policies that restrict investment in ADSs. 15 Table of Contents THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS LARGELY DEPENDS ON THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY IN THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY WHICH CAN BE SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY VOLATILE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, may significantly affect the level of drilling activity. An actual decline, or the perceived risk of a decline, in oil and/or natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of activity or spending, in which case demand for our services may decline and revenues may be adversely affected through lower rig utilization and/or lower day rates. Worldwide military, political, environmental and economic events also contribute to oil and natural gas price volatility. Numerous other factors may affect oil and natural gas prices and the level of demand for our services, including: • demand for oil and natural gas, • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing, • the level of production by non-OPEC countries, • U.S. and non-U.S. tax policy, • laws and government regulations that limit, restrict or prohibit exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions, • advances in exploration and development technology, • disruption to exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions and the risk thereof, • the worldwide military or political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East or geographic areas in which we operate, or acts of terrorism, and • global economic conditions. THE OFFSHORE CONTRACT DRILLING INDUSTRY HISTORICALLY HAS BEEN CYCLICAL, WITH PERIODS OF LOW DEMAND AND EXCESS RIG AVAILABILITY THAT COULD RESULT IN ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR BUSINESS. Financial operating results in the offshore contract drilling industry historically have been very cyclical and primarily are related to the demand for drilling rigs and the available supply of drilling rigs. Demand for rigs is directly related to the regional and worldwide levels of offshore exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which is beyond our control. Offshore exploration and development spending may fluctuate substantially from year-to-year and from region-to-region. The supply of offshore drilling rigs is limited and new rigs require substantial capital investment and a long period of time to construct. There are 95 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2012. More that half of these rigs are scheduled for delivery during 2010, representing an approximate 10% increase in the total worldwide fleet of jackups and semisubmersible rigs. There are no assurances that the market in general or a geographic region in particular will be able to fully absorb the supply of new rigs in future periods. The increase in supply of offshore drilling rigs during 2010 and future periods could result in an oversupply of offshore drilling rigs and could cause a decline in utilization and/or day rates, a situation which could be exacerbated by a decline in demand for drilling rigs. Lower utilization and/or day rates in one or more of the regions in which we operate could adversely affect our revenues, utilization and profitability. 16 Table of Contents Certain events, such as limited availability or non-availability of insurance for certain perils in some geographic areas, rig loss or damage due to hurricanes, blowouts, craterings, punchthroughs and other operational events, may impact the supply of rigs in a particular market and cause rapid fluctuations in utilization and day rates. Future periods of reduced demand and/or excess rig supply may require us to idle additional rigs or enter into lower day rate contracts or contracts with less favorable terms. There can be no assurance that the current demand for drilling rigs will not decline in future periods. A decline in demand for drilling rigs or an increase in drilling rig supply could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and cash flows. DETERIORATION OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY AND/OR A DECLINE IN OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES COULD CAUSE OUR CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE SPENDING ON EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT DRILLING. THESE CONDITIONS COULD ALSO CAUSE OUR CUSTOMERS AND/OR VENDORS TO FAIL TO FULFILL THEIR COMMITMENTS AND/OR FUND FUTURE OPERATIONS AND OBLIGATIONS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling activity. Oil and natural gas prices have declined significantly from their record highs reached in July 2008. A sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices, whether caused by economic conditions, international or national climate change regulations or other factors, could cause oil and gas companies to further reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Disruption in the capital markets could also cause oil and gas companies to further reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Historically, when drilling activity and spending decline, utilization and day rates also decline and drilling may be reduced or discontinued, resulting in an oversupply of drilling rigs. The oversupply of drilling rigs could be exacerbated by the entry of newbuild rigs into the market. When idled or stacked, drilling rigs do not earn revenues, but continue to require cash expenditures for crews, fuel, insurance, berthing and associated items. A sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices, together with deterioration of the global economy, could substantially reduce demand for drilling rigs and adversely affect our financial position, operating results and cash flows. WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES IF OUR CUSTOMERS TERMINATE OR SEEK TO RENEGOTIATE OUR CONTRACTS, IF OPERATIONS ARE SUSPENDED OR INTERRUPTED OR IF A RIG BECOMES A TOTAL LOSS. Our drilling contracts often are subject to termination without cause upon specific notice by the customer. Although contracts may require the customer to pay an early termination payment in the event of a termination for convenience (without cause), such payment may not fully compensate for the loss of the contract and some of our contracts permit termination by the customer without an early termination payment. In periods of rapid market downturn, our customers may not honor the terms of existing contracts (including contracts for new rigs under construction), may terminate contracts or may seek to renegotiate contract day rates and terms to conform with depressed market conditions. Drilling contracts customarily specify automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of a total loss of the drilling rig and often include provisions addressing termination rights or reduction or cessation of day rates if operations are suspended or interrupted for extended periods due to breakdown of major rig equipment, unsatisfactory performance, "force majeure" events beyond the control of either party or other specified conditions. Our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by early termination of contracts, contract renegotiations or cessation of day rates while operations are suspended. 17 Table of Contents WE MAY INCUR ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AS A RESULT OF DECLINING DEMAND FOR OFFSHORE DRILLING RIGS. We evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment, primarily our drilling rigs, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such rigs may not be recoverable. The offshore drilling industry historically has been highly cyclical, and it is not unusual for rigs to be unutilized or underutilized for significant periods of time and subsequently resume full or near full utilization when business cycles change. Likewise, during periods of supply and demand imbalance, rigs are frequently contracted at or near cash break-even rates for extended periods of time until day rates increase when demand comes back into balance with supply. However, if the global economy were to deteriorate and/or the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, impairment charges may occur with respect to specific individual rigs, groups of rigs, such as a specific type of drilling rig, or rigs in a certain geographic location. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit's fair value as of the testing date. In most instances, our calculation of the fair value of our reporting units is based on estimates of future discounted cash flows to be generated by our drilling rigs, which reflect management's judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, as well as future industry conditions and operations, including expected utilization, day rates, expense levels, capital requirements and terminal values for each of our rigs. If the aggregate fair value of our reporting units exceeds our market capitalization, we evaluate the reasonableness of the implied control premium. If we determine the implied control premium is not reasonable, we adjust the discount rate in our discounted cash flow model and reduce the estimated fair values of our reporting units. If the global economy were to deteriorate and the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, our expectations of future cash flows may decline and could ultimately result in a goodwill impairment. Additionally, a significant decline in the market value of our shares could result in a goodwill impairment. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF CERTAIN CUSTOMERS CEASE TO DO BUSINESS WITH US. We provide our services to major international, government-owned and independent oil and gas companies. Our five largest customers accounted for 44% of consolidated revenues in the aggregate, with our largest customer representing 13%. Our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if a major customer terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts with us, requires renegotiation of our contracts or declines to award new contracts to us. 18 Table of Contents FAILURE TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN SKILLED PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. We require skilled personnel to operate our drilling rigs and to provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor has intensified as additional rigs are added to the worldwide fleet. There are 95 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2012, more than half of which are scheduled for delivery during 2010. These rigs will require new skilled and other personnel to operate. In periods of high utilization, it is more difficult and costly to recruit and retain qualified employees. Competition for such personnel could increase our future operating expenses, with a resulting reduction in net income, or impact our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. Notwithstanding current global economic conditions, we may be required to maintain or increase existing levels of compensation to retain our skilled workforce. Much of the skilled workforce is nearing retirement age, which may impact the availability of skilled personnel. We also are subject to potential further unionization of our labor force or legislative or regulatory action that may impact working conditions, paid time off or other conditions of employment. If such labor trends continue, they could further increase our costs or limit our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. OUR DRILLING CONTRACTS WITH NATIONAL OIL COMPANIES EXPOSE US TO GREATER RISKS THAN WE NORMALLY ASSUME. We currently have twelve jackup rigs contracted with national oil companies. The terms of these non-U.S. contracts are often non-negotiable and may expose us to greater commercial, political and operational risks than we assume in other contracts such as exposure to greater environmental liability, the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, under certain conditions that may not provide us an early termination payment, collection risks and political risks. While we believe that the financial, commercial and risk allocation terms of these contracts and our operating safeguards mitigate these risks, we can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. OUR DRILLING RIG FLEET IS CONCENTRATED IN PREMIUM JACKUP RIGS, WHICH LEAVES US VULNERABLE TO RISKS RELATED TO LACK OF DIVERSIFICATION. The offshore contract drilling industry is generally divided into two broad markets: deepwater and shallow water drilling. These broad markets are generally divided into smaller sub-markets based upon various factors, including type of drilling rig. The primary types of drilling rigs include jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs, drillships, platform rigs, barge rigs and submersible rigs. While all drilling rigs are affected by general economic and industry conditions, each type of drilling rig can be affected differently by changes in demand. We currently have 42 jackup rigs, four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and one barge rig. Additionally, we have four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs under construction. Our drilling rig fleet is concentrated in premium jackup rigs. If the market for premium jackup rigs should decline relative to the markets for other drilling rig types, our operating results could be more adversely affected relative to our competitors with drilling fleets that are less concentrated in premium jackup rigs. 19 Table of Contents OUR NON-U.S. OPERATIONS INVOLVE ADDITIONAL RISKS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH U.S. OPERATIONS. Revenues from non-U.S. operations were 86%, 80% and 77% of our total revenues during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our non-U.S. operations and shipyard rig construction and enhancement projects are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances, • expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our equipment, • expropriation or nationalization of a customer's property or drilling rights, • repudiation or nationalization of contracts, • assaults on property or personnel, • piracy, kidnapping and extortion demands, • exchange restrictions, • currency fluctuations, • changes in the manner or rate of taxation, • limitations on our ability to recover amounts due, • increased risk of government and vendor/supplier corruption, • changes in political conditions, and • changes in monetary policies. We historically have maintained insurance coverage and obtained contractual indemnities that protect us from some, but not all, of the risks associated with our non-U.S. operations such as nationalization, deprivation, confiscation, political and war risks. However, there can be no assurance that any particular type of contractual or insurance protection will be available in the future or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. In circumstances where we have insurance protection for some or all of the risks associated with non-U.S. operations, such insurance may be subject to cancellation on short notice, and it is unlikely that we will be able to remove our rig or rigs from the affected area within the notice period. Accordingly, a significant event for which we are uninsured or underinsured, or for which we have not received an enforceable contractual indemnity from a customer, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to various tax laws and regulations in substantially all countries in which we operate or have a legal presence. We evaluate applicable tax laws and employ various business structures and operating strategies to obtain the optimal level of taxation on our revenues, income, assets and personnel. Actions by tax authorities that impact our business structures and operating strategies, such as changes to tax treaties, laws and regulations, or the interpretation or repeal of same, adverse rulings in connection with audits or otherwise, or other challenges may substantially increase our tax expense. 20 Table of Contents Our non-U.S. operations also face the risk of fluctuating currency values, which can impact our revenues, operating costs and capital expenditures. In addition, some of the countries in which we operate have occasionally enacted exchange controls. Historically, these risks have been limited by invoicing and receiving payment in U.S. dollars (our functional currency) or freely convertible international currency and, to the extent possible, by limiting acceptance of foreign currency to amounts which approximate our expenditure requirements in such currencies. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such terms in the future. We currently conduct contract drilling operations in certain countries that have experienced substantial fluctuations in the value of their currency compared to the U.S. dollar. Our drilling contracts generally stipulate payment wholly or substantially in U.S. dollars, which reduces the impact currency fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such payment terms in the future. A portion of the costs and expenditures incurred by our non-U.S. operations, including a portion of the construction payments for the ENSCO 8500 Series® rigs, are settled in local currencies, exposing us to risks associated with fluctuation in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce this exposure. However, the relative weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the local currencies in these countries may increase our costs and expenditures. Our non-U.S. operations are also subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the operation of drilling rigs and the requirement for equipment thereon. Governments in some non-U.S. countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of oil, natural gas and mineral concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration of oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry in their countries. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil and/or natural gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, government activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work performed by major international oil companies and may continue to do so. Moreover, certain countries accord preferential treatment to local contractors or joint ventures, which can place us at a competitive disadvantage. There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or activities will not have a material adverse effect on our future operations. RIG CONSTRUCTION, UPGRADE AND ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS, INCLUDING DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS. THE RISKS ARE CONCENTRATED BECAUSE OUR FOUR ULTRA-DEEPWATER SEMISUBMERSIBLE RIGS CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION ARE AT A SINGLE SHIPYARD IN SINGAPORE. THREE OF THESE RIGS DO NOT HAVE DRILLING CONTRACTS. There are 95 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order or under construction with expected delivery dates through 2012. As a result, shipyards and third-party equipment vendors are under significant resource constraints to meet delivery obligations. Such constraints may lead to substantial delivery and commissioning delays and/or equipment failures and/or quality deficiencies. Furthermore, new drilling rigs may face start-up or other operational complications following completion of construction work or other unexpected difficulties including equipment failures, design or engineering problems that could result in significant downtime at reduced or zero day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. 21 Table of Contents We currently have four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs under construction. In addition, we may construct additional rigs and continue to upgrade the capability and extend the service lives of our existing rigs. Rig construction, upgrade, life extension and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • failure of third-party equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, • delays in equipment deliveries or shipyard construction, • shortages of materials or skilled labor, • damage to shipyard facilities or construction work in progress, including damage resulting from fire, explosion, flooding, severe weather or terrorism, • unforeseen design or engineering problems, • unanticipated actual or purported change orders, • strikes, labor disputes or work stoppages, • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard while constructing, upgrading, refurbishing or repairing a rig or rigs, • unanticipated cost increases, • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations impacting overall cost, • inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals, • force majeure, and • additional risks inherent to shipyard projects in a non-U.S. location. Our risks are concentrated because our four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs currently under construction are at a single shipyard in Singapore. Although based on the design of ENSCO 7500 which has operated without significant downtime since its delivery in 2000, these four rigs and the recently delivered ENSCO 8500, ENSCO 8501 and ENSCO 8502 have a common risk of unforeseen design or engineering problems. Furthermore, ENSCO 8503 is subject to a firm, fixed day rate drilling contract upon completion of construction and significant shipyard project cost overruns or delays could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contract and have a materially adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. ENSCO 8504, ENSCO 8505 and ENSCO 8506 have not secured drilling contracts upon completion of their construction. These rigs are scheduled to be delivered during the second half of 2011 and first and second half of 2012, respectively. There is no assurance that we will secure drilling contracts for these rigs or that the drilling contracts we may be able to secure will be based upon rates and terms that will provide a reasonable rate of return on these investments. Our failure to secure contractual commitments for these rigs at rates and terms that result in a reasonable return upon completion of construction may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. If we are able to secure drilling contracts prior to completion, we will be exposed to the risk of delays that could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contracts and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents WE HAVE INVESTED A PORTION OF OUR CASH IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES AND WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO HOLD THEM INDEFINITELY DUE TO AN ILLIQUID MARKET. As of December 31, 2009, we held $66.8 million (par value) of auction rate securities. Auctions for most of our auction rate securities began to fail in February 2008, as there were more sellers than buyers at scheduled interest rate auctions and parties desiring to sell their auction rate securities were unable to do so. When an auction fails, the interest rate is adjusted according to the provisions of the associated security agreement. The majority of our auction rate securities are currently rated Aaa by Moody's, AAA by Standard & Poor's and/or AAA by Fitch. An aggregate $64.3 million (par value), or 96% of our auction rate securities, were issued by state agencies and are supported by student loans for which repayment is substantially guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Auction failures and the resulting lack of liquidity have affected the entire auction rate securities market, and we are currently unable to determine whether these conditions will be of an extended duration. While it is estimated that more than half of the $330.0 billion auction rate securities market has been refinanced, student loan supported auction rate securities remain mostly constrained and illiquid. Although $5.5 million and $6.0 million of our auction rate securities were redeemed at par value during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, we are currently unable to determine whether issuers of our auction rate securities will attempt and/or be able to refinance. We are also unable to determine if alternative markets that provide orderly purchases and sales of auction rate securities will develop. Pursuant to regulatory settlements, several major brokerage firms have offered to repurchase auction rate securities from retail investors, charities and small businesses, and use best efforts to provide liquidity to institutional investors within the next several years. However, we are currently unable to determine whether these brokerage firms will be able to comply with the terms of their regulatory settlements. Moreover, current global economic conditions may impede auction rate security repurchases. Although we acquired our auction rate securities with the intention of selling them in the near-term, we do not currently expect to experience liquidity problems or alter any business plans if we maintain our investment in these securities indefinitely. Our auction rate securities have final maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2047. THE POTENTIAL FOR GULF OF MEXICO HURRICANE RELATED WINDSTORM DAMAGE OR LIABILITIES COULD RESULT IN UNINSURED LOSSES AND MAY CAUSE US TO ALTER OUR OPERATING PROCEDURES DURING HURRICANE SEASON, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, and we have a larger concentration of jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico than most of our competitors. We currently have seven jackup rigs and two ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could result in rig loss or damage, termination of drilling contracts on lost or severely damaged rigs or curtailment of operations on damaged drilling rigs with reduced or suspended day rates for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our drilling rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers' platforms and other related facilities in the area. Our drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico have been impacted by hurricanes, including the total loss of one jackup rig during 2004, one platform rig during 2005 and one jackup rig during 2008, with associated loss of contract revenues and potential liabilities. 23 Table of Contents Insurance companies incurred substantial losses in the offshore drilling, exploration and production industries as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico during 2004, 2005 and 2008. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the nature and amount of insurance coverage available for losses arising from named tropical storm or hurricane damage in the Gulf of Mexico ("windstorm damage") and have dramatically increased the cost of available windstorm coverage. In discussions with insurance brokers and underwriters concerning our 2009 mid-year, annual insurance renewal, we were advised that coverage for risks associated with Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage had limited capacity and would be very costly. The tight insurance market not only applies to coverage related to Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage or loss of our drilling rigs, but also impacts coverage for potential liabilities to third parties associated with property damage, personal injury or death and environmental liabilities as well as coverage for removal of wreckage and debris associated with hurricane losses. We have no assurance that the tight insurance market for windstorm damage, liabilities and removal of wreckage and debris will not continue into the foreseeable future. Upon renewal of our annual insurance policies effective July 1, 2009, we obtained $450.0 million of annual coverage for ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig hull and machinery losses arising from Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage with a $50.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention (deductible). However, due to the significant premium, high self-insured retention and limited coverage, we decided not to purchase windstorm insurance for our jackups remaining in the Gulf of Mexico. Accordingly, we have retained the risk for loss or damage of our seven jackup rigs remaining in the Gulf of Mexico arising out of windstorm damage. Our current liability insurance policies only provide coverage for Gulf of Mexico windstorm exposures for removal of wreckage and debris in excess of $50.0 million per occurrence as respects both our jackup and ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig operations. Our limited windstorm insurance coverage exposes us to a significant level of risk due to jackup rig damage or loss related to severe weather conditions caused by Gulf of Mexico hurricanes. We have established operational procedures designed to mitigate risk to our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season. In addition to procedures designed to better secure the drilling package on jackup rigs, improve jackup leg stability and increase the air gap to position the hull above waves, our procedures involve analysis of prospective drilling locations, which may include enhanced bottom surveys. These procedures may result in a decision to decline to operate on a customer designated location during hurricane season notwithstanding that the location, water depth and other standard operating conditions are within a rig's normal operating range. Our procedures and the associated regulatory requirements addressing Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit operations in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season, coupled with our decision to retain (self-insure) certain windstorm related risks, may result in a significant reduction in the utilization of our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. As noted above, we have a $50.0 million per occurrence deductible for windstorm loss or damage to our ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs in the Gulf of Mexico and have elected not to purchase loss or damage insurance coverage for our seven jackup rigs in the area. Moreover, we have retained the risk for the first $50.0 million of liability exposure for removal of wreckage and debris resulting from windstorm related exposures associated with our rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. These and other retained exposures for property loss or damage and wreckage and debris removal or other liabilities associated with Gulf of Mexico hurricanes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows if we sustain significant uninsured or underinsured losses or liabilities as a result of Gulf of Mexico hurricanes. THE LOSS OF ENSCO 74 MAY EXPOSE US TO COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH REMOVAL OF WRECKAGE AND DEBRIS, LIABILITIES FOR PROPERTY LOSS OR DAMAGE, PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH OR ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES THAT MAY NOT BE FULLY RECOVERABLE UNDER OUR INSURANCE OR CONTRACTUAL INDEMNITIES. In September 2008, ENSCO 74 was lost as a result of Hurricane Ike in the Gulf of Mexico. Portions of its legs remained underwater adjacent to the customer's platform, and we conducted extensive aerial and sonar reconnaissance but did not locate the rig hull. In March 2009, the sunken rig hull of ENSCO 74 was located approximately 95 miles from the original drilling location when it was struck by an oil tanker. Following discovery of the sunken rig hull, we removed the accessible hydrocarbons onboard the rig and began planning for removal of the wreckage. As an interim measure, the wreckage has been appropriately marked, and the U.S. Coast Guard has issued a Notice to Mariners. We are currently communicating with various government agencies to address removal of the wreckage and related debris. We are involved in civil litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas in which the owners of the tanker SKS Satilla are seeking monetary damages of $10.0 million for losses incurred when the tanker struck the sunken hull of ENSCO 74. In addition, we received notice from legal counsel representing owners of another tanker alleging that the sunken hull of the ENSCO 74 caused damage to their tanker in January 2009 resulting in unspecified damages and losses. 24 Table of Contents We are involved in civil litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas in which the owner of a pipeline, High Island Offshore System, LLC, alleges that ENSCO 74 damaged the pipeline in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike and is seeking damages for the cost of repairs and business interruption in excess of $26.0 million. We also are involved in civil litigation in the Fifteenth Judicial Court for the Parish of Lafayette and in the Nineteenth Judicial Court for the Parish of Baton Rouge, State of Louisiana in which the owner of a pipeline, Sea Robin Pipeline Company, LLC, is seeking unspecified damages in relation to the cost of repairing damage to the pipeline, loss of revenues, survey and other damages allegedly caused by ENSCO 74 in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. On November 2, 2009, the owners of two other subsea pipelines presented claims in the exoneration or limitation of liability proceedings we filed in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas as described below. The claims were filed on behalf of Stingray Pipeline Company, LLC, and Tennessee Gas Pipeline seeking monetary damages incurred by reason of damage to pipelines allegedly caused by ENSCO 74 in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. The Stingray claim is in the amount of $14.0 million, and the Tennessee Gas Pipeline claim is for unspecified damages. We are exposed to costs associated with removal of the ENSCO 74 legs that remain underwater adjacent to the customer's platform and the sunken rig hull and related debris. Although we expect the cost of removal of the leg sections and the hull and related debris to be covered by available insurance and contractual indemnification, we may not be fully protected from such costs, liability or exposure (without any additional deductible or self-insured retention). Moreover, although appropriately marked following issuance of a U.S. Coast Guard Notice to Mariners, the sunken hull of ENSCO 74 may expose us to liabilities as a hazard to navigation and may also expose us to various potential liabilities for property loss or damage, personal injury or death and environmental liabilities, including penalties, fines and clean-up costs. Our liability insurance may not fully protect us from cost, liability or exposure associated with the loss of ENSCO 74. As respects liabilities to third-parties, including the aforementioned tanker and pipeline claims, our applicable insurance is subject to a $10.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention and an annual aggregate policy limit of $500.0 million. We believe all liabilities associated with the ENSCO 74 loss during Hurricane Ike resulted from a single occurrence under the terms of the applicable insurance policies. However, legal counsel for certain liability underwriters have asserted that the liability claims arise from separate occurrences. In the event of multiple occurrences, the self-insured retention is $15.0 million for two occurrences and $1.0 million for each occurrence thereafter. We plan to undertake all appropriate defensive measures and filed a petition for exoneration or limitation of liability under U.S. admiralty and maritime law in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas on September 2, 2009. The petition seeks exoneration from or limitation of liability for any and all injury, loss or damage caused, occasioned or occurred in relation to the ENSCO 74 loss in September 2008. The exoneration/limitation proceeding currently includes the SKS Satilla claim and the four pipeline claims described above. The matter has been scheduled for trial in September 2011. See Note 11 and Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the loss of ENSCO 74 and associated contingencies. OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES NUMEROUS OPERATING HAZARDS, AND WE ARE NOT FULLY INSURED AGAINST ALL OPERATING HAZARDS. Contract drilling and offshore oil and gas operations in general are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • rig or other property damage, liability or loss, including removal of wreckage or debris, resulting from hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, collisions, groundings, blowouts, fires, explosions and other accidents or terrorism, • blowouts, fires, explosions and other loss of well control events causing damage to wells, reservoirs, production facilities and other properties and which may require wild well control, including drilling of relief wells, • craterings, punchthroughs or other events causing rigs to capsize, sink or otherwise incur significant damage or total loss, • extensive uncontrolled rig or well fires, blowouts, oil spills or other discharges of pollutants causing damage to the environment, • machinery breakdowns, equipment failures, personnel shortages, failure of subcontractors and vendors to perform or supply goods and services and other events causing the suspension or cancellation of drilling operations, and • unionization or similar collective actions by our employees or employees of subcontractors causing suspension of drilling operations or significant increases in operating costs. 25 Table of Contents In addition to these risks to property and the environment, many of the hazards and risks associated with our operations and accidents or other events resulting from such hazards and risks, as well as our routine operations, expose our personnel, as well as personnel of our customers, subcontractors, vendors and other third-parties, to the risk of personal injury or death. Although we currently maintain broad insurance coverage, subject to certain significant deductibles and levels of self-insurance or risk retention, it does not cover all types of losses and, in some situations such as rig loss or damage resulting from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm exposures, may not provide coverage for damages, in whole or in part, losses or liabilities resulting from our operations. Except for windstorm coverage on our Gulf of Mexico rigs subsequent to July 1, 2006, which was placed on a limited basis, we historically have maintained insurance coverage for damage to or loss of our drilling rigs in amounts not less than the estimated fair market value thereof. Even when insured, we have encountered circumstances in which insurance companies have issued reservations of rights or denied coverage which has, in certain circumstances, resulted in litigation. However, in the event of total loss, such coverage is unlikely to be sufficient to recover the cost of a newly-constructed replacement rig. Since we do not maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance, we are fully exposed to loss of contract drilling revenues resulting from rig loss or damage. We generally obtain contractual indemnification obligating our customers to protect and indemnify us for all or part of the liabilities resulting from pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells, reservoirs and other customer property, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and certain non-rig crew personnel injuries. Such indemnification protection may be qualified or limited and may exclude certain perils or events or the application of local law. In some circumstances, we are unable to obtain indemnification protection for some or all of the risks generally assumed by our customers, including risks and liabilities relating to environmental damage, well loss or damage or wild well control. The inability to obtain such indemnification or the failure of a customer to meet indemnification obligations or losses or liabilities resulting from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our contracts generally protect us in whole or part from certain losses sustained as a result of our negligence, most frequently as respects pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells or reservoirs, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and consequential damages. However, losses resulting from contracts that do not contain such protection could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Losses resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct may not be protected contractually by specific provision or by application of law, and our insurance may not provide adequate protection for such losses. COMPLIANCE WITH OR BREACH OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS CAN BE COSTLY AND COULD LIMIT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, pollution, contamination and hazardous waste disposal or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Laws and regulations specifically applicable to our business activities could impose significant liability on us for damages, clean-up costs, fines and penalties in the event of oil spills or similar discharges of pollutants or contaminants into the environment or improper disposal of hazardous waste generated in the course of our operations. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, and we have not experienced an accident that has exposed us to material liability for discharges of pollutants into the environment. However, there can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or accidents will not expose us to material liability in the future. The International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation, the U.K. Merchant Shipping Act 1995, the U.K. Merchant Shipping (Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation Convention) Regulations 1998 and other related legislation and regulations and OPA 90 and other U.S. federal statutes applicable to us and our operations, as well as similar statutes in Texas, Louisiana, other coastal states and other non-U.S. jurisdictions, address oil spill prevention and control and significantly expand liability, fine and penalty exposure across many segments of the oil and gas industry. Such statutes and related regulations impose a variety of obligations on us related to the prevention of oil spills, disposal of waste and liability for resulting damages. For instance, OPA 90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil removal costs as well as a variety of fines, penalties and damages. Failure to comply with these statutes and regulations, including OPA 90, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement action, which may not be covered by contractual indemnification or insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Events in recent years have generally heightened environmental concerns about the oil and gas industry. From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. To date, no proposals have been enacted into law which would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation. However, we are adversely affected by moratoria on drilling in certain areas of the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere. If new laws are enacted or other government action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation or impose environmental protection requirements that materially increase the cost of offshore drilling, exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas, we could be materially adversely affected. LAWS AND GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY ADD TO COSTS, LIMIT OUR DRILLING ACTIVITY OR REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR DRILLING SERVICES. Our operations are affected by political developments and by laws and regulations that relate directly to the oil and gas industry, including initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The offshore contract drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas industry. Accordingly, we will be directly affected by the approval and adoption of laws and regulations limiting or curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental, safety and other policy reasons. We may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could reduce the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and our drilling services. Governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our drilling services. Furthermore, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur substantial additional costs to comply with new governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that legislative and regulatory activity could adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or significantly increasing our operating costs. TERRORIST ATTACKS, PIRACY AND MILITARY ACTION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Terrorist acts, piracy, kidnapping, extortion or acts of war may cause damage to or disruption of our operations, employees, property and equipment or customers, suppliers and subcontractors, which may not be covered by insurance or an enforceable contractual indemnity and could significantly impact our financial position, operating results and cash flows. These acts create many economic and political uncertainties and the potential for future similar acts, the national and international responses and other acts of war or hostility could create many economic and political uncertainties, including an impact upon oil and natural gas drilling, exploration and development. This could adversely affect our business in ways that cannot readily be determined. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD AFFECT US ADVERSELY. We are involved in litigation, including various claims, disputes and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, many of which are uninsured and relate to commercial, employment or regulatory activities. We also are concluding an internal investigation relating to compliance with the anti-bribery, recordkeeping and accounting provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") that focuses on activities related to our former operations in Nigeria and the associated accounting entries and internal accounting controls and have self-reported to the appropriate U.S. government authorities. Although we cannot accurately predict the outcome of our litigation, claims, disputes, regulatory proceedings and investigations or the amount or impact of any associated liability or other sanctions, these matters could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 