Item 1A. Risk Factors There are numerous factors that affect our business and our operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. 10 Table of Contents THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS LARGELY DEPENDS ON THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY IN THE OIL AND NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY, WHICH CAN BE SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY VOLATILE OIL AND GAS PRICES. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, may significantly affect the level of drilling activity. An actual decline, or the perceived risk of a decline, in oil or natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of activity or spending, in which case demand for our equipment and services may decrease and revenues may be adversely affected through lower rig utilization and lower average day rates. Worldwide military, political, environmental and economic events also contribute to oil and natural gas price volatility. Numerous other factors may affect oil and natural gas prices and the level of demand for our services, including: • demand for oil and gas, • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing, • the level of production by non-OPEC countries, • domestic and international tax policy, • laws and governmental regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions, • advances in exploration and development technology, • disruption to exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, and • the worldwide military or political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East or geographic areas in which we operate, or acts of terrorism. THE OFFSHORE CONTRACT DRILLING INDUSTRY HAS HISTORICALLY BEEN CYCLICAL, WITH PERIODS OF LOW DEMAND AND EXCESS RIG AVAILABILITY THAT COULD RESULT IN ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR BUSINESS. Financial operating results in the offshore contract drilling industry have historically been very cyclical and primarily are related to the demand for drilling rigs and the available supply of rigs. Demand for rigs is directly related to the regional and worldwide levels of offshore exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which is beyond our control. Offshore exploration and development spending may fluctuate substantially from year to year and from region to region. The supply of offshore drilling rigs is limited and new rigs require a substantial capital investment and a long period of time to construct. There are over 120 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2011. Approximately 50 of these rigs are scheduled for delivery in 2008, representing an approximate 10% increase in the total worldwide fleet of jackups and semisubmersible rigs. There are no assurances that the market in general, or a geographic region in particular, will be able to fully absorb the supply of new rigs in future periods. The increase in supply of offshore drilling rigs in 2008 and future periods could result in an oversupply of offshore drilling rigs and could cause a decline in utilization and day rates. Lower utilization and day rates in one or more of the regions in which we operate could adversely affect our revenues, utilization and profitability. Certain events, such as limited availability of insurance for certain perils in some geographical areas, rig loss or damage due to hurricanes, blowouts, craterings, punchthroughs, and other operational events, may impact the supply of rigs in a particular market and cause rapid fluctuations in rig demand, utilization and day rates. Future periods of decreased demand and/or excess rig supply may require us to idle rigs or to enter into lower rate contracts or contracts with less favorable terms. There can be no assurance that the current demand for drilling rigs will not decline in future periods, nor can there be any assurance concerning any adverse effect resulting from such decrease in activity or an increase in rig supply. 11 Table of Contents RIG CONSTRUCTION, UPGRADE AND ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS INCLUDING DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS. THE RISKS ARE CONCENTRATED BECAUSE OUR FOUR SEMISUBMERSIBLE RIGS CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION ARE AT ONE SHIPYARD IN SINGAPORE. There are over 120 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order for construction with delivery dates through 2011. As a result, shipyards and third party equipment vendors are under significant resource constraints to meet delivery obligations. Such constraints may lead to substantial delivery and commissioning delays of rigs under construction and/or equipment failures and/or quality deficiencies. Furthermore, new drilling rigs may face start-up or other operational complications following completion of construction work, or other unexpected difficulties or equipment failures that could result in significant downtime at reduced or zero day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. We have four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs under construction at a shipyard in Singapore. In addition, we may construct additional rigs and continue to upgrade the capability and extend the service lives of our existing rigs. Rig construction, upgrade, life extension and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • failure of third party equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, • delays in equipment deliveries or shipyard construction, • shortages of materials or skilled labor, • unforeseen design or engineering problems, • unanticipated actual or purported change orders, • strikes, labor disputes or work stoppages, • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard while constructing, upgrading, refurbishing or repairing a rig or rigs, • adverse weather conditions, • unanticipated cost increases, • foreign currency fluctuations impacting overall cost, • inability to obtain any of the requisite permits or approvals, • force majeure, and • additional risks inherent to shipyard projects in an international location. Our risks are concentrated because our four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs currently under construction are at one shipyard in Singapore. Although based on the existing design of ENSCO 7500, these four rigs have a common risk of unforeseen design or engineering problems. Furthermore, three of the rigs (ENSCO 8500, ENSCO 8501 and ENSCO 8502) are subject to firm, fixed day rate drilling contracts upon completion of construction and significant shipyard project cost overruns or delays could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contracts and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Our fourth ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig under construction (ENSCO 8503) currently does not have a contractual commitment upon completion. If we are unable to secure a contractual commitment for the rig prior to the completion of construction, it may result in a material adverse affect on our financial condition or operating results. If we are able to secure a drilling contract prior to completion, we will be exposed to the risk of delays that could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contract and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 12 Table of Contents FAILURE TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN SKILLED PERSONNEL COULD IMPEDE OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. We require skilled personnel to operate our drilling rigs and to provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor has intensified as additional rigs are activated or are added to the worldwide fleet. There are over 120 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2011, approximately 50 of which are scheduled for delivery in 2008. These rigs will require new skilled and other personnel to operate. In periods of high utilization, such as the current period, it is more difficult and costly to recruit and retain qualified employees. Although competition for skilled and other labor has not materially affected us to date, competition for such personnel could increase our future operating expenses, with a resulting reduction in net income, or impact our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. We have experienced a tightening in our labor markets largely due to the loss of experienced personnel to our customers, competitors and other businesses involved in oil and gas exploration activities. In response to these market conditions, we have increased compensation and have incurred other costs to retain our workforce, including bonus and retention programs for certain personnel. We also are subject to potential further unionization of our labor force or legislative or regulatory action that may impact working conditions, paid time off, or other conditions of employment. If such labor trends continue, they could further increase our costs or limit our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES IF OUR CUSTOMERS TERMINATE OR SEEK TO RENEGOTIATE OUR CONTRACTS OR IF OPERATIONS ARE SUSPENDED OR INTERRUPTED RESULTING IN REDUCTION OR CESSATION OF DAY RATES. Our drilling contracts often are subject to termination without cause upon specific notice by the customer. Although contracts may require the customer to pay an early termination payment, such payment may not fully compensate for the loss of the contract and some of our contracts permit termination by the customer without an early termination payment. In periods of rapid market downturn, our customers may not honor the terms of existing contracts, may terminate contracts or may seek to renegotiate contract rates and terms to conform with depressed market conditions. Furthermore, contracts customarily specify automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of a total loss of the drilling rig and often include provisions addressing termination rights or reduction or cessation of day rates if operations are suspended or interrupted for extended periods by reason of excessive downtime for breakdowns or repairs, force majeure or other specified conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. Our operating results may be adversely affected by early termination of contracts, contract renegotiations or cessation of day rates while operations are suspended. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF CERTAIN CUSTOMERS CEASE TO DO BUSINESS WITH US. We provide our services to major international, government-owned and independent oil and gas companies. The number of customers we serve has decreased in recent years as a result of mergers among oil companies. Although no customer represented more than 10% of revenues in 2007, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of consolidated revenues in the aggregate. Our operating results may be materially adversely affected if any major customer terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts with us, or declines to award new contracts to us. OUR DRILLING CONTRACTS WITH NATIONAL OIL COMPANIES EXPOSE US TO GREATER RISKS THAN WE NORMALLY ASSUME. We currently have 11 jackup rigs contracted with national oil companies. The terms of these contracts may expose us to greater risks than we normally assume, such as exposure to greater environmental liability or the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, subject to certain conditions which may not provide us an early termination payment. While we believe that the financial terms of these contracts and our operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, we can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have a negative impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. 13 Table of Contents WE HAVE SIGNIFICANT LEVELS OF SELF-INSURANCE FOR GULF OF MEXICO HURRICANE RELATED WINDSTORM DAMAGE COVERAGE WHICH EXPOSES US TO ADDITIONAL RISK AND CAUSES US TO ALTER OUR OPERATING PROCEDURES DURING HURRICANE SEASON WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our drilling rigs in the Gulf Coast Region are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms and we have a larger concentration of rigs in the Gulf Coast Region than most of our competitors. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially result in rig loss or damage or could cause termination of drilling contracts on lost or severely damaged rigs or curtailment of operations on damaged drilling rigs with reduced or suspended day rates for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our drilling rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers' platforms and other related facilities in the area. To date, our drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico have not been materially impacted by hurricanes, although we sustained the total loss of one jackup rig in 2004 and one platform rig in 2005 by reason of hurricane damage. We currently have 13 jackup rigs and one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig in the Gulf of Mexico. Insurance companies incurred substantial losses in the offshore drilling, exploration and production industries as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico during 2004 and 2005. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the levels of insurance coverage available for losses arising from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage and have dramatically increased the cost of such coverage. Upon renewal of our annual insurance policies effective July 1, 2007, we obtained $127.5 million of annual aggregate coverage for jackup rig hull and machinery losses arising from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage with a $50.0 million per occurrence deductible (these limits do not apply to our ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig as long as the rig takes action to evade the storm by moving off location according to established procedures). This amount of coverage is significantly less than our historical coverage. Our limited insurance coverage exposes us to a significant level of risk due to rig damage or loss related to severe weather conditions caused by Gulf of Mexico hurricanes or windstorms and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our current liability insurance policies maintain coverage for Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm exposures, including removal of wreckage and debris, and have self retained interest (generally equivalent to a deductible) of $10.0 million per occurrence. We have established operational procedures designed to mitigate risk to our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season. In addition to procedures designed to better secure the drilling package on jackup rigs, improve jackup leg stability and increase the air gap to position the hull above waves, our procedures involve analysis of prospective drilling locations, which may include enhanced bottom surveys. These procedures may result in a decision to decline to operate on a customer designated location during hurricane season notwithstanding that the location, water depth and other standard operating conditions are within a rig's normal operating range. Our procedures and the associated regulatory requirements addressing Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit operations in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season may result in a loss or reduction of work for our rigs at certain customer drilling locations, with consequential reduction in rig utilization or day rates in the Gulf of Mexico. 14 Table of Contents OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES NUMEROUS OPERATING HAZARDS AND WE ARE NOT FULLY INSURED AGAINST ALL OF THESE HAZARDS. Contract drilling and offshore oil and gas operations in general are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • rig or other property damage or loss resulting from hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, collisions, groundings, blowouts, fires, explosions and other accidents or terrorism, • blowouts, fires, explosions and other loss of well control events causing damage to wells, reservoirs, production facilities and other properties and which may require wild well control, including drilling of relief wells, • craterings, punchthroughs or other events causing rigs to capsize, sink or otherwise incur significant damage or total loss, • extensive uncontrolled rig or well fires, blowouts, oil spills or other discharges of pollutants causing damage to the environment, • machinery breakdowns, equipment failures, personnel shortages, failure of subcontractors and vendors to perform or supply goods and services and other events causing the suspension or cancellation of drilling operations, and • unionization or similar collective actions by our employees or employees of subcontractors causing suspension of drilling operations or significant increases in operating costs. In addition to these risks to property and the environment, many of the hazards and risks associated with our operations, and accidents or other events resulting from such hazards and risks as well as routine operations, expose our personnel, as well as personnel of our customers, subcontractors, vendors and other third parties, to risk of personal injury or death. Although we currently maintain broad insurance coverage, subject to certain significant deductibles and levels of self-insurance or risk retention, it does not cover all types of losses and, in some situations such as rig loss or damage resulting from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm exposures, may not provide full coverage for losses or liabilities resulting from our operations. Except for windstorm coverage on our Gulf of Mexico rigs subsequent to July 1, 2006, which was placed on a limited basis, we have historically maintained insurance coverage for damage to or loss of our drilling rigs in amounts not less than the estimated fair market value thereof. However, in the event of total loss, such coverage is unlikely to be sufficient to recover the cost of a newly constructed replacement rig. Since we do not maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance, we are fully exposed to loss of drilling contract revenue resulting from rig damage or loss. We generally obtain contractual indemnification obligating our customers to protect and indemnify us for all or part of the liabilities resulting from pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells, reservoirs and other customer property, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and certain personnel injuries. Such indemnification protection may be qualified or limited, and may exclude certain perils or events or the application of local law. In some circumstances, we are unable to obtain indemnification protection for some or all of the risks generally assumed by our other customers, including risks and liabilities relating to environmental damage, well loss or damage, or wild well control. The inability to obtain such indemnification, the failure of a customer to meet indemnification obligations, or losses or liabilities resulting from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our contracts generally protect us from certain losses sustained as a result of our negligence. However, losses resulting from contracts that do not contain such protection could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Losses resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct may not be protected contractually by specific provision or by application of law, and our insurance may not provide adequate protection for such losses. 15 Table of Contents The cost of many of the types of insurance coverage maintained by us has increased significantly during recent years. In addition, insurance market conditions have resulted in retention of additional risk by us, primarily through higher insurance deductibles or self-insured retentions. Very few insurance underwriters offer certain types of insurance coverage we maintain, and there can be no assurance that any particular type of insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future, that we will not accept retention of additional risk through higher insurance deductibles, self-insurance risk retention or otherwise, or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. Insurance companies incurred substantial losses in the offshore drilling, exploration and production industries as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico during 2004 and 2005. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the levels of insurance coverage available for losses arising from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage and have dramatically increased the cost of such coverage. Upon renewal of our annual insurance policies effective July 1, 2007, we obtained $127.5 million of annual aggregate coverage for jackup rig hull and machinery losses arising from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage with a $50.0 million per occurrence deductible (these limits do not apply to our ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig as long as the rig takes action to evade the storm by moving off location according to established procedures). This amount of coverage is significantly less than our historical coverage. Our limited insurance coverage exposes us to a significant level of risk due to rig damage or loss related to severe weather conditions caused by Gulf of Mexico hurricanes or windstorms and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our current liability insurance policies maintain coverage for Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm exposures, including removal of wreckage and debris, and have self retained interest (generally equivalent to a deductible) of $10.0 million per occurrence. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS INVOLVE ADDITIONAL RISKS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH DOMESTIC OPERATIONS. A significant portion of our contract drilling operations are conducted in countries outside the U.S. Revenues from international operations as a percentage of our total revenues were 75% and 61% in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our international operations and our international shipyard rig construction and enhancement projects are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances, • expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our equipment, • expropriation or nationalization of a customer's property or drilling rights, • repudiation or nationalization of contracts, • assaults on property or personnel, • exchange restrictions, • currency fluctuations, • changes in the manner or rate of taxation, • limitations on the ability to repatriate income or capital to the United States, • changing local and international political conditions, and • international and domestic monetary policies. We historically have maintained insurance coverage and obtained contractual indemnities that protect us from some, but not all, of the risks associated with our non-U.S. operations such as nationalization, deprivation, confiscation, political and war risks. However, there can be no assurance that any particular type of contractual or insurance protection will be available in the future or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. In circumstances where we have insurance protection for some or all of the risks associated with non-U.S. operations, such insurance may be subject to cancelations on short notice and it is unlikely that we will be able to remove our rig or rigs from the affected area within the notice period. Accordingly, a significant event for which we are uninsured or underinsured, or for which we have not received a contractual indemnity from a customer, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to various tax laws and regulations in substantially all of the non-U.S. countries in which we operate or have a legal presence. We evaluate applicable tax laws and employ various business structures and operating strategies in non-U.S. countries to obtain the optimal level of taxation on our revenues, income, assets and personnel. Actions by international tax authorities that impact our business structures and operating strategies, such as changes to tax treaties, laws and regulations, or the interpretation or repeal of same, adverse rulings in connection with audits or otherwise, or other challenges, may substantially increase our tax expense. Our international operations also face the risk of fluctuating currency values, which can impact our revenues and operating costs. In addition, some of the countries in which we operate have occasionally enacted exchange controls. Historically, these risks have been limited by invoicing and receiving payment in U.S. dollars or freely convertible international currency and, to the extent possible, by limiting acceptance of foreign currency to amounts which approximate our expenditure requirements in such currencies. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such terms in the future. We also use foreign currency purchase options or futures contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency risk. We currently conduct contract drilling operations in certain countries that have experienced substantial fluctuations in the value of their currency compared to the U.S. dollar. Our drilling contracts generally stipulate payment wholly or substantially in U.S. dollars, which reduces the impact currency fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such payment terms in the future. A substantial portion of the costs and expenditures incurred by our international operations are settled in the local currencies of the countries in which we operate, exposing us to risks associated with fluctuation in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We use foreign currency purchase options or futures contracts to reduce this exposure, however, the relative weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the local currencies in these countries may increase our costs and expenditures. Our international operations are also subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling rigs. Governments in some non-U.S. countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of oil, gas and mineral concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration of oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries in their countries. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil or gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, government activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work performed by major international oil companies and may continue to do so. There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations in the future. COMPLIANCE WITH OR BREACH OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS CAN BE COSTLY AND COULD LIMIT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, pollution, contamination and hazardous waste disposal or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Laws and regulations specifically applicable to our business activities could impose significant liability on us for damages, clean-up costs, fines and penalties in the event of the occurrence of oil spills or similar discharges of pollutants or contaminants into the environment or improper disposal of hazardous waste generated in the course of our operations. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results and we have not experienced an accident that has exposed us to material liability for discharges of pollutants into the environment. However, there can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or accidents will not expose us to material liability in the future. 17 Table of Contents The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA 90"), as amended, and other federal statutes applicable to us and our operations, as well as similar state statutes in Texas, Louisiana and other coastal states, address oil spill prevention and control and significantly expand liability, fine and penalty exposure across many segments of the oil and gas industry. Such statutes and related regulations, both federal and state, impose a variety of obligations on us related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for resulting damages. For instance, OPA 90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil removal costs and a variety of fines, penalties and damages. A failure to comply with these statutes, including OPA 90, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement action, which may not be covered by contractual indemnification or insurance, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Events in recent years have heightened environmental concerns about the oil and gas industry generally. From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. To date, no proposals which would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation have been enacted into law. If laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation or impose environmental protection requirements that materially increase the cost of offshore drilling, exploration, development or production of oil and gas, we could be materially adversely affected. LAWS AND GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY ADD TO COSTS OR LIMIT OUR DRILLING ACTIVITY. Our operations are affected by political developments and by local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations that relate directly to the oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and natural gas exploration industry. Accordingly, we will be directly affected by the approval and adoption of laws and regulations limiting or curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental, safety and other policy reasons. Furthermore, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur substantial additional costs to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or significantly increasing our operating costs. OUR DRILLING RIG FLEET IS HEAVILY CONCENTRATED IN PREMIUM JACKUP RIGS, WHICH LEAVES US VULNERABLE TO RISKS RELATED TO LACK OF DIVERSIFICATION. The offshore contract drilling industry is generally divided into two broad markets: deepwater and shallow water drilling. These broad markets are generally divided into smaller sub-markets based upon various factors, including type of drilling rig. The primary types of drilling rigs include jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs, drill ships, platform rigs, barge rigs and submersible rigs. While these market segments are affected by common characteristics, they each have separate market conditions that affect the demand and rates for drilling equipment in that segment. We currently have 44 jackup rigs, one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig and one barge rig. Additionally, we have four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs under construction. Our drilling fleet is heavily concentrated in the premium jackup rig market. If the market for premium jackup rigs should decline relative to the markets for other drilling rig types, our operating results could be more adversely affected relative to our competitors with drilling fleets that are not concentrated in premium jackup rigs. 18 Table of Contents CHANGES IN LAWS, EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. They could also be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. TERRORIST ATTACKS AND MILITARY ACTION COULD RESULT IN A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Terrorist acts or acts of war may cause damage to or disruption of our United States or international operations, employees, property and equipment, or customers, suppliers and subcontractors, which could significantly impact our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Terrorist acts create many economic and political uncertainties and the potential for future terrorist acts, the national and international responses to terrorism and other acts of war or hostility, could create many economic and political uncertainties, including an impact upon oil and gas drilling, exploration and development. This could adversely affect our business in ways that cannot readily be determined. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD AFFECT US ADVERSELY. We are involved in various litigation, claims, disputes and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, many of which are uninsured and relate to commercial, employment or regulatory activities. We also are conducting an internal investigation relating to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which focuses on activities related to our former operations in Nigeria and the associated accounting entries and internal controls. Although we cannot accurately predict the outcome of our litigation, claims, disputes, regulatory proceedings and investigations, or the amount or impact of any associated liability or other sanctions, these matters could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Table of Contents 