Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results and/or cash flows. THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS LARGELY DEPENDS ON THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY IN THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY WHICH CAN BE SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY VOLATILE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, may significantly affect the level of drilling activity. An actual decline, or the perceived risk of a decline, in oil and/or natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of activity or spending, in which case demand for our services may decline and revenues may be adversely affected through lower rig utilization and/or lower day rates. Worldwide military, political, environmental and economic events also contribute to oil and natural gas price volatility. Numerous other factors may affect oil and natural gas prices and the level of demand for our services, including: • demand for oil and natural gas, • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing, • the level of production by non-OPEC countries, • U.S. and non-U.S. tax policy, • laws and government regulations that limit, restrict or prohibit exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions, • advances in exploration and development technology, • disruption to exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions and the risk thereof, • the worldwide military or political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East or geographic areas in which we operate, or acts of terrorism, and • global economic conditions. 16 THE OFFSHORE CONTRACT DRILLING INDUSTRY HISTORICALLY HAS BEEN CYCLICAL, WITH PERIODS OF LOW DEMAND AND EXCESS RIG AVAILABILITY THAT COULD RESULT IN ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR BUSINESS. Financial operating results in the offshore contract drilling industry historically have been very cyclical and primarily are related to the demand for drilling rigs and the available supply of drilling rigs. Demand for rigs is directly related to the regional and worldwide levels of offshore exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which is beyond our control. Offshore exploration and development spending may fluctuate substantially from year-to-year and from region-to-region. The supply of offshore drilling rigs has increased in recent years, however, new rigs require substantial capital investment and a long period of time to construct. There are over 75 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order or under construction with delivery expected by the end of 2013. More than half of these rigs are scheduled for delivery during 2011 representing an approximate 6% increase in the total worldwide fleet of jackups and semisubmersible rigs. There are no assurances that the market in general or a geographic region in particular will be able to fully absorb the supply of new rigs in future periods. The increase in supply of offshore drilling rigs during 2011 and future periods could result in an oversupply of offshore drilling rigs and could cause a decline in utilization and/or day rates, a situation which could be exacerbated by a decline in demand for drilling rigs. Lower utilization and/or day rates in one or more of the regions in which we operate could adversely affect our revenues, utilization and profitability. Certain events, such as limited availability or non-availability of insurance for certain perils in some geographic areas, rig loss or damage due to hurricanes, blowouts, craterings, punchthroughs and other operational events, may impact the supply of rigs in a particular market and cause rapid fluctuations in utilization and day rates. Future periods of reduced demand and/or excess rig supply may require us to idle additional rigs or enter into lower day rate contracts or contracts with less favorable terms. There can be no assurance that the current demand for drilling rigs will not decline in future periods. A decline in demand for drilling rigs or an increase in drilling rig supply could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and cash flows. 17 OUR OFFSHORE DRILLING OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED BY THE BP MACONDO WELL INCIDENT AND THE RESULTING CHANGES IN REGULATION OF OFFSHORE OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. In May 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior implemented a six-month moratorium/suspension on certain drilling activities in water depths greater than 500 feet in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The U.S. Department of the Interior subsequently issued NTLs implementing additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, imposed additional requirements with respect to development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and has delayed the approval of applications to drill in both deepwater and shallow-water areas. On July 12, 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior issued a revised moratorium/suspension on drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which was lifted on October 12, 2010 after the adoption on September 30, 2010 of new regulations relating to the design of wells and testing of the integrity of wellbores, the use of drilling fluids, the functionality and testing of well control equipment, including third-party inspections, minimum requirements for personnel, blowout preventers and other safety regulations. As a condition to lifting of the moratorium/suspension, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (the “BOEM”) was directed to require that each operator demonstrate that it has in place written and enforceable commitments that ensure that containment resources are available promptly in the event of a blowout and that the Chief Executive Officer of each operator certify to the BOEM that the operator has complied with applicable regulations. Before deepwater drilling is resumed, the BOEM intends to conduct inspections of each deepwater drilling operation for compliance with regulations, including but not limited to the testing of blowout preventers. It is unclear when these requirements will be satisfied, due in part to the limited staffing of the BOEM. Certain of our drilling rigs currently in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico have been or may be further affected by the regulatory developments and other actions that have or may be imposed by the U.S. Department of the Interior, including the regulations issued on September 30, 2010. The moratoriums/suspensions (which have been lifted), related NTLs, delays in processing drilling permits and other actions are being challenged in litigation by Ensco and others. Ensco rig utilization and day rates have been negatively influenced due to regulatory requirements and delays in our customers’ ability to secure permits. Current or future NTLs or other directives and regulations may further impact our customers' ability to obtain permits and commence or continue deep or shallow water operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We have filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana to seek relief from these actions which we believe violate the U.S. Administrative Procedure Act and the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act. We are not able to predict the outcome of these legal proceedings, whether enforcement of any new actual or de facto moratorium/suspension and other related restrictions and delays will be enjoined, or whether the U.S. Department of the Interior will seek to implement additional restrictions on or prohibitions of drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. We have nine rigs under contract in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, including three ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs. Our customers may seek to move rigs to locations outside the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, perform activities permitted under the enhanced safety requirements or attempt to terminate our contracts pursuant to their respective force majeure or other provisions. At this time, we cannot predict the impact of the BP Macondo well incident and resulting changes in the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity on our operations or contracts, the extent to which drilling operations subsequent to the moratorium period will be affected, the extent to which the issuance of permits for new or continued drilling will be delayed, the effect on the cost or availability of relevant insurance coverage, the effect on the demand for our services in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico or what actions may be taken by our customers, other industry participants or the U.S. or other governments in response to the incident. Future legislative or regulatory enactments may impose new requirements for well control and blowout prevention equipment that could increase our costs and cause delays in our operations due to unavailability of associated equipment. Prolonged actual or de facto delays, moratoria or suspensions of drilling activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and associated new regulatory, legislative or permitting requirements in the U.S. or elsewhere, including laws and regulations that have or may impose increased financial responsibility and oil spill abatement contingency plan capability requirements, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 18 WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES IF OUR CUSTOMERS TERMINATE OR SEEK TO RENEGOTIATE OUR CONTRACTS, IF OPERATIONS ARE SUSPENDED OR INTERRUPTED OR IF A RIG BECOMES A TOTAL LOSS. Our drilling contracts often are subject to termination without cause upon specific notice by the customer. Although contracts may require the customer to pay an early termination payment in the event of a termination for convenience (without cause), such payment may not fully compensate for the loss of the contract and some of our contracts permit termination by the customer without an early termination payment. In periods of rapid market downturn, our customers may not honor the terms of existing contracts (including contracts for new rigs under construction), may terminate contracts or may seek to renegotiate contract day rates and terms to conform with depressed market conditions. Drilling contracts customarily specify automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of a total loss of the drilling rig and often include provisions addressing termination rights or reduction or cessation of day rates if operations are suspended or interrupted for extended periods due to breakdown of major rig equipment, unsatisfactory performance, "force majeure" events beyond the control of either party or other specified conditions. Our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by early termination of contracts, contract renegotiations or cessation of day rates while operations are suspended. RIG CONSTRUCTION, UPGRADE AND ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS, INCLUDING DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS. THE RISKS ARE CONCENTRATED BECAUSE OUR THREE ULTRA-DEEPWATER SEMISUBMERSIBLE RIGS AND TWO ULTRA-HIGH SPECIFICATION HARSH ENVIRONMENT JACKUP RIGS CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION ARE AT A SINGLE SHIPYARD IN SINGAPORE. THESE RIGS DO NOT HAVE DRILLING CONTRACTS. There are over 75 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order or under construction with expected delivery dates through 2013. As a result, shipyards and third-party equipment vendors are under significant resource constraints to meet delivery obligations. Such constraints may lead to substantial delivery and commissioning delays and/or equipment failures and/or quality deficiencies. Furthermore, new drilling rigs may face start-up or other operational complications following completion of construction work or other unexpected difficulties including equipment failures, design or engineering problems that could result in significant downtime at reduced or zero day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. We currently have three ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and two ultra-high specification harsh environment jackup rigs under construction. In addition, we may construct additional rigs and continue to upgrade the capability and extend the service lives of our existing rigs. Rig construction, upgrade, life extension and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • failure of third-party equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, • delays in equipment deliveries or shipyard construction, • shortages of materials or skilled labor, • damage to shipyard facilities or construction work in progress, including damage resulting from fire, explosion, flooding, severe weather or terrorism, • unforeseen design or engineering problems, • unanticipated actual or purported change orders, • strikes, labor disputes or work stoppages, • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard while constructing, upgrading, refurbishing or repairing a rig or rigs, • unanticipated cost increases, • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations impacting overall cost, • inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals, • claims of force majeure events, and • additional risks inherent to shipyard projects in a non-U.S. location. 19 Our risks are concentrated because our three ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and two ultra-high specification harsh environment jackup rigs currently under construction are at a single shipyard in Singapore. Although based on the design of ENSCO 7500 which has operated without significant downtime since its delivery in 2000, the three ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and the recently delivered ENSCO 8500, ENSCO 8501, ENSCO 8502 and ENSCO 8503 have a common risk of unforeseen design or engineering problems. ENSCO 8504, ENSCO 8505, ENSCO 8506 and our two ultra-high specification harsh environment jackup rigs have not secured drilling contracts upon completion of their construction. These rigs are scheduled to be delivered during the third quarter of 2011, first and second half of 2012 and first and second half of 2013, respectively. There is no assurance that we will secure drilling contracts for these rigs or that the drilling contracts we may be able to secure will be based upon rates and terms that will provide a reasonable rate of return on these investments. Our failure to secure contractual commitments for these rigs at rates and terms that result in a reasonable return upon completion of construction may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. If we are able to secure drilling contracts prior to completion, we will be exposed to the risk of delays that could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contracts and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. DETERIORATION OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY AND/OR A DECLINE IN OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES COULD CAUSE OUR CUSTOMERS TO REDUCE SPENDING ON EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT DRILLING. THESE CONDITIONS COULD ALSO CAUSE OUR CUSTOMERS AND/OR VENDORS TO FAIL TO FULFILL THEIR COMMITMENTS AND/OR FUND FUTURE OPERATIONS AND OBLIGATIONS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling activity. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, whether caused by economic conditions, international or national climate change regulations or other factors, could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Disruption in the capital markets could also cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Historically, when drilling activity and spending decline, utilization and day rates also decline and drilling may be reduced or discontinued, resulting in an oversupply of drilling rigs. The oversupply of drilling rigs could be exacerbated by the entry of newbuild rigs into the market. When idled or stacked, drilling rigs do not earn revenues, but continue to require cash expenditures for crews, fuel, insurance, berthing and associated items. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, together with a deterioration of the global economy, could substantially reduce demand for drilling rigs and adversely affect our financial position, operating results and cash flows. WE MAY INCUR ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AS A RESULT OF DECLINING DEMAND FOR OFFSHORE DRILLING RIGS. We evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment, primarily our drilling rigs, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such rigs may not be recoverable. The offshore drilling industry historically has been highly cyclical, and it is not unusual for rigs to be unutilized or underutilized for significant periods of time and subsequently resume full or near full utilization when business cycles change. Likewise, during periods of supply and demand imbalance, rigs are frequently contracted at or near cash break-even rates for extended periods of time until day rates increase when demand comes back into balance with supply. However, if the global economy were to deteriorate and/or the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, impairment charges may occur with respect to specific individual rigs, groups of rigs, such as a specific type of drilling rig, or rigs in a certain geographic location. 20 We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate each unit's fair value as of the testing date. In most instances, our calculation of the fair value of our reporting units is based on estimates of future discounted cash flows to be generated by our drilling rigs, which reflect management's judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, as well as future industry conditions and operations, including expected utilization, day rates, expense levels, capital requirements and terminal values for each of our rigs. If the aggregate fair value of our reporting units exceeds our market capitalization, we evaluate the reasonableness of the implied control premium. If we determine the implied control premium is not reasonable, we adjust the discount rate in our discounted cash flow model and reduce the estimated fair values of our reporting units. If the global economy were to deteriorate and the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, our expectations of future cash flows may decline and could ultimately result in a goodwill impairment. Additionally, a significant decline in the market value of our shares could result in a goodwill impairment. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF CERTAIN CUSTOMERS CEASE TO DO BUSINESS WITH US. We provide our services to major international, government-owned and independent oil and gas companies. During 2010, our five largest customers accounted for 43% of consolidated revenues in the aggregate, with our two largest customers representing 25%. Our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if a major customer terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts with us, requires renegotiation of our contracts or declines to award new contracts to us. FAILURE TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN SKILLED PERSONNEL COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. We require skilled personnel to operate our drilling rigs and to provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor has intensified as additional rigs are added to the worldwide fleet. There are over 75 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order or under construction with delivery expected by the end of 2013, more than half of which are scheduled for delivery during 2011. These rigs will require new skilled and other personnel to operate. In periods of high utilization, it is more difficult and costly to recruit and retain qualified employees. Competition for such personnel could increase our future operating expenses, with a resulting reduction in net income, or impact our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. Notwithstanding current global economic conditions, we may be required to maintain or increase existing levels of compensation to retain our skilled workforce. Much of the skilled workforce is nearing retirement age, which may impact the availability of skilled personnel. We also are subject to potential further unionization of our labor force or legislative or regulatory action that may impact working conditions, paid time off or other conditions of employment. If such labor trends continue, they could further increase our costs or limit our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. OUR DRILLING CONTRACTS WITH NATIONAL OIL COMPANIES EXPOSE US TO GREATER RISKS THAN WE NORMALLY ASSUME. We currently have 12 jackup rigs contracted with national oil companies. The terms of these non-U.S. contracts are often non-negotiable and may expose us to greater commercial, political and operational risks than we assume in other contracts such as exposure to greater environmental liability, the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, under certain conditions that may not provide us an early termination payment, collection risks and political risks. While we believe that the financial, commercial and risk allocation terms of these contracts and our operating safeguards mitigate these risks, we can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. 21 OUR DRILLING RIG FLEET IS CONCENTRATED IN PREMIUM JACKUP RIGS, WHICH LEAVES US VULNERABLE TO RISKS RELATED TO LACK OF DIVERSIFICATION. The offshore contract drilling industry is generally divided into two broad markets: deepwater and shallow water drilling. These broad markets are generally divided into smaller sub-markets based upon various factors, including the type of drilling rig. The primary types of drilling rigs include jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs, drillships, platform rigs, barge rigs and submersible rigs. While all drilling rigs are affected by general economic and industry conditions, each type of drilling rig can be affected differently by changes in demand. We currently have 40 jackup rigs, five ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and one barge rig. Additionally, we have three ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and two ultra-high specification harsh environment jackup rigs under construction. Our drilling rig fleet is concentrated in premium jackup rigs. If the market for premium jackup rigs should decline relative to the markets for other drilling rig types, our operating results could be more adversely affected relative to our competitors with drilling fleets that are less concentrated in premium jackup rigs. OUR NON-U.S. OPERATIONS INVOLVE ADDITIONAL RISKS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH U.S. OPERATIONS. Revenues from non-U.S. operations were 75%, 86% and 79% of our total revenues during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our non-U.S. operations and shipyard rig construction and enhancement projects are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances, • expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our equipment, • expropriation or nationalization of a customer's property or drilling rights, • repudiation or nationalization of contracts, • assaults on property or personnel, • piracy, kidnapping and extortion demands, • exchange restrictions, • currency fluctuations, • changes in the manner or rate of taxation, • limitations on our ability to recover amounts due, • increased risk of government and vendor/supplier corruption, • changes in political conditions, and • changes in monetary policies. 22 We historically have maintained insurance coverage and obtained contractual indemnities that protect us from some, but not all, of the risks associated with our non-U.S. operations such as nationalization, deprivation, confiscation, political and war risks. However, there can be no assurance that any particular type of contractual or insurance protection will be available in the future or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. Moreover, we may initiate a self-insurance program through one or more captive insurance subsidiaries. In circumstances where we have insurance protection for some or all of the risks associated with non-U.S. operations, such insurance may be subject to cancellation on short notice, and it is unlikely that we will be able to remove our rig or rigs from the affected area within the notice period. Accordingly, a significant event for which we are uninsured, underinsured or self-insured, or for which we have not received an enforceable contractual indemnity from a customer, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to various tax laws and regulations in substantially all countries in which we operate or have a legal presence. We evaluate applicable tax laws and employ various business structures and operating strategies to obtain the optimal level of taxation on our revenues, income, assets and personnel. Actions by tax authorities that impact our business structures and operating strategies, such as changes to tax treaties, laws and regulations, or the interpretation or repeal of same, adverse rulings in connection with audits or otherwise, or other challenges may substantially increase our tax expense. Our non-U.S. operations also face the risk of fluctuating currency values, which can impact our revenues, operating costs and capital expenditures. We currently conduct contract drilling operations in certain countries that have experienced substantial fluctuations in the value of their currency compared to the U.S. dollar. In addition, some of the countries in which we operate have occasionally enacted exchange controls. Historically, these risks have been limited by invoicing and receiving payment in U.S. dollars (our functional currency) or freely convertible currency and, to the extent possible, by limiting acceptance of foreign currency to amounts which approximate our expenditure requirements in such currencies. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such terms in the future. A portion of the costs and expenditures incurred by our non-U.S. operations, including a portion of the construction payments for the ENSCO 8500 Series® rigs, are settled in local currencies, exposing us to risks associated with fluctuation in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce this exposure. However, the relative weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the local currencies in these countries may increase our costs and expenditures. Our non-U.S. operations are also subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the operation of drilling rigs and the requirement for equipment thereon. Governments in some non-U.S. countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of oil, natural gas and mineral concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration of oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry in their countries. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil and/or natural gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, government activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work performed by major international oil companies and may continue to do so. Moreover, certain countries accord preferential treatment to local contractors or joint ventures, which can place us at a competitive disadvantage. There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or activities will not have a material adverse effect on our future operations. 23 THE POTENTIAL FOR GULF OF MEXICO HURRICANE RELATED WINDSTORM DAMAGE OR LIABILITIES COULD RESULT IN UNINSURED LOSSES AND MAY CAUSE US TO ALTER OUR OPERATING PROCEDURES DURING HURRICANE SEASON, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, and we have a larger concentration of jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico than most of our competitors. We currently have nine jackup rigs and three ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could result in rig loss or damage, termination of drilling contracts on lost or severely damaged rigs or curtailment of operations on damaged drilling rigs with reduced or suspended day rates for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our drilling rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers' platforms and other related facilities in the area. Our drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico have been impacted by hurricanes, including the total loss of one jackup rig during 2004, one platform rig during 2005 and one jackup rig during 2008, with associated loss of contract revenues and potential liabilities. Insurance companies incurred substantial losses in the offshore drilling, exploration and production industries as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico during 2004, 2005 and 2008. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the nature and amount of insurance coverage available for losses arising from named tropical storm or hurricane damage in the Gulf of Mexico ("windstorm damage") and have dramatically increased the cost of available windstorm coverage. The tight insurance market not only applies to coverage related to Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage or loss of our drilling rigs, but also impacts coverage for potential liabilities to third parties associated with property damage, personal injury or death and environmental liabilities as well as coverage for removal of wreckage and debris associated with hurricane losses. We have no assurance that the tight insurance market for windstorm damage, liabilities and removal of wreckage and debris will not continue into the foreseeable future. Upon renewal of our annual insurance policies effective July 1, 2010, we obtained $450.0 million of annual coverage for ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig hull and machinery losses arising from Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage with a $50.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention (deductible). However, due to the significant premium, high self-insured retention and limited coverage, we decided not to purchase windstorm insurance for our jackup rigs remaining in the Gulf of Mexico. Accordingly, we have retained the risk for loss or damage of our nine jackup rigs remaining in the Gulf of Mexico arising out of windstorm damage. Our current liability insurance policies only provide coverage for Gulf of Mexico windstorm exposures for removal of wreckage and debris in excess of $50.0 million per occurrence as respects both our jackup and ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig operations and have an annual aggregate limit of $450.0 million. Our limited windstorm insurance coverage exposes us to a significant level of risk due to jackup rig damage or loss related to severe weather conditions caused by Gulf of Mexico hurricanes. We have established operational procedures designed to mitigate risk to our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season. In addition to procedures designed to better secure the drilling package on jackup rigs, improve jackup leg stability and increase the air gap to position the hull above waves, our procedures involve analysis of prospective drilling locations, which may include enhanced bottom surveys. These procedures may result in a decision to decline to operate on a customer designated location during hurricane season notwithstanding that the location, water depth and other standard operating conditions are within a rig's normal operating range. Our procedures and the associated regulatory requirements addressing Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit operations in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season, coupled with our decision to retain (self-insure) certain windstorm related risks, may result in a significant reduction in the utilization of our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. 24 As noted above, we have a $50.0 million per occurrence deductible for windstorm loss or damage to our ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs in the Gulf of Mexico and have elected not to purchase loss or damage insurance coverage for our nine jackup rigs in the area. Moreover, we have retained the risk for the first $50.0 million of liability exposure for removal of wreckage and debris resulting from windstorm related exposures associated with our rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. These and other retained exposures for property loss or damage and wreckage and debris removal or other liabilities associated with Gulf of Mexico hurricanes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows if we sustain significant uninsured or underinsured losses or liabilities as a result of Gulf of Mexico hurricanes. THE LOSS OF ENSCO 74 MAY EXPOSE US TO COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH REMOVAL OF WRECKAGE AND DEBRIS, LIABILITIES FOR PROPERTY LOSS OR DAMAGE, PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH OR ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES THAT MAY NOT BE FULLY RECOVERABLE UNDER OUR INSURANCE OR CONTRACTUAL INDEMNITIES. In September 2008, ENSCO 74 was lost as a result of Hurricane Ike in the Gulf of Mexico. Portions of its legs remained underwater adjacent to the customer's platform, and we conducted extensive aerial and sonar reconnaissance but did not locate the rig hull. In March 2009, the sunken rig hull of ENSCO 74 was located approximately 95 miles from the original drilling location when it was struck by an oil tanker. As an interim measure, the wreckage was appropriately marked, and the U.S. Coast Guard issued a Notice to Mariners. During the fourth quarter of 2010, wreck removal operations on the sunken rig hull of ENSCO 74 were completed. As of December 31, 2010, wreckage and debris removal costs had been incurred and paid by Ensco totaling $26.8 million related to removal of the hull, substantially all of which has been recovered through insurance without any additional retention. We are involved in civil litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas in which the owners of the tanker SKS Satilla are seeking monetary damages of $10.0 million for losses incurred when the tanker struck the sunken hull of ENSCO 74. We are involved in civil litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas in which the owner of a pipeline, High Island Offshore System, LLC, alleges that ENSCO 74 damaged the pipeline in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike and is seeking damages for the cost of repairs and business interruption in excess of $26.0 million. We also are involved in civil litigation in the Fifteenth Judicial Court for the Parish of Lafayette and in the Nineteenth Judicial Court for the Parish of Baton Rouge, State of Louisiana in which the owner of a pipeline, Sea Robin Pipeline Company, LLC, is seeking unspecified damages in relation to the cost of repairing damage to the pipeline, loss of revenues, survey and other damages allegedly caused by ENSCO 74 in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. The owners of two other subsea pipelines presented claims in the exoneration or limitation of liability proceedings we filed in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas as described below. The claims were filed on behalf of Stingray Pipeline Company, LLC, and Tennessee Gas Pipeline seeking monetary damages incurred by reason of damage to pipelines allegedly caused by ENSCO 74 in the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. The Stingray claim is in the amount of $14.0 million, and the Tennessee Gas Pipeline claim is for unspecified damages. 25 We filed a petition for exoneration or limitation of liability under U.S. admiralty and maritime law in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas on September 2, 2009. The petition seeks exoneration from or limitation of liability for any and all injury, loss or damage caused, occasioned or occurred in relation to the ENSCO 74 loss in September 2008. The exoneration/limitation proceedings currently includes the SKS Satilla claim and the four pipeline claims described above, which effectively supersedes their prior civil litigation filings. The matter has been scheduled for trial in March 2012. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the loss of ENSCO 74 and associated contingencies. We are exposed to costs associated with removal of the ENSCO 74 legs that remain underwater adjacent to the customer's platform, in addition to the removal of related debris. Although we expect the cost of removal of the leg sections and related debris to be covered by available insurance and contractual indemnification, we may not be fully protected from such costs, liability or exposure (without any additional deductible or self-insured retention). Our liability insurance may not fully protect us from cost, liability or exposure associated with the loss of ENSCO 74. As respects liabilities to third-parties, including the aforementioned tanker and pipeline claims, our applicable insurance is subject to a $10.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention and an annual aggregate policy limit of $500.0 million. We believe all liabilities associated with the ENSCO 74 loss during Hurricane Ike resulted from a single occurrence under the terms of the applicable insurance policies. However, legal counsel for certain liability underwriters have asserted that the liability claims arise from separate occurrences. In the event of multiple occurrences, the self-insured retention is $15.0 million for two occurrences and $1.0 million for each occurrence thereafter. OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES NUMEROUS OPERATING HAZARDS, AND WE ARE NOT FULLY INSURED AGAINST ALL OPERATING HAZARDS. Contract drilling and offshore oil and gas operations in general are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • rig or other property damage, liability or loss, including removal of wreckage or debris, resulting from hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, collisions, groundings, blowouts, fires, explosions and other accidents or terrorism, • blowouts, fires, explosions and other loss of well control events causing damage to wells, reservoirs, production facilities and other properties and which may require wild well control, including drilling of relief wells, • craterings, punchthroughs or other events causing rigs to capsize, sink or otherwise incur significant damage or total loss, • extensive uncontrolled rig or well fires, blowouts, oil spills or other discharges of pollutants causing damage to the environment, • machinery breakdowns, equipment failures, personnel shortages, failure of subcontractors and vendors to perform or supply goods and services and other events causing the suspension or cancellation of drilling operations, and • unionization or similar collective actions by our employees or employees of subcontractors causing suspension of drilling operations or significant increases in operating costs. In addition to these risks to property and the environment, many of the hazards and risks associated with our operations and accidents or other events resulting from such hazards and risks, as well as our routine operations, expose our personnel, as well as personnel of our customers, subcontractors, vendors and other third-parties, to the risk of personal injury or death. Although we currently maintain broad insurance coverage, subject to certain significant deductibles and levels of self-insurance or risk retention, it does not cover all types of losses and in some situations, such as rig loss or damage resulting from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm exposures, may not provide coverage for damages, losses or liabilities resulting from our operations in whole or in part. Except for windstorm coverage on our Gulf of Mexico rigs subsequent to July 1, 2006, which was placed on a limited coverage basis, we historically have maintained insurance coverage for damage to or loss of our drilling rigs in amounts not less than the estimated fair market value thereof. Even when insured, we have encountered circumstances in which insurance companies have issued reservations of rights or denied coverage which has, in certain circumstances, resulted in litigation. However, in the event of total loss, such coverage is unlikely to be sufficient to recover the cost of a newly-constructed replacement rig. Since we do not maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance, we are fully exposed to loss of contract drilling revenues resulting from rig loss or damage. 26 We generally obtain contractual indemnification obligating our customers to protect and indemnify us for all or part of the liabilities resulting from pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells, reservoirs and other customer property, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and certain non-rig crew personnel injuries. Such indemnification protection may be qualified or limited and may exclude certain perils, causes or events or the application of local law. In some circumstances, we are unable to obtain indemnification protection for some or all of the risks generally assumed by our customers, including risks and liabilities relating to environmental damage or loss, well loss or damage or wild well control. The inability to obtain such indemnification or the failure of a customer to meet indemnification obligations or losses or liabilities resulting from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our contracts generally protect us in whole or part from certain losses sustained as a result of our negligence, most frequently as respects pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells or reservoirs, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and consequential damages. However, losses resulting from contracts that do not contain such protection could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Losses resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct may not be protected contractually by specific provision or by application of law, and our insurance may not provide adequate protection for such losses. Moreover, we may not maintain the same types or levels of insurance in the future which would expose us to additional uninsured losses and liabilities. COMPLIANCE WITH OR BREACH OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS CAN BE COSTLY AND COULD LIMIT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, pollution, contamination and hazardous waste disposal or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Environmental laws and regulations specifically applicable to our business activities could impose significant liability on us for damages, clean-up costs, fines and penalties in the event of oil spills or similar discharges of pollutants or contaminants into the environment or improper disposal of hazardous waste generated in the course of our operations. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, and we have not experienced an accident that has exposed us to material liability arising out of or relating to discharges of pollutants into the environment. However, the legislative and regulatory response to the BP Macondo well incident could substantially increase our customers' liabilities in respect of oil spills and also could increase our liabilities. In addition to potential increased liabilities, such legislative or regulatory action could impose increased financial, insurance or other requirements that may adversely impact the entire offshore drilling industry. The International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation, the U.K. Merchant Shipping Act 1995, the U.K. Merchant Shipping (Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation Convention) Regulations 1998 and other related legislation and regulations and OPA 90 and other U.S. federal statutes applicable to us and our operations, as well as similar statutes in Texas, Louisiana, other coastal states and other non-U.S. jurisdictions, address oil spill prevention and control and significantly expand liability, fine and penalty exposure across many segments of the oil and gas industry. Such statutes and related regulations impose a variety of obligations on us related to the prevention of oil spills, disposal of waste and liability for resulting damages. For instance, OPA 90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil removal costs as well as a variety of fines, penalties and damages. Failure to comply with these statutes and regulations, including OPA 90, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement action, which may not be covered by contractual indemnification or insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Events in recent years, including the BP Macondo well incident, have heightened governmental and environmental concerns about the oil and gas industry. From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. We are adversely affected by restrictions on drilling in certain areas of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, including the conditions for lifting the recent moratorium/suspension in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the adoption of associated new safety requirements and policies regarding the approval of drilling permits, restrictions on development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and associated NTLs that have and may further impact our operations. If new laws are enacted or other government action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation or impose environmental protection requirements that materially increase the liabilities, financial requirements or operating or equipment costs associated with offshore drilling, exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas, our financial position, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 27 LAWS AND GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY ADD TO COSTS, LIMIT OUR DRILLING ACTIVITY OR REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR DRILLING SERVICES. Our operations are affected by political developments and by laws and regulations that relate directly to the oil and gas industry, including initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The offshore contract drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas industry. Accordingly, we will be directly affected by the approval and adoption of laws and regulations limiting or curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental, safety and other policy reasons. We may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could reduce the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and our drilling services. Governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our drilling services. Furthermore, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur substantial additional costs to comply with new governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that legislative and regulatory activity could adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or significantly increasing our operating costs. TERRORIST ATTACKS, PIRACY AND MILITARY ACTION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Terrorist acts, piracy, kidnapping, extortion or acts of war may cause damage to or disruption of our operations, employees, property and equipment or customers, suppliers and subcontractors, which may not be covered by insurance or an enforceable contractual indemnity and could significantly impact our financial position, operating results and cash flows. These acts create many economic and political uncertainties and the potential for future similar acts, the national and international responses and other acts of war or hostility could create many economic and political uncertainties, including an impact upon oil and natural gas drilling, exploration and development. This could adversely affect our business in ways that cannot readily be determined. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD AFFECT US ADVERSELY. We are involved in litigation, including various claims, disputes and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, many of which are uninsured and relate to commercial, employment or regulatory activities. We also are concluding an internal investigation relating to compliance with the anti-bribery, recordkeeping and accounting provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") that focuses on activities related to our former operations in Nigeria and the associated accounting entries and internal accounting controls and have self-reported to the appropriate U.S. government authorities. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our legal proceedings and other contingent liabilities. Although we cannot accurately predict the outcome of our litigation, claims, disputes, regulatory proceedings and investigations or the amount or impact of any associated liability or other sanctions, these matters could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows. WE HAVE INVESTED A PORTION OF OUR CASH IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES AND WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO HOLD THEM INDEFINITELY DUE TO AN ILLIQUID MARKET. As of December 31, 2010, we held $50.1 million (par value) of auction rate securities. Auctions for most of our auction rate securities began to fail in February 2008, as there were more sellers than buyers at scheduled interest rate auctions and parties desiring to sell their auction rate securities were unable to do so. When an auction fails, the interest rate is adjusted according to the provisions of the associated security agreement. The majority of our auction rate securities are currently rated Aaa by Moody's, AAA by Standard & Poor's and/or AAA by Fitch. All of our auction rate securities were issued by state agencies and are supported by student loans for which repayment is substantially guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. 28 Auction failures and the resulting lack of liquidity have affected the entire auction rate securities market, and we are currently unable to determine whether these conditions will continue for an extended duration. While it is estimated that the majority of the auction rate securities market has been refinanced, student loan supported auction rate securities remain mostly constrained and illiquid. Although $16.7 million, $5.5 million and $6.0 million of our auction rate securities were redeemed at par value during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, we are currently unable to determine whether issuers of our auction rate securities will attempt and/or be able to refinance. We are also unable to determine if alternative markets that provide orderly purchases and sales of auction rate securities will develop. Pursuant to regulatory settlements, several major brokerage firms have offered to repurchase auction rate securities from retail investors, charities and small businesses, and use best efforts to provide liquidity to institutional investors within the next several years. However, we are currently unable to determine whether these brokerage firms will be able to comply with the terms of their regulatory settlements. Moreover, current global economic conditions may impede auction rate security repurchases. Although we acquired our auction rate securities with the intention of selling them in the near-term, we do not currently expect to experience liquidity problems or alter any business plans if we maintain our investment in these securities indefinitely. Our auction rate securities have final maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2047. Risks Related to the Proposed Merger with Pride Our expectations regarding our business may be impacted by the following risk factors related to the pending merger with Pride: FAILURE TO COMPLETE THE MERGER WITH PRIDE COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR SHARE PRICE AND OUR FUTURE BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS. Completion of the merger with Pride is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by our shareholders and the stockholders of Pride is not obtained or that certain other closing conditions are not satisfied. If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and will be subject to several risks, including the following: • having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger without receiving the benefits of the merger including, in certain circumstances, a termination fee of up to $260.0 million to Pride; • the attention of our management will have been diverted to the merger instead of on our operations and pursuit of other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; and • resulting negative customer perception could adversely affect our ability to compete for, or to obtain, new and renewal business in the marketplace. 29 WE WILL INCUR SUBSTANTIAL TRANSACTION AND MERGER-RELATED COSTS IN CONNECTION WITH THE MERGER AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE DILUTED BY THE MERGER. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction and merger-related costs associated with completing the merger with Pride, combining the operations of the two companies and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of Ensco and Pride. Although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near-term, or at all. IF THE MERGER IS COMPLETED, WE WILL BE SUBJECT TO ADDITIONAL RISKS. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from combining the businesses of Ensco and Pride. However, to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate the operations and personnel of Pride into our business, including the expected relocation of our U.S. headquarters to Houston from Dallas. If we are not able to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Because Ensco and Pride have operated independently and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate independently, it is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees or the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Our results of operations after the merger could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company’s operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur prior to the closing of the merger. Further, the size of the merger may make integration difficult, expensive and disruptive, adversely affecting our operating results after the merger. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. In addition, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs or realize other efficiencies from integrating the businesses to offset part or all of the transaction and merger-related costs that have and will be incurred. Our performance following the merger could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain certain key employees. The loss of key personnel may also negatively impact the productivity and profitability of certain projects and can result in lost rig contracting opportunities during periods of unanticipated demand. Our inability to bid on new and attractive projects, or maintain productivity and profitability on existing projects, including those developed by Pride, due to the loss of key employees could negatively affect our profitability and operating results. In addition, the approval or regulatory requirements of certain government or regulatory agencies in connection with the merger could contain terms, conditions, or restrictions, such as the divestiture of assets, that would be detrimental to us after the merger. Additionally, even after the statutory waiting period under the antitrust laws and even after completion of the merger, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. In addition, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. Ensco or Pride may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any such action under the antitrust laws. 30 THE MERGER AGREEMENT CONTAINS PROVISIONS THAT LIMIT EACH PARTY’S ABILITY TO PURSUE ALTERNATIVES TO THE MERGER, COULD DISCOURAGE A POTENTIAL COMPETING ACQUIRER OF EITHER PRIDE OR ENSCO FROM MAKING A FAVORABLE ALTERNATIVE TRANSACTION PROPOSAL AND, IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES, COULD REQUIRE PAYMENT OF A $260.0 MILLION TERMINATION FEE. Under the merger agreement, Pride or Ensco Delaware may be required to pay to Ensco or Pride, respectively, a termination fee of up to $260.0 million if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances. If such a termination fee is payable, the payment of this fee could have material and adverse consequences to the financial condition and operating results of the company making such payment. Under the merger agreement, Ensco and Pride are restricted from entering into alternative transactions. Unless and until the merger agreement is terminated, subject to specified exceptions, both Ensco and Pride are restricted from soliciting, initiating, knowingly and intentionally encouraging or facilitating, or negotiating, any inquiry, proposal or offer for a competing acquisition proposal with any person. Additionally, under the merger agreement, in the event of a potential change by the board of directors of either party of its recommendation with respect to the merger, such party must provide the other with two business days to propose an adjustment to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement. Ensco and Pride may terminate the merger agreement and enter into an agreement with respect to a superior proposal only if specified conditions have been satisfied, including compliance with the no solicitation provisions of the merger agreement. These provisions could discourage a third party that may have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Ensco or Pride from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if such third party were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the market value proposed to be received or realized in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it would otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances. As a result of these restrictions, neither Ensco nor Pride may be able to enter into an agreement with respect to a more favorable alternative transaction without incurring potentially significant liability to the other. IF OUR FINANCING FOR THE MERGER BECOMES UNAVAILABLE, THE MERGER MAY NOT BE COMPLETED AND WE MAY BE IN BREACH OF THE MERGER AGREEMENT. We intend to finance a portion of the cash component of the merger consideration with debt financing. On February 6, 2011, Ensco entered into a bridge commitment letter (the “Commitment Letter”) with Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch (“DBCI”), Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (“Citi”). Pursuant to the Commitment Letter, DBCI and Citi have committed to provide a $2,750.0 million unsecured bridge term loan facility (the “Bridge Term Facility”) to fund a portion of the cash consideration in the merger with Pride. The Bridge Term Facility would mature 364 days after closing. The commitment is subject to various conditions, including the absence of a material adverse effect on Pride or Ensco having occurred, the maintenance by us of investment grade credit ratings, the execution of satisfactory documentation and other customary closing conditions. We intend to fund the cash component of the merger consideration through internal cash resources, the Bridge Term Facility and potentially the proceeds of other sources of debt financing. In the event that the financing contemplated by the Bridge Term Facility is not available, other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. If other financing becomes necessary and we are unable to secure such additional financing, we could be in breach of the merger agreement assuming all other conditions to closing are satisfied, may be obligated to pay damages to Pride or may be compelled to specifically perform its obligations to consummate the transaction. WE EXPECT TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL ADDITIONAL INDEBTEDNESS TO FINANCE THE MERGER AND PRIDE’S EXISTING INDEBTEDNESS WILL REMAIN OUTSTANDING UPON COMPLETION OF THE MERGER, WHICH MAY DECREASE OUR BUSINESS FLEXIBILITY AND INCREASE OUR BORROWING COSTS. Upon completion of the merger, we will increase our indebtedness which will include acquisition debt financing of approximately $2,800.0 million and approximately $1,860.0 million of Pride’s debt obligations will remain outstanding after the merger. Our increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio in comparison to that of Ensco on a recent historical basis may have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs. In addition, the terms and conditions of such indebtedness may not be favorable to us, and as such, could further increase the cost of the merger, as well as the overall burden of such indebtedness upon us and our business flexibility. Unfavorable debt financing terms may also adversely affect our operating results. 31 PENDING LITIGATION AGAINST PRIDE AND ENSCO COULD RESULT IN AN INJUNCTION PREVENTING THE CONSUMMATION OF THE MERGER OR MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS FOLLOWING THE MERGER. In connection with the merger, various lawsuits have been filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery and in the District Courts of Harris County, Texas against Pride, its directors and Ensco and/or certain of its subsidiaries alleging violations of various fiduciary duties in approving the merger and that Ensco and/or Pride aided and abetted such alleged violations. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. While Ensco and Pride believe these suits are without merit and intend to vigorously defend against such claims, the outcome of any such litigation is inherently uncertain. Any and all applicable insurance policies may not provide sufficient coverage for the defense costs and claims under these lawsuits, and individual director and officer rights of indemnification with respect to these lawsuits will continue after the completion of the merger. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim that remains unresolved at the time the merger closes may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN THE REGULATORY CLEARANCES AND APPROVALS REQUIRED TO COMPLETE THE PROPOSED MERGER WITH PRIDE OR, IN ORDER TO DO SO, WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH MATERIAL RESTRICTIONS OR CONDITIONS. The merger is subject to review by the Antitrust Division and the FTC under the HSR Act and by other governmental entities under non-U.S. antitrust or competition merger control statutes. The expiration or termination of the waiting period (and any extension of the waiting period) applicable to the merger under the HSR Act is a condition to closing the merger. The merger may also be subject to the regulatory requirements of other municipal, state and federal, domestic or foreign, governmental agencies and authorities. We can provide no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained or that these approvals will not contain terms, conditions or restrictions, such as the divestiture of assets or lines of business, that would be detrimental to us after the effective time of the merger. Additionally, even after the statutory waiting period, and any extensions of such period agreed to by the parties, under the HSR Act has expired, and even after completion of the merger, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest. In addition, in some jurisdictions, a competitor, customer or other third party could initiate a private action under the antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the merger, before or after it is completed. We may not prevail and may incur significant costs in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws. ANY DELAY IN COMPLETING THE MERGER MAY SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE THE BENEFITS EXPECTED TO BE OBTAINED FROM THE MERGER. In addition to obtaining the required governmental clearances and approvals, the merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond the control of Pride and Ensco that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. We cannot predict whether or when the conditions required to complete the merger will be satisfied. The requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the effective time of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger may materially adversely affect the synergies and other benefits that we expect to achieve if the merger and the integration of our respective businesses are completed within the expected timeframe. 32 OUR FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF THE GOODWILL RECORDED IN THE MERGER SUBSEQUENTLY REQUIRES IMPAIRMENT. When we acquire a business, generally goodwill is recorded as an asset on our balance sheet and is equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including the fair value of liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and identified intangible assets of the business we acquire. FASB ASC 350 requires that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and that intangible assets that have finite useful lives be amortized over their useful lives. FASB ASC 350 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets for impairment. FASB ASC 350 requires our management to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of those reporting units, including, among other things, appropriate risk-adjusted discount rates, as well as future industry conditions and operations, expected utilization, day rates, expense levels, capital requirements and terminal values for each of our rigs. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. Any future impairments would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized. PRIDE’S BUSINESS, AND ANY OTHER BUSINESSES THAT WE MAY ACQUIRE AFTER COMPLETION OF THE MERGER, MAY BE DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE, DISRUPT OUR BUSINESS, DILUTE SHAREHOLDER VALUE OR DIVERT MANAGEMENT ATTENTION. Risks with respect to our merger with Pride, and any other recent and future acquisitions, include: • difficulties in the integration of the operations and personnel of Pride; • diversion of management’s attention away from other business concerns; and • the assumption of any undisclosed or other potential liabilities of the acquired company. OUR SHAREHOLDERS WILL BE DILUTED BY THE MERGER. The merger will dilute the ownership position of our current shareholders. We will issue approximately 86.0 million Class A ordinary shares represented by Ensco ADSs (based on the number of outstanding shares of Pride common stock and restricted stock unit awards as of February 4, 2011 and based on the assumption that no employee stock options to purchase shares of Pride common stock are exercised prior to completion of the merger). Our shareholders and Pride stockholders are expected to hold approximately 62.0% and 38.0%, respectively, of our ADSs outstanding immediately after the merger based on these same assumptions. 33 Risks Related to Our Redomestication to the U.K. WE HAVE NOT REQUESTED AN HMRC RULING ON THE U.K. TAX ASPECTS OF THE REDOMESTICATION, AND HMRC MAY DISAGREE WITH OUR CONCLUSIONS. Based on current U.K. corporation tax law and the current U.K.-U.S. income tax treaty, as amended, we expect that the redomestication will not result in any material U.K. corporation tax liability to Ensco plc. Further, we believe that we have satisfied all stamp duty reserve tax ("SDRT") payment and filing obligations in connection with the issuance and deposit of our Class A ordinary shares into the ADS facility pursuant to the deposit agreement governing the ADS facility. However, if HMRC disagrees with this view, it may take the position that material U.K. corporation tax or SDRT liabilities or amounts on account thereof are payable by Ensco plc as a result of the redomestication, in which case we expect that we would contest such assessment. If we were unsuccessful in disputing the assessment, the implications could be materially adverse to us. We have not requested an HMRC ruling on the U.K. tax aspects of the redomestication, and there can be no assurance that HMRC will agree with our interpretations of U.K. corporation tax law or any related matters associated therewith. Subject to certain exemptions and other forms of relief, a U.K. resident company, such as Ensco plc, is liable to corporation tax on the income profits (whether or not distributed) of any controlled company which is resident in a foreign jurisdiction and is subject to a lower level of taxation on those profits. A controlled company will be regarded as being subject to a lower level of taxation if the amount of foreign income tax on its profits is less than three-quarters of the corresponding corporation tax that would be payable in the U.K. if the company were resident in the U.K. Any such foreign income tax on the profits of the controlled company is generally creditable for U.K. corporation tax purposes. HMRC has, subject to certain conditions and limitations based on our facts and circumstances, granted exemption from the Controlled Foreign Companies (“CFC”) regime in respect of all material subsidiaries of Ensco plc under the “motive test” exclusion for a period after the merger ending December 31, 2012, which period may be reduced or altered by subsequent legislation. The present U.K. Government is consulting on a potentially major reform of the CFC regime and has stated its intention to introduce interim reform in 2011 and full reform in 2012. However, the U.K. Government has not yet put any of these reform proposals into effect and there can be no certainty about the nature and extent of any future changes to the current CFC regime. THE IRS MAY DISAGREE WITH OUR CONCLUSIONS ON TAX TREATMENT OF THE REDOMESTICATION. We expect that the redomestication will not result in any material U.S. federal income tax liability to Ensco plc. However, the IRS may disagree with our assessments of the effects or interpretation of the tax laws, treaties or regulations or their enforcement with respect to the redomestication. Nevertheless, even if our conclusions on the U.S. tax treatment of the redomestication to Ensco plc do not ultimately prevail, we do not believe that a contrary treatment of the redomestication by the IRS would result in a material increase in U.S. taxes compared to our pre-redomestication U.S. tax position. In this event we may not realize the expected tax benefits of the redomestication, and our operating results may be adversely affected in comparison to what they would have been if the IRS agreed with our conclusions. 34 IF ENSCO PLC AND ITS NON-U.S. SUBSIDIARIES BECOME SUBJECT TO U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX, OUR FINANCIAL POSITION, OPERATING RESULTS AND CASH FLOWS WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Ensco plc and its non-U.S. subsidiaries will conduct their operations in a manner intended to minimize the risk that Ensco plc or its non-U.S. subsidiaries engage in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. Our U.S. and U.S.-owned subsidiaries will continue to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their worldwide income, and our non-U.S. subsidiaries will continue to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their U.S. operations. However, if Ensco plc or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is or are determined to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., Ensco plc or such non-U.S. subsidiaries would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on income that is subject to the taxing jurisdiction of the U.S. If this occurs, our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. We believe the redomestication should improve our ability to maintain a competitive consolidated effective income tax rate because the U.K. corporate tax rate is lower than the U.S. corporate tax rate and because the U.K. has implemented a dividend exemption system that generally does not subject non-U.K. earnings to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. in the form of dividends from non-U.K. subsidiaries. In 2010, the new U.K. Government announced its intention that there will be a phased reduction in the headline rate of U.K. corporation tax from 27% to 24% by 2014, its lowest ever rate. The U.K. has implemented controlled foreign companies rules (the "CFC rules") under which, in certain circumstances, the income profits of controlled non-U.K. resident companies which are subject to a lower level of taxation may be subject to U.K. corporation tax, subject to credit relief for foreign tax on those profits. The HMRC has granted us an exemption from the CFC rules in respect of our material non-U.K. operations under the “motive test” exemption until December 31, 2012, subject to certain conditions and limitations based on our facts and circumstances. THE REDOMESTICATION MAY NOT ALLOW US TO MAINTAIN A COMPETITIVE CONSOLIDATED EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATE. In June 2010, the new U.K. Government announced in its Emergency Budget that it aims to create the most competitive corporate tax system in the G20, and that as a first step it will reform the U.K.'s CFC rules, which it recognized as a key priority for U.K. multinationals. The U.K. Government's policy is that the U.K.'s corporate tax system should focus more on profits from U.K. activity in determining the tax base, rather than attributing the worldwide income of a group to the U.K. It has been announced that legislation for new CFC rules will be introduced in the spring of 2012, allowing time to consider how to make the rules more competitive, to enhance long-term stability and to provide adequate protection of the U.K. tax base. The U.K. Government launched a consultation on the reform of the CFC rules in November 2010 which will continue until late February 2011, and it intends to publish draft legislation in respect of the same during the second half of 2011. At the same time, the U.K. Government also launched a consultation on certain interim improvements to the current CFC rules, to make the rules easier to operate and, where possible, increase competitiveness. The U.K. Government published draft legislation in respect of the same on December 9, 2010. Legislation on interim improvements to the CFC rules will be introduced during the first half of 2011. The effect of any changes to the CFC rules on our effective rate of income taxation will not be clear until the new legislation is published and enacted in its entirety. However, it is anticipated that these reforms will generally be favorable to us, as compared to the current CFC rules. Nevertheless, as the U.K.'s current CFC rules for the most part do not apply to our material overseas operations until December 31, 2012, our ability to efficiently manage those operations with a view to managing our effective income tax rates may be restricted by virtue of the new CFC rules from January 1, 2013. In the event that the U.K. Government adopts changes to the CFC rules that have the effect of increasing our consolidated effective income tax rate, our results of operations may be adversely affected unless we are able to identify and implement any mitigating actions. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our effective income tax rates will be because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in U.K. and U.S. tax laws. Our actual effective income tax rates may vary from our expectations and those variances may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our consolidated effective income tax rate. 35 We also could be subject to future audits conducted by U.K., U.S. and other tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could significantly impact our effective income tax rates in future periods, as would any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits and other matters could cause our effective income tax rates to increase and our financial position, operating results or cash flows to be adversely affected. CHANGES IN LAWS, INCLUDING TAX LAW CHANGES, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT ENSCO, ITS SUBSIDIARIES AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS. Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, in the U.S., the U.K. or elsewhere, could adversely affect the tax consequences of the redomestication to Ensco and its shareholders and/or our effective income tax rates (whether associated with the redomestication or otherwise). For example, one reason for the redomestication was to begin to align our structure so as to have an opportunity to take advantage of U.K. corporate tax rates, which are lower than the U.S. income tax rates, and to take advantage of the recent dividend exemption system implemented in the U.K., which generally does not subject earnings of non-U.K. subsidiaries to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. as dividends. Future changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in general or any such changes resulting in a material change in the U.S. or U.K. tax rates in particular could reduce or eliminate the benefits that we expect to achieve from the redomestication. CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate could result in a higher effective income tax rate on our worldwide earnings and such change could be significant to our financial results. Our future effective income tax rates could also be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by HMRC, the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. THE EXPECTED FINANCIAL, LOGISTICAL AND OPERATIONAL BENEFITS OF THE REDOMESTICATION MAY NOT BE REALIZED. We cannot be assured that all of the goals of the redomestication will be achieved, particularly as achievement of our goals is in many important respects subject to factors that we do not control. These factors include the reactions of U.K. and U.S. tax authorities, the reactions of third parties with whom we enter into contracts and conduct business and the reactions of investors and analysts. While we expect that the redomestication will enable us to take advantage of lower U.K. tax rates and the benefits of the U.K. dividend exemption system for certain non-U.K. source dividends repatriated to the U.K. in the years after implementation of the redomestication to a greater extent than would likely have been available if the redomestication had not occurred, these benefits may not be achieved. In particular, U.K. or U.S. tax authorities may challenge our application and/or interpretation of relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties, valuations and methodologies or other supporting documentation. If they are successful in doing so, we may not experience the level of benefits we anticipate, or we may be subject to adverse tax consequences. Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expenses in defending our position and contesting claims or positions asserted by tax authorities. 36 Whether we realize other expected financial benefits of the redomestication will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include changes in the relative rate of economic growth in the U.K. compared to the U.S., our financial performance in jurisdictions with lower tax rates, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations (especially as between the British pound and the U.S. dollar), and significant changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policies of the U.K. or the U.S., including changes in interest rates. It is difficult to predict or quantify the effect of these factors, individually and in the aggregate, in part because the occurrence of any of these events or circumstances may be interrelated. If any of these events or circumstances occur, we may not be able to realize the expected financial benefits of the redomestication, and our expenses may increase to a greater extent than if we had not completed the redomestication. Realization of the logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication is also dependent on a variety of factors including the geographic regions in which our rigs are deployed, the location of the business unit offices that oversee our global offshore contract drilling operations, the locations of our customer's corporate offices and principal areas of operation and the location of our investors. If events or changes in circumstances occur affecting the aforementioned factors, we may not be able to realize the expected logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication. INVESTOR ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL JUDGMENTS AGAINST US MAY BE MORE DIFFICULT. Because our parent company is now a public limited company incorporated under English law, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts than would have been the case for U.S. judgments obtained against us prior to the redomestication. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court. WE HAVE LESS FLEXIBILITY AS A U.K. PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN ASPECTS OF CAPITAL MANAGEMENT THAN U.S. CORPORATIONS DUE TO INCREASED SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS. Directors of a Delaware and other U.S. corporation may issue, without further shareholder approval, shares of common stock authorized in its certificate of incorporation that were not already issued or reserved. The business corporation laws of Delaware and other U.S. states also provide substantial flexibility in establishing the terms of preferred stock. However, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot shares with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. Such authorization would need to be renewed by our shareholders upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). An ordinary resolution was adopted prior to the effective time of the redomestication in December 2009 to authorize the allotment of additional shares for a five-year term and renewal of such authorization for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. English law also generally provides shareholders preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash. However, it is possible for the articles of association or shareholders in a general meeting to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years from the date of adoption of the articles of association, if the exclusion is contained in the articles of association, or from the date of the shareholder resolution, if the exclusion is by shareholder resolution. In either case, this exclusion would need to be renewed upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). A special resolution was adopted to exclude preemptive rights prior to the effective time of the redomestication in December 2009 for a five-year term and renewal of such exclusion for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. 37 English law prohibits us from conducting "on-market purchases" as our shares will not be traded on a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of "off-market purchases" without the prior approval of 75% of its shareholders by special resolution. Such approval lasts for a maximum period of up to five years. A special resolution was adopted in December 2009 to permit "off-market purchases" prior to the effective time of the redomestication. This special resolution will need to be renewed upon expiration (i.e., at least every five years) to permit "off-market purchases" and renewal for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. We have no assurances that situations will not arise where such shareholder approval requirements for any of these actions would deprive our shareholders of substantial benefits. THE REDOMESTICATION WILL RESULT IN ADDITIONAL ONGOING COSTS. The redomestication has resulted in an increase in some of our ongoing expenses and will require us to incur some new expenses. Some costs, including those related to relocation and employment of expatriate officers and other employees in our U.K. offices and holding Board of Directors meetings in the U.K., are expected to be higher than would be the case if our principal executive offices remained in the U.S. We also have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional expenses, including professional fees, to comply with U.K. corporate and tax laws. THE MARKET FOR ADSs REPRESENTING CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES MAY DIFFER FROM THE MARKET FOR COMMON STOCK OF U.S. CORPORATIONS. Although the ADSs are listed on the NYSE under the symbol "ESV," which is the same symbol under which common stock of Ensco Delaware was formerly listed, the market prices, trading volume and volatility of the ADSs could be different from those of the shares of Ensco Delaware common stock and certain funds and institutional holders may have rules or policies that restrict investment in ADSs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 38 