Item 1A. Risk Factors There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and/or cash flows. 11 Table of Contents THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS LARGELY DEPENDS ON THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY IN THE OIL AND GAS INDUSTRY WHICH CAN BE SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY VOLATILE OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, may significantly affect the level of drilling activity. An actual decline, or the perceived risk of a decline, in oil and/or natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of activity or spending, in which case demand for our services may decrease and revenues may be adversely affected through lower rig utilization and/or lower day rates. Worldwide military, political, environmental and economic events also contribute to oil and natural gas price volatility. Numerous other factors may affect oil and natural gas prices and the level of demand for our services, including: • demand for oil and natural gas, • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing, • the level of production by non-OPEC countries, • domestic and international tax policy, • laws and government regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions, • advances in exploration and development technology, • disruption to exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, • the worldwide military or political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East or geographic areas in which we operate, or acts of terrorism, and • global economic conditions. THE OFFSHORE CONTRACT DRILLING INDUSTRY HISTORICALLY HAS BEEN CYCLICAL, WITH PERIODS OF LOW DEMAND AND EXCESS RIG AVAILABILITY THAT COULD RESULT IN ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR BUSINESS. Financial operating results in the offshore contract drilling industry historically have been very cyclical and primarily are related to the demand for drilling rigs and the available supply of rigs. Demand for rigs is directly related to the regional and worldwide levels of offshore exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which is beyond our control. Offshore exploration and development spending may fluctuate substantially from year to year and from region to region. The supply of offshore drilling rigs is limited and new rigs require substantial capital investment and a long period of time to construct. There are 120 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2012. Approximately 60 of these rigs are scheduled for delivery in 2009, representing an approximate 10% increase in the total worldwide fleet of jackups and semisubmersible rigs. There are no assurances that the market in general, or a geographic region in particular, will be able to fully absorb the supply of new rigs in future periods. The increase in supply of offshore drilling rigs in 2009 and future periods could result in an oversupply of offshore drilling rigs and could cause a decline in utilization and/or day rates, a situation which will be exacerbated by a decline in demand for drilling rigs. Lower utilization and/or day rates in one or more of the regions in which we operate could adversely affect our revenues, utilization and profitability. 12 Table of Contents Certain events, such as the limited availability of insurance for certain perils in some geographic areas, rig loss or damage due to hurricanes, blowouts, craterings, punchthroughs and other operational events, may impact the supply of rigs in a particular market and cause rapid fluctuations in rig demand, utilization and day rates. Future periods of decreased demand and/or excess rig supply may require us to idle rigs or enter into lower day rate contracts or contracts with less favorable terms. There can be no assurance that the current demand for drilling rigs will not decline in future periods. A decrease in demand for drilling rigs or an increase in rig supply could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. DUE TO THE DETERIORATION OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY, RECENT DECLINE IN OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES AND SUBSTANTIAL UNCERTAINTY IN THE CAPITAL MARKETS, OUR CUSTOMERS MAY REDUCE SPENDING ON EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT DRILLING AND CUSTOMERS AND/OR VENDORS AND SUPPLIERS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FULFILL THEIR COMMITMENTS AND/OR FUND FUTURE OPERATIONS AND OBLIGATIONS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling activity. Oil and natural gas prices have declined significantly during recent months in a deteriorating global economic environment. A sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Disruption in the capital markets could also cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Historically, when drilling activity and spending decline, utilization and day rates also decline and drilling may be reduced or discontinued, resulting in an oversupply of drilling rigs. The oversupply of drilling rigs could be exacerbated by the projected entry of newbuild rigs into the market. When idled or stacked, drilling rigs do not earn revenue, but require cash expenditures for crews, fuel, insurance, berthing and associated items. A sustained decline in oil and natural gas prices, together with the global economic crisis, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES IF OUR CUSTOMERS TERMINATE OR SEEK TO RENEGOTIATE OUR CONTRACTS, IF OPERATIONS ARE SUSPENDED OR INTERRUPTED OR IF A RIG BECOMES A TOTAL LOSS. Our drilling contracts often are subject to termination without cause upon specific notice by the customer. Although contracts may require the customer to pay an early termination payment, such payment may not fully compensate for the loss of the contract and some of our contracts permit termination by the customer without an early termination payment. In periods of rapid market downturn, our customers may not honor the terms of existing contracts (including contracts for new rigs under construction), may terminate contracts or may seek to renegotiate contract day rates and terms to conform with depressed market conditions. Drilling contracts customarily specify automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of a total loss of the drilling rig and often include provisions addressing termination rights or reduction or cessation of day rates if operations are suspended or interrupted for extended periods due to breakdown of major rig equipment, unsatisfactory performance, force majeure or other specified conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. Our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by early termination of contracts, contract renegotiations or cessation of day rates while operations are suspended. WE MAY INCUR ASSET IMPAIRMENTS AS A RESULT OF THE DETERIORATING GLOBAL ECONOMY AND THE POTENTIAL RESULTING DECLINE IN DEMAND FOR OFFSHORE DRILLING RIGS. We evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment, primarily our drilling rigs, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such rigs may not be recoverable. The offshore drilling industry historically has been highly cyclical and it is not unusual for rigs to be unutilized or underutilized for significant periods of time and subsequently resume full or near full utilization when business cycles change. Likewise, during periods of supply and demand imbalance, rigs are frequently contracted at, near or below cash break-even rates for extended periods of time, until day rates increase when demand comes back into balance with supply. However, if the global economic environment continues to deteriorate and the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, impairment charges may occur with respect to specific individual rigs, groups of rigs, such as a specific type of drilling rig, or rigs in a certain geographic region. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units and estimate the fair value of those units as of the testing date. In most instances, our calculation of the fair value of our reporting units is based on estimates of future cash flows to be generated by our drilling rigs, which reflect management's judgments and assumptions regarding future industry conditions and operations, including expected utilization, day rates, expense levels and capital requirements for each of our drilling rigs. If the global economic environment continues to deteriorate and the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, our expectations of future cash flows may decline and ultimately result in goodwill impairment. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF CERTAIN CUSTOMERS CEASE TO DO BUSINESS WITH US. We provide our services to major international, government-owned and independent oil and gas companies. Although no customer represented more than 10% of revenues in 2008, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 40% of consolidated revenues in the aggregate. Our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if any major customer terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts with us, requires renegotiation of our contracts or declines to award new contracts to us. 14 Table of Contents FAILURE TO RECRUIT AND RETAIN SKILLED PERSONNEL COULD IMPEDE OUR OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS. We require skilled personnel to operate our drilling rigs and to provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor has intensified as additional rigs are added to the worldwide fleet. There are 120 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2012, approximately 60 of which are scheduled for delivery in 2009. These rigs will require new skilled and other personnel to operate. In periods of high utilization, it is more difficult and costly to recruit and retain qualified employees. Competition for such personnel could increase our future operating expenses, with a resulting reduction in net income, or impact our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. During the recent robust market, we experienced a tightening in our labor markets largely due to the loss of experienced personnel to our customers, competitors and other businesses involved in oil and natural gas exploration activities. In response to these market conditions, we increased compensation paid to employees and incurred other costs to retain our workforce, including bonus and retention programs for certain personnel. Notwithstanding the global economic downturn, we may be required to maintain or increase existing levels of compensation to retain our skilled workforce. Further, due to prior downturns in the oil and gas industry, much of the skilled workforce is nearing retirement age, which may further exacerbate the shortage of skilled personnel. We also are subject to potential further unionization of our labor force or legislative or regulatory action that may impact working conditions, paid time off or other conditions of employment. If such labor trends continue, they could further increase our costs or limit our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. OUR DRILLING CONTRACTS WITH NATIONAL OIL COMPANIES EXPOSE US TO GREATER RISKS THAN WE NORMALLY ASSUME. We currently have nine jackup rigs contracted with national oil companies, including a subsidiary of the national oil company of Venezuela. The terms of these international contracts may expose us to greater commercial, political and operational risks than we normally assume in international contracts, such as exposure to greater environmental liability, the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, under certain conditions that may not provide us an early termination payment, collection risks and political risks. While we believe that the financial, commercial and risk allocation terms of these contracts and our operating safeguards in place mitigate these risks, we can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. OUR DRILLING RIG FLEET IS HEAVILY CONCENTRATED IN PREMIUM JACKUP RIGS, WHICH LEAVES US VULNERABLE TO RISKS RELATED TO LACK OF DIVERSIFICATION. The offshore contract drilling industry is generally divided into two broad markets: deepwater and shallow water drilling. These broad markets are generally divided into smaller sub-markets based upon various factors, including type of drilling rig. The primary types of drilling rigs include jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs, drill ships, platform rigs, barge rigs and submersible rigs. While all drilling rigs are affected by general economic and industry conditions, each type of drilling rig can be affected differently by changes in demand for drilling equipment. We currently have 43 jackup rigs, two ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and one barge rig. Additionally, we have six ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs under construction. Our drilling fleet is heavily concentrated in the premium jackup rig market. If the market for premium jackup rigs should decline relative to the markets for other drilling rig types, our operating results could be more adversely affected relative to our competitors with drilling fleets that are less concentrated in premium jackup rigs. 15 Table of Contents OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS INVOLVE ADDITIONAL RISKS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH DOMESTIC OPERATIONS. A significant portion of our contract drilling operations is conducted in countries outside the United States. Revenues from international operations were 80%, 77% and 62% of our total revenues during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our international operations and our international shipyard rig construction and enhancement projects are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances, • expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our equipment, • expropriation or nationalization of a customer's property or drilling rights, • repudiation or nationalization of contracts, • assaults on property or personnel, • piracy, kidnapping and extortion demands, • exchange restrictions, • currency fluctuations, • changes in the manner or rate of taxation, • limitations on the ability to repatriate income or capital to the United States, • limitations on our ability to recover amounts due, • increased risk of government and vendor/supplier corruption, • changes in political conditions, and • changes in monetary policies. We historically have maintained insurance coverage and obtained contractual indemnities that protect us from some, but not all, of the risks associated with our non-U.S. operations such as nationalization, deprivation, confiscation, political and war risks. However, there can be no assurance that any particular type of contractual or insurance protection will be available in the future or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. In circumstances where we have insurance protection for some or all of the risks associated with non-U.S. operations, such insurance may be subject to cancellations on short notice, and it is unlikely that we will be able to remove our rig or rigs from the affected area within the notice period. Accordingly, a significant event for which we are uninsured or underinsured, or for which we have not received an enforceable contractual indemnity from a customer, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to various tax laws and regulations in substantially all of the non-U.S. countries in which we operate or have a legal presence. We evaluate applicable tax laws and employ various business structures and operating strategies in non-U.S. countries to obtain the optimal level of taxation on our revenues, income, assets and personnel. Actions by international tax authorities that impact our business structures and operating strategies, such as changes to tax treaties, laws and regulations, or the interpretation or repeal of same, adverse rulings in connection with audits or otherwise or other challenges, may substantially increase our tax expense. Our international operations also face the risk of fluctuating currency values, which can impact our revenues, operating costs and capital expenditures. In addition, some of the countries in which we operate have occasionally enacted exchange controls. Historically, these risks have been limited by invoicing and receiving payment in U.S. dollars or freely convertible international currency and, to the extent possible, by limiting acceptance of foreign currency to amounts which approximate our expenditure requirements in such currencies. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such terms in the future. We currently conduct contract drilling operations in certain countries that have experienced substantial fluctuations in the value of their currency compared to the U.S. dollar. Our drilling contracts generally stipulate payment wholly or substantially in U.S. dollars, which reduces the impact currency fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such payment terms in the future. 16 Table of Contents A substantial amount of the costs and expenditures incurred by our international operations, including a portion of the construction payments for the ENSCO 8500 Series® rigs, are settled in the local currencies of the countries in which we operate, exposing us to risks associated with fluctuation in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce this exposure. However, the relative weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the local currencies in these countries may increase our costs and expenditures. Our international operations are also subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the operation of drilling rigs and the requirement for equipment thereon. Governments in some non-U.S. countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of oil, natural gas and mineral concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration of oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry in their countries. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil and/or natural gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, government activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work performed by major international oil companies and may continue to do so. There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or activities will not have a material adverse effect on our future operations. WE HAVE SUBSTANTIAL RISK ASSOCIATED WITH ENSCO 69 OPERATIONS FOR A NATIONAL OIL COMPANY IN VENEZUELA. Since May 2007, ENSCO 69 has been contracted to Petrosucre, a subsidiary of PDVSA, the national oil company of Venezuela. PDVSA subsidiaries lack funding and generally have not been paying their contractors and service providers. As of January 31, 2009, we had a total receivable balance of approximately $36.0 million under the ENSCO 69 contracts. In late January 2009, we suspended drilling operations upon completion of the well in progress after Petrosucre failed to meet commitments relative to the payment of past due amounts. Petrosucre resumed ENSCO 69 drilling operations under observation by our supervisory rig personnel, utilizing Petrosucre employees and a portion of the Venezuelan rig crews that were utilized by us. Petrosucre has advised us that it temporarily is taking over operations on the rig. We currently are engaged in discussions and exchanging correspondence with Petrosucre regarding each party's contractual rights and obligations. The ENSCO 69 contracts are governed by Venezuelan law and there can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of the pending dispute. The payment dispute and other risks associated with international operations for national oil companies, including expropriation or confiscation of our rig, could have a material adverse effect upon our financial position, operating results or cash flows. CHANGES IN LAWS, EFFECTIVE INCOME TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Our future effective income tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. They could also be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 17 Table of Contents RIG CONSTRUCTION, UPGRADE AND ENHANCEMENT PROJECTS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS, INCLUDING DELAYS AND COST OVERRUNS, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR OPERATING RESULTS. THE RISKS ARE CONCENTRATED BECAUSE OUR SIX ULTRA-DEEPWATER SEMISUBMERSIBLE RIGS CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION ARE AT A SINGLE SHIPYARD IN SINGAPORE. THREE OF THESE RIGS DO NOT HAVE DRILLING CONTRACTS. There are 120 new jackup and semisubmersible rigs reported to be on order or under construction with expected delivery dates through 2012. As a result, shipyards and third party equipment vendors are under significant resource constraints to meet delivery obligations. Such constraints may lead to substantial delivery and commissioning delays and/or equipment failures and/or quality deficiencies. Furthermore, new drilling rigs may face start-up or other operational complications following completion of construction work, or other unexpected difficulties including equipment failures, design or engineering problems that could result in significant downtime at reduced or zero day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. We currently have six ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs under construction. In addition, we may construct additional rigs and continue to upgrade the capability and extend the service lives of our existing rigs. Rig construction, upgrade, life extension and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • failure of third party equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, • delays in equipment deliveries or shipyard construction, • shortages of materials or skilled labor, • damage to shipyard facilities, including damage resulting from fire, explosion, flooding, severe weather or terrorism, • unforeseen design or engineering problems, • unanticipated actual or purported change orders, • strikes, labor disputes or work stoppages, • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard while constructing, upgrading, refurbishing or repairing a rig or rigs, • unanticipated cost increases, • foreign currency fluctuations impacting overall cost, • inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals, • force majeure, and • additional risks inherent to shipyard projects in an international location. Our risks are concentrated because our six ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs currently under construction are at a single shipyard in Singapore. Although based on the design of ENSCO 7500 which has operated without significant downtime since its delivery in 2000, these six rigs and the recently delivered ENSCO 8500 have a common risk of unforeseen design or engineering problems. Furthermore, ENSCO 8501, ENSCO 8502 and ENSCO 8503 are subject to firm, fixed day rate drilling contracts upon completion of construction and significant shipyard project cost overruns or delays could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contracts and have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. ENSCO 8504, ENSCO 8505 and ENSCO 8506 have not secured drilling contracts upon completion of their construction. These rigs are scheduled to be delivered in the second half of 2011 and first and second half of 2012, respectively. There is no assurance that we will secure drilling contracts for these rigs or that the drilling contracts we may be able to secure will be based upon rates and terms that will provide a reasonable rate of return on these investments. Our failure to secure contractual commitments for these rigs at rates and terms that result in a reasonable return prior to the completion of construction may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we are able to secure drilling contracts prior to completion, we will be exposed to the risk of delays that could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contract and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents WE HAVE INVESTED A PORTION OF OUR CASH IN AUCTION RATE SECURITIES AND WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO HOLD THEM INDEFINITELY DUE TO AN ILLIQUID MARKET. As of December 31, 2008, we held $72.3 million (par value) of auction rate securities. During 2008, auctions for most of our auction rate securities failed. An auction failure, which is not a default in the underlying debt instrument, occurs when there are more sellers than buyers at a scheduled interest rate auction date and parties desiring to sell their auction rate securities are unable to do so. When an auction fails, the interest rate is adjusted according to the provisions of the associated security agreement, which may result in an interest rate that is higher than the interest rate the issuer pays in connection with successful auctions. Substantially all of our auction rate securities are currently rated Aaa by Moody's, AAA by Standard & Poor's and/or AAA by Fitch. An aggregate $68.6 million (par value), or 95%, of our auction rate securities were issued by state agencies and are supported by student loans for which repayment is substantially guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Auction failures and the resulting lack of liquidity have affected the entire auction rate securities market, and we are currently unable to determine whether these conditions will be of an extended duration. While it is estimated that approximately half of the $330.0 billion auction rate securities market has been refinanced, student loan supported auction rate securities remain mostly constrained and illiquid. Although $5.9 million of our student loan supported auction rate securities were redeemed at par value during the year ended December 31, 2008, we are currently unable to determine whether other issuers of our auction rate securities will attempt and/or be able to refinance. Some broker/dealers previously indicated that they planned to develop secondary markets for auction rate securities, but no such market has materialized. Consequently, we are currently unable to determine if alternative markets that provide for orderly purchases and sales of auction rate securities will develop. Several major brokerage firms have announced regulatory settlements in which they will initially offer to repurchase auction rate securities from retail investors, charities and small businesses, and use best efforts to provide liquidity to institutional investors within the next several years. However, we are currently unable to determine whether these brokerage firms will be able to comply with the terms of their regulatory settlements. Moreover, the deteriorating global economic environment may impede auction rate security repurchases. Although we acquired our auction rate securities with the intention of selling them in the near term, we do not currently expect to experience liquidity problems or alter any business plans if we maintain our investment in these securities indefinitely. Our auction rate securities have final maturity dates ranging from 2025 to 2047. 19 Table of Contents THE POTENTIAL FOR GULF OF MEXICO HURRICANE RELATED WINDSTORM DAMAGE COULD CAUSE US TO ALTER OUR OPERATING PROCEDURES DURING HURRICANE SEASON, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our drilling rigs in the Gulf Coast Region are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, and we have a larger concentration of rigs in the Gulf Coast Region than most of our competitors. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could result in rig loss or damage or could cause termination of drilling contracts on lost or severely damaged rigs or curtailment of operations on damaged drilling rigs with reduced or suspended day rates for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our drilling rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers' platforms and other related facilities in the area. To date, our drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico have not been materially impacted by hurricanes, although we sustained the total loss of one jackup rig during 2004, one platform rig during 2005 and one jackup rig during 2008 by reason of hurricane damage, with associated loss of contract revenues. We currently have 12 jackup rigs and one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig in the Gulf of Mexico. Insurance companies incurred substantial losses in the offshore drilling, exploration and production industries as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico during 2004, 2005 and 2008. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the levels of insurance coverage available for losses arising from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage and have dramatically increased the cost of such coverage. Upon renewal of our annual insurance policies effective July 1, 2008, we obtained $155.0 million of annual aggregate coverage for jackup rig hull and machinery losses arising from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage with a $50.0 million per occurrence deductible (these limits do not apply to our ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs as long as the rigs take action to evade the storm by moving off location according to established procedures). This amount of coverage is significantly less than our historical coverage, and we have no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance for Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage in the future due to capacity limitations and high premium cost. Our limited insurance coverage exposes us to a significant level of risk due to rig damage or loss related to severe weather conditions caused by Gulf of Mexico hurricanes or windstorms and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our current liability insurance policies maintain coverage for Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm exposures, including excess removal of wreckage and debris, and have self-retained interest (generally equivalent to a deductible) of $10.0 million per occurrence. We have established operational procedures designed to mitigate risk to our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season. In addition to procedures designed to better secure the drilling package on jackup rigs, improve jackup leg stability and increase the air gap to position the hull above waves, our procedures involve analysis of prospective drilling locations, which may include enhanced bottom surveys. These procedures may result in a decision to decline to operate on a customer designated location during hurricane season notwithstanding that the location, water depth and other standard operating conditions are within a rig's normal operating range. Our procedures and the associated regulatory requirements addressing Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit operations in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season may result in a loss or reduction of work for our rigs at certain customer drilling locations, with a corresponding reduction in rig utilization or day rates in the Gulf of Mexico. 20 Table of Contents THE LOSS OF ENSCO 74 MAY EXPOSE US TO COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH REMOVAL OF WRECKAGE AND DEBRIS, LIABILITIES FOR PROPERTY LOSS OR DAMAGE, PERSONAL INJURY OR DEATH OR ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES THAT MAY NOT BE FULLY RECOVERABLE UNDER OUR INSURANCE OR CONTRACTUAL INDEMNITIES. We have been unable to locate the hull of ENSCO 74, which is presumed to have sunk in the Gulf of Mexico in September 2008 as a result of Hurricane Ike. Portions of the rig's legs remain underwater adjacent to the customer's platform. We could be exposed to costs associated with removal of wreckage or debris if the hull is ultimately located and we are required to remove it. Furthermore, the sunken hull of ENSCO 74 may expose us to liabilities if it constitutes a hazard to navigation, and may expose us to various potential liabilities for property loss or damage, personal injury or death. Additionally, the ENSCO 74 hull contains certain fuel, oil, lubes and paint which, if released into the ocean, may create environmental liabilities and exposure to penalties, fines and clean-up costs. Our liability insurance and contractual indemnities may not fully protect us from such cost, liability or exposure. We may also be required to remove the leg sections of ENSCO 74 from the seabed. Although we expect the cost of removal of the leg sections to be covered by available insurance and contractual indemnification, we may not be fully protected from such costs, liability or exposure. OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES NUMEROUS OPERATING HAZARDS, AND WE ARE NOT FULLY INSURED AGAINST ALL OPERATING HAZARDS. Contract drilling and offshore oil and gas operations in general are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • rig or other property damage, liability or loss, including removal of wreckage or debris, resulting from hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, collisions, groundings, blowouts, fires, explosions and other accidents or terrorism, • blowouts, fires, explosions and other loss of well control events causing damage to wells, reservoirs, production facilities and other properties and which may require wild well control, including drilling of relief wells, • craterings, punchthroughs or other events causing rigs to capsize, sink or otherwise incur significant damage or total loss, • extensive uncontrolled rig or well fires, blowouts, oil spills or other discharges of pollutants causing damage to the environment, • machinery breakdowns, equipment failures, personnel shortages, failure of subcontractors and vendors to perform or supply goods and services and other events causing the suspension or cancellation of drilling operations, and • unionization or similar collective actions by our employees or employees of subcontractors causing suspension of drilling operations or significant increases in operating costs. 21 Table of Contents In addition to these risks to property and the environment, many of the hazards and risks associated with our operations, and accidents or other events resulting from such hazards and risks, as well as our routine operations, expose our personnel, as well as personnel of our customers, subcontractors, vendors and other third parties, to the risk of personal injury or death. Although we currently maintain broad insurance coverage, subject to certain significant deductibles and levels of self-insurance or risk retention, it does not cover all types of losses and, in some situations such as rig loss or damage resulting from Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm exposures, may not provide full coverage for damages, losses or liabilities resulting from our operations. Except for windstorm coverage on our Gulf of Mexico rigs subsequent to July 1, 2006, which was placed on a limited basis, we historically have maintained insurance coverage for damage to or loss of our drilling rigs in amounts not less than the estimated fair market value thereof. However, in the event of total loss, such coverage is unlikely to be sufficient to recover the cost of a newly constructed replacement rig. Since we do not maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance, we are fully exposed to loss of drilling contract revenue resulting from rig loss or damage. We generally obtain contractual indemnification obligating our customers to protect and indemnify us for all or part of the liabilities resulting from pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells, reservoirs and other customer property, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and certain non-rig crew personnel injuries. Such indemnification protection may be qualified or limited, and may exclude certain perils or events or the application of local law. In some circumstances, we are unable to obtain indemnification protection for some or all of the risks generally assumed by our customers, including risks and liabilities relating to environmental damage, well loss or damage or wild well control. The inability to obtain such indemnification, the failure of a customer to meet indemnification obligations or losses or liabilities resulting from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our contracts generally protect us in whole or part from certain losses sustained as a result of our negligence, most frequently as respects pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells or reservoirs, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and consequential damages. However, losses resulting from contracts that do not contain such protection could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Losses resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct may not be protected contractually by specific provision or by application of law, and our insurance may not provide adequate protection for such losses. COMPLIANCE WITH OR BREACH OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS CAN BE COSTLY AND COULD LIMIT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, pollution, contamination and hazardous waste disposal or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Laws and regulations specifically applicable to our business activities could impose significant liability on us for damages, clean-up costs, fines and penalties in the event of oil spills or similar discharges of pollutants or contaminants into the environment or improper disposal of hazardous waste generated in the course of our operations. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, and we have not experienced an accident that has exposed us to material liability for discharges of pollutants into the environment. However, there can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or accidents will not expose us to material liability in the future. OPA 90 and other federal statutes applicable to us and our operations, as well as similar state statutes in Texas, Louisiana and other coastal states, address oil spill prevention and control and significantly expand liability, fine and penalty exposure across many segments of the oil and gas industry. Such statutes and related regulations, both federal and state, impose a variety of obligations on us related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for resulting damages. For instance, OPA 90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil removal costs as well as a variety of fines, penalties and damages. A failure to comply with these statutes, including OPA 90, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement action, which may not be covered by contractual indemnification or insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Events in recent years have generally heightened environmental concerns about the oil and gas industry. From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. To date, no proposals have been enacted into law which would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation. However, we are adversely affected by moratoria on drilling in certain areas of the Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere. If new laws are enacted or other government action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation or impose environmental protection requirements that materially increase the cost of offshore drilling, exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas, we could be materially adversely affected. LAWS AND GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY ADD TO COSTS, LIMIT OUR DRILLING ACTIVITY OR REDUCE DEMAND FOR OUR DRILLING SERVICES. Our operations are affected by political developments and by local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations that relate directly to the oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas industry. Accordingly, we will be directly affected by the approval and adoption of laws and regulations limiting or curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental, safety and other policy reasons. We may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could decrease the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and our drilling services. Governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our drilling services. Furthermore, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur substantial additional costs to comply with new governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that legislative and regulatory activity could adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or significantly increasing our operating costs. TERRORIST ATTACKS, PIRACY AND MILITARY ACTION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Terrorist acts, piracy, kidnapping, extortion or acts of war may cause damage to or disruption of our domestic or international operations, employees, property and equipment or customers, suppliers and subcontractors, which may not be covered by insurance or an enforceable contractual indemnity and could significantly impact our financial position, operating results and cash flows. These acts create many economic and political uncertainties and the potential for future similar acts, the national and international responses and other acts of war or hostility could create many economic and political uncertainties, including an impact upon oil and natural gas drilling, exploration and development. This could adversely affect our business in ways that cannot readily be determined. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD AFFECT US ADVERSELY. We are involved in litigation, including various claims, disputes and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, many of which are uninsured and relate to commercial, employment or regulatory activities. We also are concluding an internal investigation relating to compliance with the anti-bribery, recordkeeping and accounting provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") that focuses on activities related to our former operations in Nigeria and the associated accounting entries and internal accounting controls, and have self-reported to the appropriate U.S. government authorities. Although we cannot accurately predict the outcome of our litigation, claims, disputes, regulatory proceedings and investigations or the amount or impact of any associated liability or other sanctions, these matters could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents 