Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that affect our business and the results of our operations, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause the actual results of operations in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS WILL DEPEND ON THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY IN THE OIL AND NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY, WHICH IS SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY VOLATILE OIL AND GAS PRICES. The success of our business will largely depend on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly affect the level of activity. An actual decline, or the perceived risk of a decline, in oil or natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of spending, in which case demand for our equipment and services may decrease and revenues may be adversely affected through lower rig utilization and lower average day rates. Worldwide military, political, environmental and economic events have also contributed to oil and natural gas price volatility and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Numerous other factors may affect oil and natural gas prices and the level of demand for our services, including: • demand for oil and gas, • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing, • the level of production by non-OPEC countries, • domestic and foreign tax policy, • laws and governmental regulations that restrict exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions, • advances in exploration and development technology, and • the worldwide military or political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East or geographic areas in which we operate, or acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere. 12 Table of Contents THE OFFSHORE CONTRACT DRILLING INDUSTRY IS CYCLICAL, WITH PERIODS OF LOW DEMAND AND EXCESS RIG AVAILABILITY THAT COULD RESULT IN ADVERSE EFFECTS ON OUR BUSINESS. Financial operating results in the offshore contract drilling industry have historically been very cyclical and primarily are related to the demand for drilling rigs and the available supply of rigs. Demand for rigs is directly related to the regional and worldwide levels of offshore exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which is beyond our control. Offshore exploration and development spending may fluctuate substantially from year to year and from region to region as noted in "THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS WILL DEPEND ON THE LEVEL OF ACTIVITY IN THE OIL AND NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY, WHICH IS SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY VOLATILE OIL AND GAS PRICES" above. The supply of drilling rigs is limited and new rigs require a substantial capital investment and a long period of time to construct. Currently, there are over seventy new rigs, primarily jackup rigs, reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2009. There are no assurances that the market will be able to fully absorb the supply of new rigs scheduled to enter the market in future periods. It is time consuming and costly to move rigs between geographic areas. Accordingly, as demand changes in a particular market, the supply of rigs may not adjust quickly, and therefore the utilization and day rates of rigs could fluctuate significantly. Certain events, such as hurricanes, craterings, punchthrough and blowouts may impact the supply of rigs in a particular market and cause rapid fluctuations in rig demand, utilization and day rates. Periods of decreased demand and excess rig supply may require us to idle rigs or to enter into lower rate contracts. There can be no assurance that the current demand for drilling rigs will not decline in future periods, nor can there be any assurance concerning any adverse effect resulting from such decrease in activity. 13 Table of Contents THE OFFSHORE CONTRACT DRILLING INDUSTRY IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE WHICH COULD LEAD US TO ACCEPT LOWER DAY RATES AND LESS FAVORABLE CONTRACT TERMS DURING INDUSTRY DOWNTURNS. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with numerous industry participants. The industry has experienced consolidation in recent years and may experience additional consolidation. Furthermore, recent mergers among oil and natural gas exploration and production companies have reduced the number of available customers. Drilling contracts are, for the most part, awarded on a competitive bid basis. Price competition is often the primary factor in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a contract, although quality of service, operational and safety performance, equipment suitability and availability, reputation and technical expertise are also factors. We will compete with numerous offshore drilling contractors, several of which are larger and have greater resources than us. During good industry market cycles we experience higher utilization, receive relatively high average day rates, and also generally are able to negotiate more favorable contract terms. During adverse industry market cycles, we compete more aggressively for contracts at lower day rates and may have to accept contractual liability and indemnity provisions that do not offer the same level of protection against potential losses as can be obtained during good industry market cycles. Lower day rates and/or utilization will adversely affect our results of operations. Increased contractual liabilities may also have an adverse effect on results of operations, especially in respect of risks for which we are uninsured or underinsured, or in relation to increased cost of insurance. 14 Table of Contents WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES IF OUR CUSTOMERS TERMINATE OR SEEK TO RENEGOTIATE OUR CONTRACTS. Our drilling contracts often are cancelable upon specific notice by the customer. Although contracts may require the customer to pay an early termination payment upon cancellation, such payment may not fully compensate for the loss of the contract. In periods of rapid market downturn, our customers may not honor the terms of existing contracts, may terminate contracts or may seek to renegotiate contract rates and terms to conform with depressed market conditions. Furthermore, contracts customarily specify automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of a total loss of the drilling rig and often include provisions addressing termination rights or cessation of day rates if operations are suspended for extended periods by reason of excessive downtime for repairs, acts of God or other specified conditions. Our operating results may be adversely affected by early termination of contracts, contract renegotiations or cessation of day rates while operations are suspended. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF CERTAIN CUSTOMERS CEASE TO DO BUSINESS WITH US. We provide our services to major international, government-owned and independent oil and gas companies. However, the number of customers served by us has decreased in recent years as a result of mergers among the major international oil companies and large independent oil companies. ExxonMobil provided approximately 12% of our consolidated revenues in 2005. The next four largest customers for 2005 accounted in the aggregate for approximately 30% of our 2005 consolidated revenues. Our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if any major customer terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts with us, or declines to award new contracts to us. 15 Table of Contents OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES NUMEROUS OPERATING HAZARDS AND WE ARE NOT FULLY INSURED AGAINST ALL OF THESE HAZARDS. Contract drilling and offshore oil and gas operations in general are subject to numerous risks, including the following: • rig or other property damage resulting from hurricanes and other severe weather conditions, collisions, groundings, blowouts, fires, explosions and other accidents or terrorism, • blowouts, fires, explosions and other loss of well control events causing damage to wells, reservoirs, production facilities and other properties and which may require wild well control, including drilling of relief wells, • craterings, punchthroughs or other events causing rigs to capsize, sink or otherwise incur significant damage, • extensive uncontrolled fires, blowouts, oil spills or other discharges of pollutants causing damage to the environment, • machinery breakdowns, equipment failures, personnel shortages, failure of subcontractors and vendors to perform or supply goods and services and other events causing the suspension or cancellation of drilling operations, and • unionization or similar collective actions by our employees or employees of subcontractors causing significant increases in operating costs. In addition, many of the hazards and risks associated with our operations, and accidents or other events resulting from such hazards and risks, expose our personnel, as well as personnel of our customers, subcontractors, vendors and other third parties, to risk of personal injury or death. We currently maintain broad insurance coverage, subject to certain significant deductibles and levels of self-insurance, but it does not cover all types of losses and in some situations it may not provide full coverage of losses or liabilities resulting from our operations. We have historically maintained insurance coverage for damage to our drilling rigs for amounts not less than the estimated fair market value thereof. However, in the event of total loss, such coverage is unlikely to be sufficient to recover the cost of a newly constructed replacement rig. Additionally, we do not generally maintain business interruption or loss of hire insurance. 16 Table of Contents We obtain contractual indemnification from our customers whereby such customers generally agree to protect and indemnify us for liabilities resulting from pollution and damage to the environment, damage to wells, reservoirs and other customer property, control of wild wells, drilling of relief wells and certain personnel injuries. The failure of a customer to meet indemnification obligations, the failure of one or more of our insurance providers to meet claim obligations, or losses or liabilities resulting from uninsured or underinsured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts generally protect us from certain losses sustained as a result of our negligence. However, losses resulting from contracts that do not contain such protection could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Losses resulting from our gross negligence or willful misconduct may not be protected contractually by specific provision or by application of law, and our insurance may not provide adequate protection for such losses. Moreover, the cost of many of the types of insurance coverage maintained by us has increased significantly during recent years. In addition, insurance market conditions have resulted in retention of additional risk by us, primarily through higher insurance deductibles. Very few insurance underwriters offer certain types of insurance coverage maintained by us, and there can be no assurance that any particular type of insurance coverage will continue to be available in the future, that we will not accept retention of additional risk through higher insurance deductibles or otherwise, or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. Further, due to the losses sustained by us and the offshore drilling industry as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in 2005 and 2004, we may not be able to obtain future insurance coverage comparable with that of prior years, thus putting us at a greater risk of loss due to severe weather conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we are likely to experience increased cost for available insurance coverage which may impose higher deductibles and limit maximum aggregate recoveries for certain perils such as hurricane related windstorm damage or loss. Our primary insurance policies renew annually effective July 1, and we may modify our risk management program in response to changes in the insurance market, including possible implementation of a captive insurance program or increased risk retention. 17 Table of Contents OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS INVOLVE ADDITIONAL RISKS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH DOMESTIC OPERATIONS. A significant portion of our contract drilling operations are conducted in foreign countries. Revenues from international operations as a percentage of our total revenues were 59% and 63% in 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our international operations and our international shipyard rig construction and enhancement projects are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, such as the risks of: • foreign terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances, • expropriation, nationalization or deprivation of our equipment, • expropriation or nationalization of a customer's property or drilling rights, • repudiation of contracts, • assaults on property or personnel, • foreign exchange restrictions, • foreign currency fluctuations, • foreign taxation, • limitations on the ability to repatriate income or capital to the United States, • changing local and international political conditions, and • foreign and domestic monetary policies. 18 Table of Contents We have historically maintained insurance coverage and contractual indemnities that protect us from some, but not all, of the risks associated with our foreign operations. However, there can be no assurance that any particular type of insurance coverage will be available in the future or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. Accordingly, a significant international event for which we are uninsured or underinsured, or for which we fail to recover a contractual indemnity from a customer, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to various tax laws and regulations in substantially all of the foreign countries in which we operate. We evaluate applicable tax laws and employ various business structures and operating strategies in foreign countries to obtain the optimal level of taxation on our revenues, income, assets and personnel. Actions by foreign tax authorities that impact our business structures and operating strategies, such as changes to tax treaties, laws and regulations, or repeal of same, adverse rulings in connection with audits, or other challenges, may result in substantially increased tax expense. Our international operations also face the risk of fluctuating currency values, which can impact revenues and operating costs denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, some of the countries in which we operate have occasionally enacted exchange controls. Historically, we have been able to limit these risks by invoicing and receiving payment in U.S. dollars or freely convertible international currency and, to the extent possible, by limiting acceptance of foreign currency to amounts which approximate our expenditure requirements in such currencies. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate such terms in the future. We also use foreign currency purchase options or futures contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency risk. We currently conduct contract drilling operations in certain countries that have experienced substantial devaluations of their currency compared to the U.S. dollar. However, since our drilling contracts generally stipulate payment wholly or substantially in U.S. dollars, we have experienced no significant losses due to the devaluation of such currencies. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate such payment terms in the future. Our international operations are also subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling rigs. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration of oil and gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industries in their countries. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil or gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, this government activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil companies and may continue to do so. There can be no assurance that these laws and regulations or activities will not have a material adverse effect on our operations in the future. 19 Table of Contents COMPLIANCE WITH OR BREACH OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS CAN BE COSTLY AND COULD LIMIT OUR OPERATIONS. Our operations are subject to local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, contamination and hazardous waste disposal or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Laws and regulations specifically applicable to our business activities could impose significant liability on us for damages, clean-up costs, fines and penalties in the event of the occurrence of oil spills or similar discharges of pollutants or contaminants into the environment or improper disposal of hazardous waste in the course of our operations. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations and we have not experienced an accident that has exposed us to material liability for discharges of pollutants into the environment. However, there can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or accidents will not expose us to material liability in the future. Moreover events in recent years have heightened environmental concerns about the oil and gas industry generally. From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. To date, no proposals which would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation have been enacted into law. If laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation or impose environmental protection requirements that materially increase the cost of offshore drilling, exploration, development or production of oil and gas, we could be materially adversely affected. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ("OPA 90"), as amended, and other federal statutes applicable to us and our operations, as well as similar state statutes in Texas, Louisiana and other coastal states, address oil spill prevention and control and significantly expand liability, fine and penalty exposure across many segments of the oil and gas industry. These statutes and related regulations, both federal and state, impose a variety of obligations on us related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for resulting damages. For instance, OPA 90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil removal costs and a variety of fines, penalties and damages. A failure to comply with these statutes, including without limitation, OPA 90, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement action, which may not be covered by contractual indemnification or insurance, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. LAWS AND GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS MAY ADD TO COSTS OR LIMIT OUR DRILLING ACTIVITY. Our operations are affected by political developments and by local, state, federal and foreign laws and regulations that relate directly to the oil and gas industry. The offshore contract drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and natural gas exploration industry. Accordingly, we will be directly affected by the approval and adoption of laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental, safety and other policy reasons. Furthermore, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that these laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations in the future by limiting drilling opportunities or significantly increasing operating costs. 20 Table of Contents OUR DRILLING RIG FLEET IS HEAVILY CONCENTRATED IN PREMIUM JACKUP RIGS, WHICH LEAVES US VULNERABLE TO RISKS RELATED TO LACK OF DIVERSIFICATION. The offshore contract drilling industry is generally divided into two broad markets: deepwater and shallow water drilling. Broad markets are generally divided into smaller sub-markets based upon various factors, including type of drilling rig. The primary types of drilling rigs include: jackup rigs, semisubmersible rigs, drill ships, platform rigs, barge rigs and submersible rigs. While these market segments are affected by common characteristics, they each have separate market conditions that affect the demand and rates for drilling equipment in that segment. Our current complement of offshore drilling rigs is comprised of 43 premium jackup rigs, one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig, one platform rig and one barge rig. Additionally, we have two ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and one ultra-high specification jackup rig under construction. Accordingly, our drilling fleet is heavily concentrated in the premium jackup rig market. If the market for premium jackup rigs should decline relative to the markets for other drilling rig types, our results of operations could be more adversely affected relative to our competitors which may have drilling fleets that are not concentrated in premium jackup rigs. NEW TECHNOLOGIES MAY CAUSE OUR CURRENT DRILLING METHODS TO BECOME OBSOLETE, RESULTING IN AND ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage, and competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at a substantial cost. In addition, competitors may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement technologies on a timely basis or at a cost that is acceptable to us. One or more of the technologies that we currently use or that we may implement in the future may become obsolete, and we may be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents OUR DRILLING RIGS ARE SUSCEPTIBLE TO DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION BY SEVERE WEATHER. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our drilling rigs in the Gulf Coast Region are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms and we have a larger concentration of rigs in the Gulf Coast Region than most of our competitors. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could potentially cause us to curtail operations on such drilling rigs for significant periods of time until damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our drilling rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customer's platforms and other related facilities in the area. To date, our drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico have not been materially impacted by hurricanes, although we sustained the total loss of one jackup rig in 2004 and one platform rig in 2005 by reason of hurricane damage. Due to the losses sustained by us and the offshore drilling industry as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico in 2005 and 2004, we may not be able to obtain future insurance coverage comparable with that of prior years, thus putting us at a greater risk of loss due to severe weather conditions which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we are likely to experience increased cost for available insurance coverage which may impose higher deductibles and limit maximum aggregate recoveries for certain perils such as hurricane related windstorm damage or loss. Our primary insurance policies renew annually effective July 1, and we may modify our risk management program in response to changes in the insurance market, including possible implementation of a captive insurance program or increased risk retention. 22 Table of Contents CHANGES IN LAWS, EFFECTIVE TAX RATES OR ADVERSE OUTCOMES RESULTING FROM EXAMINATION OF OUR TAX RETURNS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws both domestically and internationally. Our future effective tax rates could also be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In July 2005, the FASB issued an Exposure Draft of a proposed Interpretation "Accounting for Uncertain Tax Positions - an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109." The proposed Interpretation proposes changes to the current accounting for uncertain tax positions. While we cannot predict with certainty the rules in the final Interpretation, there is risk that the final Interpretation could result in a cumulative effect charge to earnings upon adoption, increases in future effective tax rates, and/or increases in future effective tax rate volatility. 23 Table of Contents RIG UPGRADE, ENHANCEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We currently have two ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and one ultra-high specification jackup rig under construction at a shipyard in Singapore. In addition, we may construct additional rigs and continue to upgrade the capability and extend the service lives of other rigs. Rig upgrade, life extension and construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • shortages of materials or skilled labor, • unforeseen engineering problems, • unanticipated actual or purported change orders, • work stoppages, • financial or operating difficulties of the shipyard upgrading, refurbishing or constructing the rig, • adverse weather conditions, • unanticipated cost increases, • inability to obtain any of the requisite permits or approvals, and • additional risks inherent to ship building and ship repairing in a foreign location. The risks are concentrated in respect of our three rigs currently under construction at one shipyard in Singapore. Significant shipyard project cost overruns or delays could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents FAILURE TO OBTAIN AND RETAIN SKILLED PERSONNEL COULD IMPEDE OUR OPERATIONS. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the skilled and other labor required for drilling operations has intensified as the number of rigs activated or added to worldwide fleets or under construction has increased in the last few years. Specfically, there are over seventy new rigs, primarily jackup rigs, reported to be on order for delivery by the end of 2009, which will require new skilled and other personnel to operate. Although competition for skilled and other labor has not materially affected us to date, the possibility exists that competition for skilled and other labor for operations could limit our results of operations in the future. In 2001, we entered into a voluntary agreement with a labor union in the North Sea and have not experienced any significant work stoppages or strikes as a result of labor disputes. Although none of our domestic employees are currently represented by unions, there may be continued labor union efforts to organize offshore employees in the Gulf of Mexico. Unionization or similar collective actions by our employees, domestically and internationally, may adversely impact our cost of labor. 25 Table of Contents TERRORIST ATTACKS AND MILITARY ACTION COULD RESULT IN A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Terrorist acts or acts of war may cause damage to or disruption of our United States or international operations, employees, property and equipment, or customers, suppliers and subcontractors, which could significantly impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Terrorist acts often create many economic and political uncertainties and the potential for future terrorist acts, the national and international responses to terrorism, and other acts of war or hostility could create many economic and political uncertainties, including an impact upon oil and gas drilling, exploration and development, which could adversely affect our business in ways that cannot readily be determined. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments. 26 Table of Contents 