Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results and/or cash flows. We are subject to a number of operating hazards, including those specific to marine operations. We may not have insurance to cover all these hazards. Our operations are subject to hazards inherent in the offshore drilling industry, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, uncontained formation pressures, lost or stuck drill strings, equipment failures and mechanical breakdowns, punch throughs, craterings, industrial accidents, fires, explosions, oil spills and pollution. These hazards can cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage, which could lead to claims by third parties or customers, suspension of operations and contract terminations. Our fleet is also subject to hazards inherent in marine operations, either while on-site or during mobilization, such as capsizing, sinking, grounding, collision, damage from severe weather and marine life infestations. Additionally, a security breach of our information systems or other technological failure could lead to a material disruption of our operations, information systems, and/or loss of business information, which could result in an adverse impact to our business. Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification from our customers, including with respect to well control and subsurface risks. We also maintain insurance for personal injuries, damage to or loss of equipment and other insurance coverage for various business risks. Our insurance policies typically consist of 12-month policy periods, and the next renewal date for a substantial portion of our insurance program is scheduled for May 31, 2012. Our insurance program provides coverage, to the extent not otherwise paid by the customer under the indemnification provisions of the drilling contract, for liability due to control-of-well events, liability arising from named windstorms and liability arising from third-party claims, including wrongful death and other personal injury claims by our personnel as well as claims brought on behalf of individuals who are not our employees. Generally, our program provides liability coverage up to $500.0 million, with a retention of $10.0 million or less. Control-of-well events generally include an unintended flow from the well that cannot be contained by using equipment on site (e.g., a blowout preventer), by increasing the weight of drilling fluid or by diverting the fluids safely into production. Our program provides coverage for third-party liability claims relating to pollution from a control-of-well event up to $650.0 million per occurrence, with the first $150.0 million of such coverage also covering re-drilling of the well and control-of-well costs. Our program also provides coverage for liability resulting from pollution originating from our rig up to $500.0 million per occurrence. We retain the risk for liability not indemnified by the customer in excess of our insurance coverage. In addition, our insurance program covers only sudden and accidental pollution. 13 Our insurance program also provides coverage for physical damage to, including total loss or constructive total loss of, our rigs, generally excluding damage arising from a named windstorm in the Gulf of Mexico. This coverage is based on an agreed amount for each rig, and has a per occurrence deductible for losses ranging from $15.0 million to $25.0 million. With respect to hull and machinery losses arising from Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage, we obtained $450.0 million of aggregate coverage for ultra-deepwater semisubmersible hull and machinery losses with a $50.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention (deductible). However, due to the significant premium, high self-insured retention and limited coverage, we decided not to purchase windstorm insurance for our jackup rigs remaining in the Gulf of Mexico. Accordingly, we have retained the risk for loss or damage of our 11 jackup rigs remaining in the Gulf of Mexico arising out of windstorm damage. With respect to our ultra-deepwater drillship currently located in the Gulf of Mexico, ENSCO DS-5, we have $150.0 million of named windstorm coverage with a $10.0 million per occurrence deductible. With respect to the ENSCO DS-5, included in the $450.0 million aggregate limit mentioned above, there is $300.0 million of coverage in excess of the $150.0 million aggregate limit. Our drilling contracts provide for varying levels of indemnification and allocation of liabilities between our customers and us with respect to loss or damage to property and injury or death to persons arising out of the drilling operations we perform. Under our drilling contracts, liability with respect to personnel and property customarily is assigned on a basis, whereby we and our customers assume liability for our respective personnel and property. However, in certain drilling contracts we assume liability for damage to our customers’ property and the property of other contractors on the rig resulting from our negligence, subject to negotiated caps per occurrence. In other contracts, we are not indemnified by our customers for damage to their property and the property of other contractors and, accordingly, could be liable for any such damage under applicable law. In addition, our customers typically indemnify us for damage to our down-hole equipment, and in some cases for all or a limited amount of our subsea equipment, unless the damage is caused by our negligence, generally based on replacement cost minus some level of depreciation. Our customers typically assume most of the responsibility for and indemnify us from any loss, damage or other liability resulting from pollution or contamination arising from operations under the contract and originating from the well or reservoir, including clean-up and removal, third-party damages, and fines and penalties, including as a result of blow-outs or cratering of the well. In some drilling contracts, however, we may have liability for third-party damages (including punitive damages) resulting from such pollution or contamination caused by our gross negligence, or, in some cases, ordinary negligence, subject to negotiated caps per occurrence and/or for the term of the contract. In certain contracts, we may not be indemnified by our customers for losses or damages caused by pollution or contamination, and we could be liable for such losses or damages under applicable law and for fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities, each of which could be substantial. In addition, in substantially all of our contracts, the customer assumes responsibility and indemnifies us for loss or damage to the reservoir, for loss of hydrocarbons escaping from the reservoir and for the costs of bringing the well under control. Further, most of our contracts provide that the customer assumes responsibility and indemnifies us for loss or damage to the well, except when the loss or damage to the well is due to our negligence, in which case most of our contracts provide that the customer’s sole remedy is to require us to redrill the lost or damaged portion of the well at a substantially reduced rate. We generally indemnify the customer for legal and financial consequences of spills of waste oil, fuels, lubricants, motor oils, pipe dope, paint, solvents, ballast, bilge, garbage, debris, sewage, hazardous waste and other liquids the discharge of which originates from our rigs or equipment above the surface of the water and in some cases from our subsea equipment. Some of our contracts provide that, in the event of any such spill from our rigs, we are responsible for fines and penalties. 14 The above description of our insurance program and the indemnification provisions of our drilling contracts is only a summary as of the date hereof and is general in nature. In addition, our drilling contracts are individually negotiated, and the degree of indemnification we receive from operators against the liabilities discussed above can vary from contract to contract, based on market conditions and customer requirements existing when the contract was negotiated. Notwithstanding a contractual indemnity from a customer, there can be no assurance that our customers will be financially able to indemnify us or will otherwise honor their contractual indemnity obligations. Our insurance program and the terms of our drilling contracts may change in the future. In addition, the indemnification provisions of our drilling contracts may be subject to differing interpretations, and such provisions may be unenforceable, void or limited by public policy considerations, primarily in situations where the cause of the underlying loss or damage is due to our gross negligence, where punitive damages are attributable to us or where any fines and/or penalties imposed on us for certain conduct are punitive in nature. The question may ultimately need to be decided by a court or other proceeding taking into consideration the specific contract language, the facts and applicable laws. The law with respect to the enforceability of indemnities varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and is unsettled under certain laws that are applicable to our contracts. If any of the aforementioned operating hazards results in substantial liability and our insurance and contractual indemnification provisions are unavailable or insufficient, our financial condition, operating results or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. The potential for Gulf of Mexico hurricane related windstorm damage or liabilities could result in uninsured losses and may cause us to alter our operating procedures during hurricane season, which could adversely affect our business. Certain areas in and near the Gulf of Mexico experience hurricanes and other extreme weather conditions on a relatively frequent basis. Some of our drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico are located in areas that could cause them to be susceptible to damage and/or total loss by these storms, and we have a larger concentration of jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico than most of our competitors. We currently have 11 jackup rigs, four ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs and one ultra-deepwater drillship in the Gulf of Mexico. Damage caused by high winds and turbulent seas could result in rig loss or damage, termination of drilling contracts on lost or severely damaged rigs or curtailment of operations on damaged drilling rigs with reduced or suspended day rates for significant periods of time until the damage can be repaired. Moreover, even if our drilling rigs are not directly damaged by such storms, we may experience disruptions in our operations due to damage to our customers' platforms and other related facilities in the area. Our drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico have been impacted by hurricanes, including the total loss of one jackup rig during 2004, one platform rig during 2005 and one jackup rig during 2008, with associated loss of contract revenues and potential liabilities. Insurance companies incurred substantial losses in the offshore drilling, exploration and production industries as a consequence of hurricanes that occurred in the Gulf of Mexico during 2004, 2005 and 2008. Accordingly, insurance companies have substantially reduced the nature and amount of insurance coverage available for losses arising from named tropical storm or hurricane damage in the Gulf of Mexico ("windstorm damage") and have dramatically increased the cost of available windstorm coverage. The tight insurance market not only applies to coverage related to Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage or loss of our drilling rigs, but also impacts coverage for potential liabilities to third parties associated with property damage, personal injury or death and environmental liabilities as well as coverage for removal of wreckage and debris associated with hurricane losses. We have no assurance that the tight insurance market for windstorm damage, liabilities and removal of wreckage and debris will not continue into the foreseeable future. 15 Upon renewal of our annual insurance policies effective May 31, 2011, we obtained $450.0 million of aggregate coverage for ultra-deepwater semisubmersible hull and machinery losses arising from Gulf of Mexico windstorm damage with a $50.0 million per occurrence self-insured retention (deductible). However, due to the significant premium, high self-insured retention and limited coverage, we decided not to purchase windstorm insurance for our jackup rigs remaining in the Gulf of Mexico. Accordingly, we have retained the risk for loss or damage of our 11 jackup rigs remaining in the Gulf of Mexico arising out of windstorm damage. With respect to our ultra-deepwater drillship currently located in the Gulf of Mexico, ENSCO DS-5, we have $150.0 million of named windstorm coverage with a $10.0 million per occurrence deductible. With respect to the ENSCO DS-5, included in the $450.0 million aggregate limit mentioned above, there is $300.0 million of coverage in excess of the $150.0 million aggregate limit. Our current liability insurance policies only provide coverage for Gulf of Mexico windstorm exposures for removal of wreckage and debris in excess of $50.0 million per occurrence as respects our jackup, ultra-deepwater semisubmersible and drillship operations and have an annual aggregate limit of $450.0 million. Our limited windstorm insurance coverage exposes us to a significant level of risk due to jackup rig damage or loss related to severe weather conditions caused by Gulf of Mexico hurricanes. We have established operational procedures designed to mitigate risk to our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season. In addition to procedures designed to better secure the drilling package on jackup rigs, improve jackup leg stability and increase the air gap to position the hull above waves, our procedures involve analysis of prospective drilling locations, which may include enhanced bottom surveys. These procedures may result in a decision to decline to operate on a customer designated location during hurricane season notwithstanding that the location, water depth and other standard operating conditions are within a rig's normal operating range. Our procedures and the associated regulatory requirements addressing Mobile Offshore Drilling Unit operations in the Gulf of Mexico during hurricane season, coupled with our decision to retain (self-insure) certain windstorm related risks, may result in a significant reduction in the utilization of our jackup rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. As noted above, we have a $50.0 million per occurrence deductible for windstorm loss or damage to our ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, a $10.0 million per occurrence deductible for windstorm loss or damage to our drillship in the Gulf of Mexico, and have elected not to purchase loss or damage insurance coverage for our 11 jackup rigs in the area. Moreover, we have retained the risk for the first $50.0 million of liability exposure for removal of wreckage and debris resulting from windstorm related exposures associated with our rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. These and other retained exposures for property loss or damage and wreckage and debris removal or other liabilities associated with Gulf of Mexico hurricanes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows if we sustain significant uninsured or underinsured losses or liabilities as a result of Gulf of Mexico hurricanes. 16 The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which can be significantly affected by volatile oil and natural gas prices. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, may significantly affect the level of drilling activity. An actual decline, or the perceived risk of a decline, in oil and/or natural gas prices could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of activity or spending, in which case demand for our services may decline and revenues may be adversely affected through lower rig utilization and/or lower day rates. Numerous factors may affect oil and natural gas prices and the level of demand for our services, including: • demand for oil and natural gas, • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing, • the level of production by non-OPEC countries, • U.S. and non-U.S. tax policy, • laws and government regulations that limit, restrict or prohibit exploration and development of oil and natural gas in various jurisdictions, • advances in exploration and development technology, • disruption to exploration and development activities due to hurricanes and other severe weather conditions and the risk thereof, • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, • expectations regarding future energy prices, • local and international political, economic and weather conditions, • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels, • the worldwide military or political environment, including uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in oil or natural gas producing areas of the Middle East or geographic areas in which we operate, or acts of terrorism, and • global economic conditions. 17 While recent economic trends have stabilized, continued effects of the economic recession could lead to a decline in demand for oil and natural gas. Further slowdowns in economic activity would likely reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in an extended period of lower oil and natural gas prices. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress the levels of exploration, development and production activity. In addition, continued hostilities in the Middle East and the occurrence or threat of terrorist attacks against the United States or other countries could further the downturn in the economies of the United States and other countries. Moreover, even during periods of high commodity prices, customers may cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. These factors could cause our revenues and margins to decline, as a result of declines in utilization and day rates, and limit our future growth prospects. Any significant decrease in daily rates or utilization of our rigs, particularly our high-specification drillships or semisubmersible rigs, could materially reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, these risks could increase instability in the financial and insurance markets and make it more difficult for us to access capital and to obtain insurance coverages that we consider adequate or are otherwise required by our contracts. Deterioration of the global economy and/or a decline in oil and natural gas prices could cause our customers to reduce spending on exploration and development drilling. These conditions could also cause our customers and/or vendors to fail to fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The success of our business largely depends on the level of activity in offshore oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling worldwide. Oil and natural gas prices, and market expectations of potential changes in these prices, significantly impact the level of worldwide drilling activity. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, whether caused by economic conditions, international or national climate change regulations or other factors, could cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Disruption in the capital markets could also cause oil and gas companies to reduce their overall level of drilling activity and spending. Historically, when drilling activity and spending decline, utilization and day rates also decline and drilling may be reduced or discontinued, resulting in an oversupply of drilling rigs. The oversupply of drilling rigs could be exacerbated by the entry of newbuild rigs into the market. When idled or stacked, drilling rigs do not earn revenues, but continue to require cash expenditures for crews, fuel, insurance, berthing and associated items. A decline in oil and natural gas prices, together with a deterioration of the global economy, could substantially reduce demand for drilling rigs and result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. We may incur asset impairments as a result of declining demand for offshore drilling rigs. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our property and equipment totaled $12.4 billion, which represented 70% of total assets. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our property and equipment. We evaluate the carrying value of our property and equipment, primarily our drilling rigs, when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such rigs may not be recoverable. The offshore drilling industry historically has been highly cyclical, and it is not unusual for rigs to be unutilized or underutilized for significant periods of time and subsequently resume full or near full utilization when business cycles change. Likewise, during periods of supply and demand imbalance, rigs are frequently contracted at or near cash break-even rates for extended periods of time until day rates increase when demand comes back into balance with supply. However, if the global economy were to deteriorate and/or the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, impairment charges may occur with respect to specific individual rigs, groups of rigs, such as a specific type of drilling rig, or rigs in a certain geographic location. 18 On May 31, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Pride resulting in the recognition of a preliminary amount of $2.95 billion in goodwill, including measurement period adjustments. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our goodwill totaled $3.3 billion, which represented 18% of total assets. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. The goodwill impairment test requires us to identify reporting units, perform a qualitative assessment of the likelihood that a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value, and in certain circumstances estimate each reporting unit's fair value as of the testing date. In most instances, our calculation of the fair value of our reporting units is based on estimates of future discounted cash flows to be generated by our drilling rigs, which reflect management's judgments and assumptions regarding the appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate, as well as future industry conditions and operations, including expected utilization, day rates, expense levels, capital requirements and terminal values for each of our rigs. If the aggregate fair value of our reporting units exceeds our market capitalization, we evaluate the reasonableness of the implied control premium. If we determine the implied control premium is not reasonable, we adjust the discount rate in our discounted cash flow model and reduce the estimated fair values of our reporting units. If the global economy were to deteriorate and the offshore drilling industry were to incur a significant prolonged downturn, our expectations of future cash flows may decline and could ultimately result in a goodwill impairment. Additionally, a significant decline in the market value of our shares could result in a goodwill impairment. The offshore contract drilling industry historically has been highly competitive and cyclical, with periods of low demand and excess rig availability that could result in adverse effects on our business. Our industry is highly competitive, and our contracts are traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. Pricing, safety records and competency are key factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Rig availability, location and technical ability also can be significant factors in the determination. In addition, recent consolidations within the oil and gas industry have reduced the number of available customers, resulting in increased competition for projects. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position as competition for drilling contracts continues to intensify into the foreseeable future. Our potential inability to compete successfully may reduce our revenues and profitability. Financial operating results in the offshore contract drilling industry historically have been very cyclical and primarily are related to the demand for drilling rigs and the available supply of drilling rigs. Demand for rigs is directly related to the regional and worldwide levels of offshore exploration and development spending by oil and gas companies, which is beyond our control. Offshore exploration and development spending may fluctuate substantially from year-to-year and from region-to-region. 19 The supply of offshore drilling rigs has increased in recent years, however, new rigs require substantial capital investment and a long period of time to construct. There are over 150 newbuild drillships, semisubmersibles and jackup rigs reported to be on order or under construction with delivery expected by the end of 2019. Approximately 45 of these rigs are scheduled for delivery during 2012 representing an approximate 6% increase in the total worldwide fleet of offshore drilling rigs. There are no assurances that the market in general or a geographic region in particular will be able to fully absorb the supply of new rigs in future periods. The increase in supply of offshore drilling rigs during 2012 and future periods could result in an oversupply of offshore drilling rigs and could cause a decline in utilization and/or day rates, a situation which could be exacerbated by a decline in demand for drilling rigs. Lower utilization and/or day rates in one or more of the regions in which we operate could adversely affect our revenues, utilization and profitability. Certain events, such as limited availability or non-availability of insurance for certain perils in some geographic areas, rig loss or damage due to hurricanes, blowouts, craterings, punchthroughs and other operational events, may impact the supply of rigs in a particular market and cause rapid fluctuations in utilization and day rates. Future periods of reduced demand and/or excess rig supply may require us to idle additional rigs or enter into lower day rate contracts or contracts with less favorable terms. There can be no assurance that the current demand for drilling rigs will not decline in future periods. A decline in demand for drilling rigs or an increase in drilling rig supply could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our non-U.S. operations involve additional risks not associated with U.S. operations. Revenues from non-U.S. operations were 73%, 75% and 86% of our total revenues during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our non-U.S. operations and shipyard rig construction and enhancement projects are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including: • terrorist acts, war and civil disturbances, • expropriation, nationalization, deprivation or confiscation of our equipment, • expropriation or nationalization of a customer's property or drilling rights, • repudiation or nationalization of contracts, 20 • assaults on property or personnel, • piracy, kidnapping and extortion demands, • significant governmental influence over many aspects of local economies, • unexpected changes in law and regulatory requirements, including changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws, • work stoppages, • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations, • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage, in certain areas, • imposition of trade barriers, • wage and price controls, • import-export quotas, • exchange restrictions, • currency fluctuations, • changes in monetary policies, • uncertainty or instability resulting from hostilities or other crises in the Middle East, West Africa, Latin America or other geographic areas in which we operate, • changes in the manner or rate of taxation, • limitations on our ability to recover amounts due, • increased risk of government and vendor/supplier corruption, • changes in political conditions, and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. 21 We historically have maintained insurance coverage and obtained contractual indemnities that protect us from some, but not all, of the risks associated with our non-U.S. operations such as nationalization, deprivation, confiscation, political and war risks. However, there can be no assurance that any particular type of contractual or insurance protection will be available in the future or that we will be able to purchase our desired level of insurance coverage at commercially feasible rates. Moreover, we may initiate a self-insurance program through one or more captive insurance subsidiaries. In circumstances where we have insurance protection for some or all of the risks associated with non-U.S. operations, such insurance may be subject to cancellation on short notice, and it is unlikely that we will be able to remove our rig or rigs from the affected area within the notice period. Accordingly, a significant event for which we are uninsured, underinsured or self-insured, or for which we have not received an enforceable contractual indemnity from a customer, could cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to various tax laws and regulations in substantially all countries in which we operate or have a legal presence. We evaluate applicable tax laws and employ various business structures and operating strategies to obtain the optimal level of taxation on our revenues, income, assets and personnel. Actions by tax authorities that impact our business structures and operating strategies, such as changes to tax treaties, laws and regulations, or the interpretation or repeal of same, adverse rulings in connection with audits or otherwise, or other challenges may substantially increase our tax expense. As required by law, we file periodic tax returns that are subject to review and examination by various revenue agencies within the jurisdictions in which we operate. We cannot predict or provide assurance as to the ultimate outcome of existing or future tax assessments. Our non-U.S. operations also face the risk of fluctuating currency values, which may impact our revenues, operating costs and capital expenditures. We currently conduct contract drilling operations in certain countries that have experienced substantial fluctuations in the value of their currency compared to the U.S. dollar. In addition, some of the countries in which we operate have occasionally enacted exchange controls. Historically, these risks have been limited by invoicing and receiving payment in U.S. dollars (our functional currency) or freely convertible currency and, to the extent possible, by limiting acceptance of foreign currency to amounts which approximate our expenditure requirements in such currencies. However, there is no assurance that our contracts will contain such terms in the future. A portion of the costs and expenditures incurred by our non-U.S. operations, including a portion of the construction payments for the ENSCO 8500 Series® rigs, are settled in local currencies, exposing us to risks associated with fluctuation in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce this exposure. However, the relative weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the local currencies in these countries may increase our costs and expenditures. Our non-U.S. operations are also subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the operation of drilling rigs and the requirement for equipment thereon. Governments in some non-U.S. countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of oil, natural gas and mineral concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration of oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and gas industry in their countries. In addition, government action, including initiatives by OPEC, may continue to cause oil and/or natural gas price volatility. In some areas of the world, government activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work performed by major international oil companies and may continue to do so. Moreover, certain countries accord preferential treatment to local contractors or joint ventures, which can place us at a competitive disadvantage. There can be no assurance that such laws and regulations or activities will not have a material adverse effect on our future operations. 22 The shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export and re-export of certain goods, services and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments also may impose express or de facto economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and other entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations may be enacted, amended, enforced or interpreted in a manner materially impacting our operations. Shipments can be delayed and denied export or entry for a variety of reasons, some of which are outside our control and some of which may result from failure to comply with existing legal and regulatory regimes. Shipping delays or denials could cause unscheduled operational downtime. Any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations also could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from government contracts, seizure of shipments and loss of import and export privileges. Although we implement and enforce policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and such laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. Rig construction, upgrade and enhancement projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The risks are concentrated because our one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig and three ultra-high specification harsh environment jackup rigs currently under construction are at a single shipyard in Singapore. There are over 150 new offshore drilling rigs reported to be on order or under construction with expected delivery dates through 2019. As a result, shipyards and third-party equipment vendors are under significant resource constraints to meet delivery obligations. Such constraints may lead to substantial delivery and commissioning delays and/or equipment failures and/or quality deficiencies. Furthermore, new drilling rigs may face start-up or other operational complications following completion of construction work or other unexpected difficulties including equipment failures, design or engineering problems that could result in significant downtime at reduced or zero day rates or the cancellation or termination of drilling contracts. We currently have one ultra-deepwater drillship, the ENSCO DS-7, one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig, the ENSCO 8506, and three ultra-high specification harsh environment jackup rigs under construction. In addition, we may construct additional rigs and continue to upgrade the capability and extend the service lives of our existing rigs. Some of these expenditures are unplanned. In 2012, we expect to spend approximately $1.2 billion on newbuild rig construction projects, and approximately $380.0 million with respect to the enhancement, upgrade and improvement of other rigs. 23 Rig construction, upgrade, life extension and repair projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including the following: • failure of third-party equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, • delays in equipment deliveries or shipyard construction, • shortages of materials or skilled labor, • damage to shipyard facilities or construction work in progress, including damage resulting from fire, explosion, flooding, severe weather, terrorism, war or other armed hostilities, • unforeseen design or engineering problems, including those relating to the commissioning of newly designed equipment, • unanticipated actual or purported change orders, • strikes, labor disputes or work stoppages, • financial or operating difficulties of equipment vendors or the shipyard while constructing, enhancing, upgrading, improving or repairing a rig or rigs, • unanticipated cost increases, • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations impacting overall cost, • inability to obtain the requisite permits or approvals, • client acceptance delays, • disputes with shipyards and suppliers, • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions, • claims of force majeure events, and • additional risks inherent to shipyard projects in a non-U.S. location. 24 Our risks are concentrated because our ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rig and three ultra-high specification harsh environment jackup rigs currently under construction are at a single shipyard in Singapore. Although based on the design of ENSCO 7500 which has operated without significant downtime for equipment failure since its delivery in 2000, our ENSCO 8500 series ultra-deepwater semisubmersible rigs have a common risk of unforeseen design or engineering problems. Only one of our rigs currently under construction has secured a drilling contract upon completion of its construction. These rigs are scheduled to be delivered beginning in the second half of 2012 through 2014. There is no assurance that we will secure drilling contracts for these rigs or that the drilling contracts we may be able to secure will be based upon rates and terms that will provide a reasonable rate of return on these investments. Our failure to secure contractual commitments for these rigs at rates and terms that result in a reasonable return upon completion of construction may result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. If we are able to secure drilling contracts prior to completion, we will be exposed to the risk of delays that could impact the projected financial results or the viability of the contracts and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Our drilling contracts with national oil companies expose us to greater risks than we normally assume in drilling contracts with non-governmental customers. We currently have 24 rigs contracted with national oil companies. The terms of these non-U.S. contracts are often non-negotiable and may expose us to greater commercial, political and operational risks than we assume in other contracts such as exposure to greater environmental liability, the risk that the contract may be terminated by our customer without cause on short-term notice, contractually or by governmental action, under certain conditions that may not provide us an early termination payment, collection risks and political risks. While we believe that the financial, commercial and risk allocation terms of these contracts and our operating safeguards mitigate these risks, we can provide no assurance that the increased risk exposure will not have an adverse impact on our future operations or that we will not increase the number of rigs contracted to national oil companies with commensurate additional contractual risks. Legal proceedings could affect us adversely. We are involved in litigation, including various claims, disputes and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, many of which are uninsured and relate to commercial, employment or regulatory activities. Additionally, in 2010, Pride and its subsidiaries resolved with the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and the SEC its previously disclosed investigations into potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"). In connection with the settlements, Pride paid a total of $56.2 million in penalties, disgorgement and interest. The settlement with the DOJ included a deferred prosecution agreement ("DPA") between Pride and the DOJ and a guilty plea by Pride Forasol, S.A.S., one of Pride’s subsidiaries, to FCPA-related charges. Under the DPA, the DOJ agreed to defer the prosecution of certain FCPA-related charges and agreed not to bring any further criminal or civil charges against Pride or any of its subsidiaries related to either any of the conduct set forth in the statement of facts attached to the DPA or any other information disclosed to the DOJ prior to the execution of the DPA. Pride agreed, among other matters, to continue to cooperate with the DOJ, to continue to review and maintain its anti-bribery compliance program and to submit to the DOJ three annual written reports regarding its progress and experience in maintaining and, as appropriate, enhancing its compliance policies and procedures. In connection with our acquisition of Pride, we agreed to assume the obligations set forth in the DPA. If we comply with the terms of the DPA, the deferred charges against Pride will be dismissed with prejudice. If, during the term of the DPA, the DOJ determines that we have committed a felony under federal law, provided deliberately false information or otherwise breached the DPA, we could be subject to prosecution and penalties for any criminal violation of which the DOJ has knowledge, including the deferred charges. 25 Pride has received preliminary inquiries from governmental authorities of certain of the countries referenced in its settlements with the DOJ and SEC. We could face additional fines, sanctions and other penalties from authorities in these and other relevant jurisdictions, including prohibition of our participating in or curtailment of business operations in those jurisdictions and the seizure of rigs or other assets. At this early stage of such inquiries, we are unable to determine what, if any, legal liability may result. Our customers in those jurisdictions could seek to impose penalties or take other actions adverse to our interests. We could also face other third-party claims by directors, officers, employees, affiliates, advisors, attorneys, agents, stockholders, debt holders, or other interest holders or constituents of our company. For additional information regarding this investigation and a stockholder demand letter and derivative cases with respect to these matters, please see “Demand Letter, Derivative Cases and Shareholder Class Actions” in Part II, Item 1. Legal Proceedings of this annual report. In addition, disclosure of the subject matter of the investigations and settlements could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to obtain new business or retain existing business from our current clients and potential clients, to attract and retain employees and to access the capital markets. Although we cannot accurately predict the outcome of our litigation, claims, disputes, regulatory proceedings and investigations or the amount or impact of any associated liability or other sanctions, these matters could adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows. Increasing regulatory complexity could adversely impact the costs associated with our offshore drilling operations. Increases in regulatory requirements, particularly in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, could significantly increase our costs. In recent years, we have seen several significant regulatory changes which have affected the way we operate in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005 and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 caused damage to a number of rigs in the Gulf of Mexico. Rigs that were moved off location by the storms damaged platforms, pipelines, wellheads and other drilling rigs. The U.S. Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement ("BOEMRE") BOEMRE has issued guidelines for jackup rig fitness requirements during hurricane seasons, which are scheduled to be effective through the 2013 hurricane season. As a result of these BOEMRE guidelines, jackup rigs in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico are required to operate with a higher air gap (the space between the water level and the bottom of the rig’s hull) during hurricane season, effectively reducing the water depth in which they can operate. The guidelines also provide for enhanced information and data requirements from oil and gas companies operating in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The BOEMRE may take other steps that could increase the cost of operations or reduce the area of operations. Implementation of the BOEMRE guidelines or regulations may subject us to increased costs and limit the operational capabilities of our rigs. Similarly, as a result of the Macondo well incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. Department of the Interior issued NTLs implementing additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and imposed additional requirements with respect to development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, including new regulations relating to the design of wells and testing of the integrity of wellbores, the use of drilling fluids, the functionality and testing of well control equipment, including third-party inspections, minimum requirements for personnel, blowout preventers and other safety regulations. Current or future NTLs or other directives and regulations may further impact our customers' ability to obtain permits and commence or continue deep or shallow water operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. Future legislative or regulatory enactments may impose new requirements for well control and blowout prevention equipment that could increase our costs and cause delays in our operations due to unavailability of associated equipment. New regulatory, legislative or permitting requirements in the U.S. or elsewhere, including laws and regulations that have or may impose increased financial responsibility and oil spill abatement contingency plan capability requirements, could materially adversely affect our financial condition, operating results or cash flows. 26 Laws and governmental regulations may add to costs, limit our drilling activity or reduce demand for our drilling services. Our operations are affected by political developments and by laws and regulations that relate directly to the oil and gas industry, including initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The offshore contract drilling industry is dependent on demand for services from the oil and gas industry. Accordingly, we will be directly affected by the approval and adoption of laws and regulations limiting or curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas for economic, environmental, safety and other policy reasons. We may be exposed to risks related to new laws or regulations pertaining to climate change, carbon emissions or energy use that could reduce the use of oil or natural gas, thus reducing demand for hydrocarbon-based fuel and our drilling services. Governments also may pass laws or regulations encouraging or mandating the use of alternative energy sources, such as wind power and solar energy, which may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and our drilling services. Furthermore, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures or incur substantial additional costs to comply with new governmental laws and regulations. It is also possible that legislative and regulatory activity could adversely affect our operations by limiting drilling opportunities or significantly increasing our operating costs. Geopolitical events, terrorist attacks, piracy and military action could affect the markets for our services and have a material adverse effect on our business and cost and availability of insurance. Geopolitical events have resulted in military action in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya; terrorist, pirate and other armed attacks globally; the threat by Iran of military action in the Strait of Hormuz; and civil unrest, political demonstrations, mass strikes and government responses in North Africa and the Middle East. Military action by the United States or other nations could escalate; further acts of terrorism, piracy, kidnapping, extortion and acts of war may occur; and violence, civil war and general disorder may initiate or continue in North Africa, the Middle East or elsewhere. Such acts of terrorism, piracy, kidnapping, extortion, violence, civil war, mass strikes and government responses could be directed against companies such as ours. Such developments have caused instability in the world’s financial and insurance markets in the past. In addition, these developments could lead to increased volatility in prices for oil and natural gas and could affect the markets for our products and services. Insurance premiums could increase and coverages may be unavailable in the future. Any or all of these effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. We may suffer losses if our customers terminate or seek to renegotiate our contracts, if operations are suspended or interrupted or if a rig becomes a total loss. Our drilling contracts often are subject to termination without cause upon specific notice by the customer. Although contracts may require the customer to pay an early termination payment in the event of a termination for convenience (without cause), such payment may not fully compensate for the loss of the contract and some of our contracts permit termination by the customer without an early termination payment. In periods of rapid market downturn, our customers may not honor the terms of existing contracts (including contracts for new rigs under construction), may terminate contracts or may seek to renegotiate contract day rates and terms to conform with depressed market conditions. Drilling contracts customarily specify automatic termination or termination at the option of the customer in the event of a total loss of the drilling rig and often include provisions addressing termination rights or reduction or cessation of day rates if operations are suspended or interrupted for extended periods due to breakdown of major rig equipment, unsatisfactory performance, "force majeure" events beyond the control of either party or other specified conditions. Our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by early termination of contracts, contract renegotiations or cessation of day rates while operations are suspended. 27 Our business may be materially adversely affected if certain customers cease to do business with us. We provide our services to major international, government-owned and independent oil and gas companies. During 2011, our five largest customers accounted for 43% of consolidated revenues in the aggregate, with our largest customer representing 16%. Our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be materially adversely affected if a major customer terminates its contracts with us, fails to renew its existing contracts with us, requires renegotiation of our contracts or declines to award new contracts to us. Failure to recruit and retain skilled personnel could adversely affect our operations and financial results. We require skilled personnel to operate our drilling rigs and to provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for skilled and other labor has intensified as additional rigs are added to the worldwide fleet. There are over 150 new offshore drilling rigs reported to be on order or under construction with delivery expected by the end of 2019. These rigs will require new skilled and other personnel to operate. In periods of high utilization, it is more difficult and costly to recruit and retain qualified employees. Competition for such personnel could increase our future operating expenses, with a resulting reduction in net income, or impact our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. Notwithstanding current global economic conditions, we may be required to maintain or increase existing levels of compensation to retain our skilled workforce. Much of the skilled workforce is nearing retirement age, which may impact the availability of skilled personnel. We also are subject to potential further unionization of our labor force or legislative or regulatory action that may impact working conditions, paid time off or other conditions of employment. If such labor trends continue, they could further increase our costs or limit our ability to fully staff and operate our rigs. Compliance with or breach of environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, pollution, contamination and hazardous waste disposal or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. Environmental laws and regulations specifically applicable to our business activities could impose significant liability on us for damages, clean-up costs, fines and penalties in the event of oil spills or similar discharges of pollutants or contaminants into the environment or improper disposal of hazardous waste generated in the course of our operations. To date, such laws and regulations have not had a material adverse effect on our operating results, and we have not experienced an accident that has exposed us to material liability arising out of or relating to discharges of pollutants into the environment. However, the legislative, judicial and regulatory response to the Macondo well incident could substantially increase our and our customers' liabilities. In addition to potential increased liabilities, such legislative, judicial or regulatory action could impose increased financial, insurance or other requirements that may adversely impact the entire offshore drilling industry. 28 The International Convention on Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation, the U.K. Merchant Shipping Act 1995, the U.K. Merchant Shipping (Oil Pollution Preparedness, Response and Cooperation Convention) Regulations 1998, the Clean Water Act and other related legislation and regulations and OPA 90 and other U.S. federal statutes applicable to us and our operations, as well as similar statutes in Texas, Louisiana, other coastal states and other non-U.S. jurisdictions, address oil spill prevention and control and significantly expand liability, fine and penalty exposure across many segments of the oil and gas industry. Such statutes and related regulations impose a variety of obligations on us related to the prevention of oil spills, disposal of waste and liability for resulting damages. For instance, OPA 90 imposes strict and, with limited exceptions, joint and several liability upon each responsible party for oil removal costs as well as a variety of fines, penalties and damages. Failure to comply with these statutes and regulations, including OPA 90, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement action, which may not be covered by contractual indemnification or insurance and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results and cash flows. Events in recent years, including the Macondo well incident, have heightened governmental and environmental concerns about the oil and gas industry. From time to time, legislative proposals have been introduced that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. We are adversely affected by restrictions on drilling in certain areas of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere, including the conditions for lifting the recent moratorium/suspension in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the adoption of associated new safety requirements and policies regarding the approval of drilling permits, restrictions on development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and associated NTLs that have and may further impact our operations. If new laws are enacted or other government action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our principal areas of operation or impose environmental protection requirements that materially increase the liabilities, financial requirements or operating or equipment costs associated with offshore drilling, exploration, development or production of oil and natural gas, our financial position, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our debt levels and debt agreement restrictions may limit our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding $5.1 billion in total debt, a significantly higher amount than the $257.3 million of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010. This debt represented approximately 32% of our total capitalization as of December 31, 2011. Our current indebtedness may have several important effects on our future operations, including: • a portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest; • covenants contained in our debt arrangements require us to meet certain financial tests, which may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and may limit our ability to dispose of assets or place restrictions on the use of proceeds from such dispositions, withstand current or future economic or industry downturns and compete with others in our industry for strategic opportunities; and • our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend payments and general corporate or other cash requirements may be limited. Our ability to maintain a sufficient level of liquidity to meet our financial obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Our future cash flows may be insufficient to meet all of our working capital requirements, debt obligations and contractual commitments, and any insufficiency could negatively impact our business. To the extent we are unable to repay our indebtedness as it becomes due or at maturity with cash on hand or from other sources, we will need to refinance our debt, sell assets or repay the debt with the proceeds from equity offerings. 29 Unionization efforts and labor regulations in certain countries in which we operate could materially increase our costs or limit our flexibility. Certain of our employees in non-U.S. markets are represented by labor unions and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Efforts have been made from time to time to unionize other portions of our workforce. In addition, we have been subjected to strikes or work stoppages and other labor disruptions in certain countries. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining agreements or work stoppages could materially increase our costs, reduce our revenues or limit our flexibility. Certain legal obligations require us to contribute certain amounts to retirement funds or other benefit plans and restrict our ability to dismiss employees. Future regulations or court interpretations established in the countries in which we conduct our operations could increase our costs and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Redomestication to the U.K. We have not requested a ruling from Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs ("HMRC") on the U.K. tax aspects of the redomestication, and HMRC may disagree with our conclusions. Based on current U.K. corporation tax law and the current U.K.-U.S. income tax treaty, as amended, we expect that the redomestication will not result in any material U.K. corporation tax liability to Ensco plc. Further, we believe that we have satisfied all stamp duty reserve tax ("SDRT") payment and filing obligations in connection with the issuance and deposit of our Class A ordinary shares into the ADS facility pursuant to the deposit agreement governing the ADS facility. However, if HMRC disagrees with this view, it may take the position that material U.K. corporation tax or SDRT liabilities or amounts on account thereof are payable by Ensco plc as a result of the redomestication, in which case we expect that we would contest such assessment. If we were unsuccessful in disputing the assessment, the implications could be materially adverse to us. We have not requested an HMRC ruling on the U.K. tax aspects of the redomestication, and there can be no assurance that HMRC will agree with our interpretations of U.K. corporation tax law or any related matters associated therewith. 30 Subject to certain exemptions and other forms of relief, a U.K. resident company, such as Ensco plc, is liable to corporation tax on the profits (whether or not distributed) of any controlled company which is resident in a foreign jurisdiction and is subject to a lower level of taxation on those profits. A controlled company will be regarded as being subject to a lower level of taxation if the amount of foreign income tax on its profits is less than three-quarters of the corresponding corporation tax that would be payable in the U.K. if the company were resident in the U.K. Any such foreign income tax on the profits of the controlled company is generally creditable for U.K. corporation tax purposes. HMRC has, subject to certain conditions and limitations based on our facts and circumstances, granted exemption from the Controlled Foreign Companies (“CFC”) regime in respect of all material subsidiaries of Ensco plc resident in a foreign jurisdiction and existing as at the time of the redomestication, under the “motive test” exclusion for a period after the redomestication ending December 31, 2012, subject to any changes of legislation. We have also obtained a substantially similar ruling from HMRC in respect of Pride International, Inc. and its material subsidiaries resident in a foreign jurisdiction and existing as at the time of its acquisition by Ensco plc, for a period ending December 31, 2013. The U.K. Government is consulting on a major reform of the CFC regime and has stated its intention to bring such reforms before Parliament in March 2012. While no assurance can be given in respect of the application of legislation that has not yet been enacted, we believe based on the U.K. Government's proposals and draft legislation published in December 2011 that the new CFC rules should not have a material adverse affect on our corporation tax treatment in the U.K. if enacted in their current form. However, to the extent that the draft legislation is enacted in a form different to that currently proposed, this may result in additional U.K. corporation tax liabilities to us following implementation of the revised legislation, which may adversely affect our financial position, operating results or cash flows. The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") may disagree with our conclusions on tax treatment of the redomestication. We expect that the redomestication will not result in any material U.S. federal income tax liability to us, and the IRS has confirmed to us that it will not challenge our conclusion that the redomestication resulted in Ensco becoming tax resident in the U.K. However, the IRS may disagree with our assessments of the effects or interpretation of the tax laws, treaties or regulations or their enforcement with respect to certain restructuring transactions that it completed after the redomestication. In this event, we may not realize the expected tax benefits of the redomestication, and our financial position, operating results or cash flows may be adversely affected in comparison to what they would have been if the IRS agreed with our conclusions. If Ensco plc and its non-U.S. subsidiaries become subject to U.S. federal income tax, our financial position, operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected. Ensco plc and its non-U.S. subsidiaries will conduct their operations in a manner intended to minimize the risk that Ensco plc or its non-U.S. subsidiaries engage in the conduct of a U.S. trade or business. Our U.S. and U.S.-owned subsidiaries will continue to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their worldwide income, and our non-U.S. subsidiaries will continue to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on their U.S. operations. However, if Ensco plc or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries is or are determined to be engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., Ensco plc or such non-U.S. subsidiaries would be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on income that is subject to the taxing jurisdiction of the U.S. If this occurs, our financial position, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. 31 The redomestication may not allow us to maintain a competitive consolidated effective income tax rate. We believe the redomestication should improve our ability to maintain a competitive consolidated effective income tax rate because the U.K. corporate tax rate is lower than the U.S. corporate tax rate and because the U.K. has implemented a dividend exemption system that generally does not subject non-U.K. earnings to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. in the form of dividends from non-U.K. subsidiaries. In 2010, the new U.K. Government announced its intention that there will be a phased reduction in the headline rate of U.K. corporation tax from 27% to 24% by 2014, its lowest ever rate. The U.K. has implemented CFC rules under which, in certain circumstances, the income profits of controlled non-U.K. resident companies which are subject to a lower level of taxation may be subject to U.K. corporation tax, subject to credit relief for foreign tax on those profits. The HMRC has granted us an exemption from the CFC rules in respect of certain of our material non-U.K. resident subsidiaries under the “motive test” exemption until December 31, 2012, and in respect of certain of our other material non-U.K. subsidiaries under a substantially similar exemption until December 31, 2013, subject in both cases to certain conditions and limitations based on our facts and circumstances. In June 2010, the new U.K. Government announced in its Emergency Budget that it aimed to create the most competitive corporate tax system in the G20, and that as a first step it would reform the U.K.'s CFC rules, which it recognized as a key priority for U.K. multinationals. The U.K. Government's policy is that the U.K.'s corporate tax system should focus more on profits from U.K. activity in determining the tax base, rather than attributing the worldwide income of a group to the U.K. Legislation on interim improvements to the CFC rules was enacted in 2011. In December 2011, the U.K. Government published major new CFC reform proposals together with draft legislation and is expected to bring such reforms before Parliament in March 2012. The effect of any changes to the CFC rules on our consolidated effective income tax rate will not be clear until the new legislation is published and enacted in its entirety, currently expected to occur in mid-2012. However, it is anticipated that these reforms generally will be favorable to us, as compared to the current CFC rules. Nevertheless, as the U.K.'s current CFC rules for the most part do not apply to our material overseas subsidiaries until December 31, 2012, in some cases, or December 31, 2013, in others, our ability to efficiently manage those operations with a view to managing our consolidated effective income tax rate may be restricted by virtue of the new CFC rules from January 1, 2013 or January 1, 2014, as the case may be. In the event that the U.K. Government adopts changes to the proposed CFC rules that have the effect of increasing our consolidated effective income tax rate, our results of operations may be adversely affected unless we are able to identify and implement any mitigating actions. We cannot provide any assurances as to what our consolidated effective income tax rate will be because of, among other matters, uncertainty regarding the nature and extent of our business activities in any particular jurisdiction in the future and the tax laws of such jurisdictions, as well as potential changes in U.K. and U.S. tax laws. Our actual consolidated effective income tax rate may vary from our expectations and those variances may be material. We also could be subject to future audits conducted by U.K., U.S. and other tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could significantly impact our consolidated effective income tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other matter (such as changes in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in law, audits and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of any changes in the law, audits and other matters could cause our consolidated effective income tax rate to increase and cause a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. 32 Changes in laws, including tax law changes, could adversely affect us and our shareholders. Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, in the U.S., the U.K. or elsewhere, could cause material adverse tax consequences of the redomestication and post-redomestication internal restructuring for us and our shareholders and/or our consolidated effective income tax rate (whether associated with the redomestication, the subsequent internal restructuring or otherwise). For example, one intention of the redomestication and subsequent internal restructuring was to improve our structure to allow for opportunity to take advantage of U.K. corporate tax rates, which are lower than the U.S. income tax rates, and to take advantage of the recent dividend exemption system implemented in the U.K., which generally does not subject earnings of non-U.K. subsidiaries to U.K. tax when such earnings are repatriated to the U.K. as dividends. Future changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties or the interpretation or enforcement thereof in general or any such changes resulting in a material change in the U.S. or U.K. tax rates in particular could reduce or eliminate the benefits that we expect to achieve from the redomestication and subsequent internal restructuring. Changes in our consolidated effective income tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities or changes in tax treaties, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof in one or more countries in which we operate could result in a higher consolidated effective income tax rate on our worldwide earnings and such change could be significant to our financial results. Our future consolidated effective income tax rate could also be adversely affected by lower than anticipated earnings in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated earnings in countries where we have higher statutory rates. In addition, we are subject to examinations of our income tax returns by HMRC, the IRS and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial position, operating results or cash flows. The expected financial, logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication may not be realized. We cannot be assured that all of the goals of the redomestication will be achieved, particularly as achievement of our goals is in many important respects subject to factors that we do not control. These factors include the reactions of U.K. and U.S. tax authorities, the reactions of third parties with whom we enter into contracts and conduct business and the reactions of investors and analysts. While we believe that the redomestication has enabled us to take advantage of lower U.K. tax rates and the benefits of the U.K. dividend exemption system for certain non-U.K. source dividends repatriated to the U.K. in the years after implementation of the redomestication to a greater extent than would likely have been available if the redomestication had not occurred, these benefits may not continue to be achieved. In particular, U.K. or U.S. tax authorities may challenge our application and/or interpretation of relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties, valuations and methodologies or other supporting documentation. If they are successful in doing so, we may not experience the level of benefits we anticipate, or we may be subject to adverse tax consequences. Even if we are successful in maintaining our positions, we may incur significant expenses in defending our position and contesting claims or positions asserted by tax authorities. 33 Whether we realize other expected financial benefits of the redomestication will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include changes in the relative rate of economic growth in the U.K. compared to the U.S., our financial performance in jurisdictions with lower tax rates, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and significant changes in trade, monetary or fiscal policies of the U.K. or the U.S., including changes in interest rates. It is difficult to predict or quantify the effect of these factors, individually and in the aggregate, in part because the occurrence of any of these events or circumstances may be interrelated. If any of these events or circumstances occur, we may not be able to realize the expected financial benefits of the redomestication, and our expenses may increase to a greater extent than if we had not completed the redomestication. Realization of the logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication is also dependent on a variety of factors including the geographic regions in which our drilling rigs are deployed, the location of the business unit offices that oversee our global offshore contract drilling operations, the locations of our customers’ corporate offices and principal areas of operation and the location of our investors. If events or changes in circumstances occur affecting the aforementioned factors, we may not be able to realize the expected logistical and operational benefits of the redomestication. Investor enforcement of civil judgments against us may be more difficult. Because our parent company is now a public limited company incorporated under English law, investors could experience more difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us in U.S. courts than would have been the case for U.S. judgments obtained against us prior to the redomestication. In addition, it may be more difficult (or impossible) to bring some types of claims against us in courts in England than it would be to bring similar claims against a U.S. company in a U.S. court. We have less flexibility as a U.K. public limited company with respect to certain aspects of capital management than U.S. corporations due to increased shareholder approval requirements. Directors of a Delaware and other U.S. corporations may issue, without further shareholder approval, shares of common stock authorized in its certificate of incorporation that were not already issued or reserved. The business corporation laws of Delaware and other U.S. states also provide substantial flexibility in establishing the terms of preferred stock. However, English law provides that a board of directors may only allot shares with the prior authorization of shareholders, such authorization being up to the aggregate nominal amount of shares and for a maximum period of five years, each as specified in the articles of association or relevant shareholder resolution. Such authorization would need to be renewed by our shareholders upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). An ordinary resolution was adopted prior to the effective time of the redomestication in December 2009 to authorize the allotment of additional shares for a five-year term and renewal of such authorization for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. 34 English law also generally provides shareholders preemptive rights when new shares are issued for cash. However, it is possible for the articles of association or shareholders in a general meeting to exclude preemptive rights. Such an exclusion of preemptive rights may be for a maximum period of up to five years from the date of adoption of the articles of association, if the exclusion is contained in the articles of association, or from the date of the shareholder resolution, if the exclusion is by shareholder resolution. In either case, this exclusion would need to be renewed upon its expiration (i.e., at least every five years). A special resolution was adopted to exclude preemptive rights prior to the effective time of the redomestication in December 2009 for a five-year term and renewal of such exclusion for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. English law prohibits us from conducting "on-market purchases" as our shares will not be traded on a recognized investment exchange in the U.K. English law also generally prohibits a company from repurchasing its own shares by way of "off-market purchases" without the prior approval of 75% of its shareholders by special resolution. Such approval lasts for a maximum period of up to five years. A special resolution was adopted in December 2009 to permit "off-market purchases" prior to the effective time of the redomestication. This special resolution will need to be renewed upon expiration (i.e., at least every five years) to permit "off-market purchases" and renewal for additional five-year terms may be sought more frequently. We have no assurances that situations will not arise where such shareholder approval requirements for any of these actions would deprive our shareholders of substantial benefits. The market for ADSs representing Class A Ordinary Shares may differ from the market for common stock of U.S. corporations. Although the ADSs are listed on the NYSE under the symbol "ESV," which is the same symbol under which common stock of Ensco Delaware was formerly listed, the market prices, trading volume and volatility of the ADSs could be different from those of the shares of Ensco Delaware common stock and certain funds and institutional holders may have rules or policies that restrict investment in ADSs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 