RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business and future prospects. If any of the following risk factors should occur, the Company’s financial condition could be materially impacted and the holders of our securities could lose part or all of their investment in Panhandle. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive, and investors are encouraged to perform their own investigation with respect to the Company and its business. Investors should also read the other information in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes. Economic conditions, worldwide and in the United States, may have a significant negative effect on operating results, liquidity and financial condition. Effects of domestic and international economic conditions, could lead to: (1) a decline in demand for oil, NGL and natural gas resulting in decreased oil, NGL and natural gas reserves due to curtailed drilling activity; (2) a decline in oil, NGL and natural gas prices; (3) risk of insolvency of well operators and oil, NGL and natural gas purchasers; (4) limited availability of certain insurance coverage; and (5) limited access to derivative instruments. A decline in reserves would lead to a decline in production, and either a production decline, or a decrease in oil, NGL and natural gas prices, would have a negative impact on the Company’s cash flow, profitability and value. (5) Table of Contents Oil, NGL and natural gas prices are volatile. Volatility in these prices can adversely affect operating results and the price of the Company’s Common Stock. This volatility also makes valuation of oil and natural gas producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. Oil, NGL and natural gas prices have historically been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. The prices for oil, NGL and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to a number of factors, including: • worldwide economic conditions; • economic, political and regulatory developments; • market uncertainty; • relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, NGL and natural gas; • availability and capacity of necessary transportation and processing facilities; • commodity futures trading; • weather conditions; • political instability or armed conflicts in major oil and natural gas producing regions, particularly the Middle East and West Africa; • actions taken by OPEC; • competition from alternative sources of energy; and • technological advancements affecting energy consumption and energy supply. In recent years, oil, NGL and natural gas price volatility has been severe. Price volatility makes it difficult to budget and project the return on investment in exploration and development projects and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that are owned or acquired by the Company. In addition, volatile prices often disrupt the market for oil and natural gas properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties. Revenues, results of operations and profitability may fluctuate significantly as a result of variations in oil, NGL and natural gas prices and production performance. Lower oil, NGL and natural gas prices may also trigger significant impairment write-downs on a portion of the Company’s properties. A substantial decline in oil, NGL and natural gas prices for an extended period of time would have a material adverse effect on the Company. A substantial decline in oil, NGL and natural gas prices for an extended period of time would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, access to capital and the quantities of oil, NGL and natural gas that may be economically produced. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would have a material negative effect in several ways, including: • cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures employed to replace reserves or increase production; • future undiscounted and discounted net cash flows from producing properties would decrease, possibly resulting in impairment expense that may be significant; • certain reserves may no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flow; and • access to sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. (6) Table of Contents We cannot control activities on properties we do not operate. The Company does not operate any of the properties in which it has an interest and has very limited ability to exercise influence over operations of these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and the limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially and adversely affect the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and targeted production growth rates. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants for drilling wells and utilization of appropriate technology. The Company’s derivative activities may reduce the cash flow received for oil and natural gas sales. In order to manage exposure to price volatility on our oil and natural gas production, we enter into oil and natural gas derivative contracts for a portion of our expected production. Oil and natural gas price derivatives may limit the cash flow we actually realize and therefore reduce the Company’s ability to fund future projects. Also, the fair value of our oil and natural gas derivative contracts may vary significantly from period to period, therefore materially affecting reported earnings. There is risk associated with our derivative contracts that involves the possibility that counterparties may be unable to satisfy contractual obligations to us. If any counterparty to our derivative instruments were to default or seek bankruptcy protection, it could subject a larger percentage of our future oil and natural gas production to commodity price changes and could have a negative effect on our ability to fund future projects. The fair value of our oil and natural gas derivative instruments outstanding as of September 30, 2012, was a liability of $172,271. A more thorough discussion of these derivative contracts, including risk of financial loss, is contained in Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Lower oil, NGL and natural gas prices or negative adjustments to oil, NGL and natural gas reserves may result in significant impairment charges. The Company has elected to utilize the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Exploration expenses, including geological and geophysical costs, rentals and exploratory dry holes, are charged against income as incurred. Costs of successful wells and related production equipment and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized by property using the unit-of-production method (the ratio of oil, NGL and natural gas volumes produced to total proved or proved developed reserves is used to amortize the remaining asset basis on each producing property) as oil, NGL and natural gas are produced. All long-lived assets, principally the Company’s oil and natural gas properties, are monitored for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset on our books may be greater than its future net cash flows. The need to test a property for impairment may result from declines in oil, NGL and natural gas sales prices or unfavorable adjustments to oil, NGL and natural gas reserves. Once assets are classified as held for sale, they are reviewed for impairment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, the Company cannot predict when or if future impairment charges will be recorded. If an impairment charge is recognized, cash flow from operating activities is not impacted, but net income and, consequently, shareholders’ equity are reduced. (7) Table of Contents Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil, NGL and natural gas in an exact way. Oil, NGL and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil, NGL and natural gas and assumptions concerning future prices of these commodities, future production levels, and operating and development costs. In estimating our reserves, we and our Independent Consulting Petroleum Engineering Firm make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to the level of oil, NGL and natural gas prices, future production levels, capital expenditures, operating and development costs, the effects of regulation and availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves (the economically recoverable quantities of oil, NGL and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties), the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. Our standardized measure of oil and natural gas reserves is calculated using the 12-month average price calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month individual product prices for each month within the 12-month period prior to September 30 held flat over the life of the properties and costs in effect as of the date of estimation, less future development, production and income tax expenses, and is discounted at 10% per annum to reflect the timing of future net revenue in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual development and production. The reserve estimates made for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. Further, our lack of knowledge of all individual well information known to the well operators such as incomplete well stimulation efforts, restricted production rates for various reasons and up to date well production data, etc. may cause differences in our reserve estimates. Because forward-looking prices and costs are not used to estimate discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves, the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil, NGL and natural gas reserves. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of our properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with the FASB statement on oil and natural gas producing activities disclosures may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company, or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Failure to find or acquire additional reserves will cause reserves and production to decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are (8) Table of Contents depleted. The Company’s proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced except to the extent that the Company acquires additional properties containing proved reserves, conducts additional successful exploration and development drilling, successfully applies new technologies or identifies additional behind-pipe zones (different productive zones within existing producing well bores) or secondary recovery reserves. The above activities are conducted with well operators, as the Company does not operate any of its wells. Future oil, NGL and natural gas production is therefore highly dependent upon the level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. Drilling for oil and natural gas invariably involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve a targeted rate of return. The Company relies on the operators’ seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying prospects and in conducting exploration and development activities. The seismic data and other technologies used do not allow operators to know conclusively prior to drilling a well whether oil, NGL or natural gas is present and may be commercially produced. Cost factors can adversely affect the economics of any project, and ultimately the cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is controlled by well operators and existing market conditions. Further, drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements, the cost and availability of drilling rigs, equipment and services and the expected sales price to be received for oil, NGL or natural gas produced from the wells. Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve various risks. The Company is subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failures, adverse weather conditions, fires, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil and natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. Other risks of operations include oilfield services shortages, equipment shortages, shortages of qualified oilfield workers, pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints, transportation interruptions and lack of processing access to gas plants. The Company maintains insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from well operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts believed by management to be prudent. However, this insurance does not protect it against all operational and environmental risks. For example, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance. Additionally, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant uninsured costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. Debt level and interest rates may adversely affect our business. The Company has a credit facility with Bank of Oklahoma (BOK) which consists of a revolving loan with a limit in the amount of $80,000,000. As of September 30, 2012, the Company had a balance of $14,874,985 drawn on the facility. The facility has a current borrowing base of $35,000,000, is secured by certain of the Company’s properties and contains certain restrictive covenants. Should the Company incur substantial indebtedness under its credit facility to fund capital projects or for other reasons, there is risk of it adversely affecting our business operations as follows: (9) Table of Contents • cash flows from operating activities required to service indebtedness will not be available for other purposes; • covenants contained in the Company’s borrowing agreement may limit our ability to borrow additional funds and pay dividends; • any limitation on the borrowing of additional funds may affect our ability to fund capital projects and may also affect how we will be able to react to economic and industry changes; and • a significant increase in the interest rate on our credit facility will limit funds available for other purposes. The borrowing base of our corporate revolving bank credit facility is subject to periodic redetermination and is based in part on oil, NGL and natural gas prices. A lowering of our borrowing base because of lower oil, NGL or natural gas prices, or for other reasons, could require us to repay indebtedness in excess of the borrowing base, or we might need to further secure the debt with additional collateral. Our ability to meet any debt obligations depends on our future performance. General economic conditions, prices and financial, business and other factors affect our future performance, and many of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants relating to our credit facility could result in a default, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future legislative or regulatory changes may result in increased costs and decreased revenues, cash flows and liquidity. Companies that operate wells in which Panhandle owns a working interest are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation. Panhandle, as a working interest owner, is therefore indirectly subject to these same regulations. New or changed laws and regulations such as those described below could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal Income Taxation Proposals to repeal the expensing of intangible drilling costs, repeal the percentage depletion allowance and increase the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses, if enacted, would increase and accelerate the Company’s payment of federal income taxes. As a result, these changes would decrease the Company’s cash flows available for developing its oil and natural gas properties. Hydraulic Fracturing The vast majority of oil and natural gas wells drilled in recent years have been, and future wells expected to be drilled are expected to be, hydraulically fractured as a part of the process of completing the wells and putting them on production. Some members of Congress have proposed legislation to either ban or further regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted or, if enacted, what its provisions would be. If legislation is passed to ban hydraulic fracturing, the number of wells drilled in the future will most likely drop dramatically, and the economic performance of those drilled will be negatively affected. Legislation imposing further regulation of hydraulic fracturing may result in increased costs to drill, complete and operate wells, as well as delays in obtaining permits to drill wells. Climate Change The EPA has proposed regulations for the purpose of restricting greenhouse gas emissions (10) Table of Contents from stationary sources. Such regulatory and legislative proposals to restrict greenhouse gas emissions, or to generally address climate change, could increase the Company’s operating costs as operators of wells, in which the Company owns a working interest, incur costs to comply with new rules. The increase in costs to the well operators, and ultimately the Company, as a working interest owner, could include new or increased costs to install new emissions control equipment, operate and maintain existing equipment, obtain allowances to authorize greenhouse gas emissions and pay greenhouse gas related taxes. There also could be an adverse effect on demand for oil, NGL and natural gas in the market place. Shortages of oilfield equipment, services, qualified personnel and resulting cost increases could adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil, NGL and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. There have also been shortages of drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing equipment and personnel and other oilfield equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil, NGL and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. These shortages or price increases could adversely affect the Company’s profit margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict its ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and most of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. We compete in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas acquisition, development, exploration and production. We face intense competition from both major and independent oil and natural gas companies in seeking to acquire desirable producing properties, seeking new properties for future exploration and seeking the human resource expertise necessary to effectively develop properties. We also face similar competition in obtaining sufficient capital to maintain drilling rights in all drilling units. A substantial number of our competitors have financial and other resources significantly greater than ours and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These companies are able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and are able to define, evaluate, bid for, purchase and subsequently drill a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit, effectively reducing our ability to participate in drilling on certain of our acreage as a working interest owner. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional quality properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully evaluate, select and acquire suitable properties and join in drilling with reputable operators in this highly competitive environment. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 