D. Risk Factors Specific Risks Affecting Elron If our cash resources are insufficient to finance our operations, we may be unable to obtain alternative sources of financing and consequently may be unable to invest in existing and new companies. Our financial resources are dependent upon the proceeds of realization of our holdings in our group companies, loans and credit lines, and receipt of dividends from our group companies, the distribution of these dividends may not always be economically sensible due to the tax consequences under the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 on distributions of some of our group companies, mainly Given Imaging – see Item 10E. "Taxation". In the absence of sufficient amounts of such financial resources, there is no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital for our activities and continued support of and investment in our existing and new companies. We have secured a $30 million credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank of which we utilized $5 million in 2012. At the time the credit line was utilized, we pledged shares directly held by us in Given Imaging in an amount equal to maintain a certain coverage ratio of the market value of the pledged shares to the amount of credit utilized. The market price of Given Imaging's shares is subject to fluctuations. To the extent that the share price of Given Imaging declines, we may be unable to fully utilize the credit line. Should the market value of the pledged shares decrease, and we are unable to pledge additional Given Imaging shares, provide alternative collateral or repay a portion of the credit utilized, the Bank may ask for immediate repayment. In such case, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to obtain alternative cash resources on satisfactory terms or at all. We may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, a company must register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as amended, or the 1940 Act, and comply with significant restrictions on operations and transactions with affiliates if it is engaged in the business of investing, owning, holding or trading securities and owns investment securities (as defined in the 1940 Act) exceeding 40% of the company's total assets, or if it holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing in, reinvesting or trading securities. The 1940 Act provides for various exemptions from the obligation to register thereunder, and in 1980 we received an order from the SEC, declaring that we are not an investment company under the 1940 Act. If certain of our investments were to adversely affect our status under the 1940 Act or if we were to cease to comply with the conditions of the order, we might need to dispose of or acquire other investments to avoid the requirement to register as an investment company on terms that may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we were deemed to be an investment company and therefore required to register as such under the 1940 Act, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do, as a result of which our market value could be severely harmed. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of our assets (averaged quarterly over our taxable year) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, then we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than capital gain rates. Similar rules apply to distributions that are classified as "excess distributions". In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts received as excess distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. A determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our ordinary shares. We believe that in 2012 we were not a PFIC. However, since the determination of whether we are a PFIC is based upon such factual matters as the valuation of our assets and, in certain cases, the assets of companies held by us, there can be no assurance with respect to the position of the IRS or a court of law as to our status as a PFIC. Our analysis is based, among other things, upon certain assumptions and methodologies with respect to the values that we have used; our percentage ownership (by value), and the appropriate value of our ownership interest, in companies we have held; and the manner in which we have allocated the aggregate value of our assets among our active assets and passive assets. 9 There is no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our assumptions and methodologies. If the IRS were to challenge successfully such assumptions or methodologies, we may potentially be classified as a PFIC for 2012 or prior taxable years. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in the future. In the event of a sale of our shares in Given Imaging, if such event were to occur in 2013, we would need to evaluate the impact thereof on our PFIC status (see "Item 4 - Information on the Company- History and Development of the Company- DIC Considering Sale of Controlling Block of Given Imaging"). U.S. holders of our shares are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the potential application and effects of the PFIC rules. See "Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company." It may be difficult to serve process or to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and our officers. Since all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, it may be difficult to effect service of process on us, our directors or officers within the United States. Furthermore, because most of our assets are located outside the United States, it may not be possible to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or the aforementioned individuals in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. Our principal shareholder, DIC, has the ability to direct our business and affairs. As of December 31, 2012, DIC beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 50.33% of our ordinary shares and accordingly has the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors. The majority of the members of our board of directors are officers or directors of DIC or of its controlling shareholders or affiliates of its controlling shareholders. Accordingly, DIC has the ability to direct our business and affairs. In addition, DIC's control over us may impose various regulatory restrictions on our activities. See risk factors below regarding anti-trust regulations, recommendations for increasing competitiveness in the Israeli economy, and Bank of Israel regulations on borrowing from Israeli banks. Furthermore, we entered into a Services Agreement with DIC pursuant to which, we receive substantially all of our managerial and administrative services through a staff employed by DIC within the framework of which a vice president of DIC serves as our Chief Executive Officer. The Services Agreement was renewed for an additional three year period commencing from May 1, 2012. For more information see "Item 7 – Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders." We have voluntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market and may in the future seek to terminate our Exchange Act registration. In view of the significant costs associated with maintaining a U.S. listing, our relatively limited number of U.S. holders of record and the fact that a substantial majority of the trading of our shares then occurred on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE, we voluntarily delisted our shares from the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, on January 6, 2010. As a result of our delisting, we are now required to comply with reporting requirements in accordance with both Israeli and applicable U.S. securities laws. To the extent that we comply with one of the deregistration conditions required under the applicable U.S. securities laws, it will be possible for us to effect a deregistration. The foregoing actions may have an adverse impact on the market price for our ordinary shares. If we are successful in terminating our Exchange Act registration, we will no longer be obligated to file reports with or furnish reports to the SEC, including annual reports on Form 20-F and reports on Form 6-K. After deregistration under the Exchange Act, we will continue to be governed by disclosure requirements under applicable Israeli law and regulations. For more information see "Item 4A – History and Development of the Company". 10 Risks Affecting Us and the Companies in Our Group Ongoing uncertainty regarding global and local economic conditions may adversely affect our and our group companies' results and financial condition and could lead to impairment charges. The developments in the global markets and particularly in the Euro zone and in the United States, which include securities' prices and currencies' exchange rate fluctuations, as well as domestic developments, have affected and may continue to affect our and our group companies' results of operations, liquidity, value of equity, value and exit potential of assets, business (including the demand for our group companies' products), financial covenants, ability to distribute dividends, ability to raise financing as required for day-to-day, long-term and R&D operations, allocation of resources, and availability and terms of financing from financial institutions and banks. Our financial results and financial condition are principally impacted by the results of operation of, and the value of our holdings in, our group companies, which are primarily concentrated in Given Imaging. As of December 31, 2012, the carrying amount of our holdings in our group companies represented approximately 69% of our total assets out of which the carrying amount of our holding in Given Imaging represented approximately 54%. We are exposed to the volatility of the market value of our holdings in public and private companies and particularly, the value of Given Imaging whose shares are traded on the Nasdaq and the TASE. The market values of companies operating in the high tech field have experienced significant volatility in the past. If our group companies experience difficulties in the future, or if there are adverse changes in their fair value or market value, we may need to write-down or write-off the carrying value of our holdings and our business and financial results and/or the value of our assets will be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the market value of Given Imaging and changes in the value of our holdings in our private group companies may have an adverse effect on our market value. Our financial results significantly depend on the results of operations of our group companies, which continue to invest heavily in their development and of which most have generated losses. Our results of operations are directly impacted by the results of operations of our group companies which are consolidated in our financial statements or are accounted for on an equity or fair value basis. To the extent any of these companies have poor financial results or encounter difficulties in their operations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Many of these companies are in the development stage and have not yet generated significant revenues, if at all, have incurred losses, and have invested heavily in research and development and marketing of their products. We anticipate that the majority of these companies will continue to record losses in the future. 11 Our financial results and our cash reserves are directly impacted by our ability to conclude "exit" transactions at significant values. Our financial results and cash reserves are directly impacted by our ability to conclude "exit" transactions for certain of the companies in our group. The impact of a global economic slowdown may adversely affect our ability to effect exit transactions at significant values. To the extent that worldwide market conditions in the high technology industry or other factors such as trends in the venture capital industry, do not permit us to conclude these types of transactions, our results and cash resources will be adversely affected. We compete with other entities for acquisition and investment opportunities. As part of our overall strategy, we pursue opportunities for acquisitions of, and investments in, Israeli companies and Israel-related technology companies. The success of a number of Israeli companies, has prompted potential investors to seek investment opportunities in Israel, which has allowed many Israeli high-technology companies to gain direct access to Israeli and foreign public securities markets and financial and strategic acquisition potentials. We compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other established and well-capitalized entities such as strategic investors (large technology companies which invest in their field of activity or tangential fields), venture capital funds, private equity funds and other investors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. Our failure to effect further acquisitions or investments in the future may hinder our ability to grow and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in companies in our group. We are subject to regulatory limitations, including lock up periods according to applicable securities laws, as well as contractual limitations, all of which may limit the possibilities for disposing of our holdings in our group companies. Rights of first refusal, tag-along, bring along, veto rights and similar rights which may restrict transfer of shares may limit our ability to dispose of our shares in our privately held group companies. Furthermore, due to the limitations of U.S. and Israeli securities laws, material non-public information in relation to our publicly traded group companies to which we may become exposed because of service of our members of personnel on the boards of directors of companies in our group, and contractual and legal limits on the tradability of the shares we own or control, may create difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in these companies in our group at a time and in a manner we deem suitable. Our ability to invest in companies or conclude exit transactions may be adversely affected and/or prevented by anti-trust regulations both in Israel and abroad. The Israeli and international anti-trust laws may adversely affect and even prevent our or our group companies' ability to invest in companies or to effect exit transactions. Certain of these transactions may be subject to the approval of the General Director of the Israeli Anti-Trust Authority, or the General Director, which approval may be denied or given with certain conditions. Due to the fact that IDB Development Corporation, or IDBD, holds more than 50% of our shares, any enquiry as to whether an investment transaction needs to be reported to or to receive the consent of the General Director is extensive in its scope taking into account other companies within the IDBD group of companies. In addition, since our group companies may become involved in or be the subject of cross border transactions, foreign anti-trust approvals in countries in which the parties to the transaction operate, such as the United States and Europe, may also be required, which may in turn delay or prevent such transactions from taking place. 12 Recent recommendations of the Israeli committee for increasing competitiveness in the economy may adversely affect our business. In July 2012, the Israeli Parliament approved the first reading of the government bill for promoting competitiveness and reducing concentration, which among other things, imposes restrictions and conditions regarding the holding of significant financial and non-financial companies (as defined in the bill) by the same controlling shareholder and regarding a significant non-financial company holding a significant financial company; and imposes restrictions on the control over companies that are reporting corporations (as defined in the Israel Companies Law) in a pyramid structure, by limiting the number of levels to three in existing structures (according to the bill, we and our group companies may be deemed as companies lower than the third level of the pyramid structure) and to two levels for a new pyramid structure. In addition, the bill includes provisions for strengthening the independence of the board of directors in public companies within a pyramid structure under certain circumstances. The implementation of this bill's provisions in legislation (several of which provisions provide transition periods of up to six years) particularly those pertaining to companies included in a pyramid structure, if so approved, may have a material adverse effect on us, considering, among other things, restrictions on the structure of our holdings, our control of public companies, our ability to purchase or dispose of holdings in public companies and the value of our holdings in such companies, our ability to bring our private group companies to effect public offerings of shares, the industries in which we shall operate, and so forth. In addition, the implementation of these provisions in legislation may affect the control structure of Elron. We have indemnification obligations which survive exit transactions and we may not receive the entire proceeds due to us from exit transactions of our group companies. During the execution of exit transactions, we, as shareholders of our group companies, and/or our group companies are often called upon to make representations and warranties to the acquirer about the relevant group company and to, under certain circumstances, indemnify the acquirer for damages should such representations or warranties prove to be inaccurate. In addition, a portion of the sale proceeds is often held in escrow as security for the indemnification obligations, which may expose us to the risk of ultimately not receiving all or part of such portion of the proceeds should the representations and warranties prove to be inaccurate. Also, certain proceeds may be contingent upon future performance of such companies following the exit transaction and over which we have no control and accordingly, there is no assurance that such proceeds will be ultimately paid to us in full or at all. Should we not receive the entire proceeds due to us from exit transactions of our group companies in the circumstances described above, it may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Regarding representations and deposit of moneys in escrow in connection with the sale transactions of Medingo, Teledata, Safend, Starling, Wavion and Sync-Rx, see "Item 4A – History and Development of the Company" below. 13 The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly over time. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: · any slowdown of the global economic condition; · the market price of our group companies that are publicly traded, in particular, Given Imaging; · low trading volume of our ordinary shares, which has decreased and may further decrease following our delisting from Nasdaq; · announcements by our group companies (or by us regarding our group companies), their competitors or other third parties of technological innovations, new products, regulatory developments, new clinical data regarding current or future products or earnings or losses; · delays or failures in the development of products of our group companies; · periodic variations in results of operations of our group companies; · factors that generally affect the market for stocks of medical device and other companies; · political, economic or other developments affecting Israel and its region; and · quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our financial results. Many of our group companies may face difficulties in obtaining future financing on favorable terms or at all. Many of our group companies are in the development stage and have extensive research and development and marketing costs and limited revenues, if any. In order to succeed, these companies may require additional capital to fund these costs. Their ability to obtain financing is impacted by the general economic condition, the condition of the capital markets and the condition of the venture capital industry. If these companies have difficulties obtaining financing from their current shareholders, or from external financing sources, their continued operations may be at risk and such difficulties may materially adversely affect their results of operations and financial performance. This would also adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. Bank of Israel regulations limit our and our group companies' ability to borrow from Israeli banks. Bank of Israel regulations limit the ability of Israeli banks to extend credit in excess of certain levels to companies and individuals considered to be in an associate group, which effectively limit the amount available to companies within such group for borrowing from such banks. We and our group companies are part of the IDBD group of affiliated companies, which is one of the largest groups of affiliated companies in Israel. The IDBD group includes many Israeli companies that may require, or that hold ownership interests in companies that may require, extensive credit facilities from Israeli banks for the operation of their businesses. These regulations may result in difficulties for us and our group companies in obtaining or increasing bank financing, if required, from Israeli banks, and may affect our and their ability to make investments for which bank credit is required or to invest in companies that received large credit facilities from certain Israeli banks as well as their ability to conduct certain business activities in cooperation with parties who received such credit facilities. 14 Our results, and the value of our investments, are affected by volatility in the securities markets. Securities markets in general are volatile, even more so with negative economic developments, and are particularly volatile for publicly traded high-technology companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies' securities is not necessarily related to their operating performance, such volatility may result in these companies experiencing difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses as well as difficulties in executing exit transactions in these companies. These difficulties and the volatility of the securities markets in general, and specifically during economic slowdowns, have affected and may continue to affect our and our group companies' ability to realize our investments or to raise financing, which in turn may result in us having to record impairment charges. There is no assurance that our subsidiary, RDC, will be able to continue to develop technologies and/or new companies. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, DEP, holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares and voting rights of RDC, which was established by DEP together with the predecessor of Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd., or Rafael, pursuant to an agreement entered into in 1993. RDC has first rights to commercialize certain technologies of Rafael for the development of products for use in non-military markets. For more information, see "Item 10C – Additional Information – Material Contracts." Our ability to continue to grow and develop and to build new companies within RDC could be harmed, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, if we are unable to realize the full potential value of RDC's agreement with Rafael as a result of any of the following: · Rafael does not cooperate with RDC in the realization of RDC's rights under the agreement; · Rafael or RDC does not identify existing technology, or Rafael does not develop new technology, that is identified suitable for being commercialized in non-military markets; · RDC does not reach agreement with Rafael on the terms of the use of technology for commercial purposes ; · RDC is unable to obtain continued financing from its shareholders or otherwise, if and when required; or · RDC faces difficulties in securing financial resources to support new and existing innovations. Most of our group companies are dependent upon proprietary technology, which may be infringed by, or may infringe upon, the proprietary technology of others. Most of our group companies depend significantly on their proprietary technology for their success. Like many other technology companies, most of these companies rely on a combination of protection laws within the field of patents, copyrights and trademarks together with non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality clauses in their agreements, including employment agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect proprietary rights in their products. However, these legal means may not adequately protect our group companies' rights or permit them to acquire or maintain any competitive advantage. The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in patents issued in a form that will be advantageous to our group companies, or at all, and patents and applications for patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. The life time of a patent is usually fixed for 20 years from the date of the filing of the application for registration of the patent. During the protection period, the patent holder is required, in certain countries, to pay periodic fees to maintain the rights in the patent. In some countries, there are special arrangements with respect to patents, in the framework of which the patent holder may, subject to the conditions set forth in the relevant legislation, apply for an extension of the patent period for an additional period of time over and above the original patent period. An extension application usually entails payment of fees and additional costs. There is no certainty that in the countries that allow an extension, it will indeed be granted at the end of the proceedings defined in the laws of such countries. In addition, there is no certainty that applications for the registration of a patent that shall have been filed by our group companies shall result in the registration of a patent and/or that there will be no attempts by third parties to challenge those patents registered by the companies, and even sue for the revocation thereof. In addition, the mere fact of a patent being registered does not prevent competitors of our group companies from manufacturing products which are identical to products of our group companies, but rather entitles patent holders to sue such infringing competitors for infringement of their registered patents. 15 Our group companies may not be able to enforce their proprietary rights under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Our group companies may not be able to successfully protect their technology because of, among other reasons: · Some foreign countries may not protect their proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States; · Competitors of our group companies may be issued patents that will prevent our group companies from using technologies, designs or methods that our group companies would like to integrate into their products; · Enforcing their rights may be time consuming and costly, thereby diverting management’s attention and company resources; · Measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements afford us and our group companies only limited protection; · Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our group companies' products and develop similar products or to obtain and use information that they regard as proprietary; and · Competitors may independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our group companies' products or that circumvent their intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert infringement claims against our group companies, which could have a material adverse impact on the group companies. In addition, the cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims are valid. If our group companies do not adequately protect their intellectual property, their competitors or other parties could make similar products and compete more efficiently with our group companies. If our group companies do not adequately protect their intellectual property as described above, it could materially adversely affect their business, their financial condition and their results of operations and as a result, this could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 16 The technological fields within which our group companies operate involve a high level of risk and uncertainty. Penetration into the technological fields within which our group companies operate involves a high level of risk and uncertainty and requires the investment of considerable sums of money and time. Our group companies may fail in either the development of their products including additional products or new applications based on developed platforms, expansion of the pipeline of products, manufacturing of the products, or obtaining the necessary approvals for commercializing the products and selling their products in significant quantities directly or through strategic partnerships or license agreements and maintaining a competitive advantage over time. The research and development of each product in its respective technological field within which our group companies operate, particularly companies in the medical device field, takes many years and requires the employment of high quality development personnel. Every product development project entails many scientific and engineering complexities and extensive technological know-how is required for the development of the product. The absence of technological and business know-how and suitable technological infrastructure may lead to a delay or failure in the product development. In addition, there is also the risk that after completion of the development and approval processes, a competitor may have developed superior technology, which gives it a competitive advantage. Furthermore it is difficult to transition from development stage to marketing and manufacturing stage operations, including establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities and establishing sales and marketing infrastructure. The ability to penetrate markets in circumstances where there is no competing product is also dependent on the ability of our group companies to educate their potential customers of the possibilities for the use of the product and its advantages. Delays, difficulties or failures associated with developing, manufacturing, or marketing products, or associated with new product introductions or product enhancements, could materially adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of these companies and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operation. Many of our group companies experience intense competition. Many of our group companies experience competition from companies with significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, who have easier market access, better operational infrastructure, longer operating histories, larger installed client bases, greater name recognition, more established relationships and alliances in their industries and offer a broader range of products and services. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in clients' requirements, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive products and services pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products and services. If our group companies are unable to successfully compete, their businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, and as a result could also negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Israeli government programs in which certain of our group companies participate may be terminated or reduced in the future and may be restrictive in their terms. Certain of our group companies participate in programs of the Office of the Israeli Chief Scientist, or, the OCS, and the Israel Investment Center, from which they receive grants of between 20% and 50% of the research and development expenses and other benefits for the financing of a portion of their research and development expenditures in Israel. In consideration for receiving a grant from the OCS, the company receiving the grant, or, the Recipient Company, is obligated to pay the OCS royalties from the revenues generated from the sale of products (and related services) or services developed (in all or in part) according to, or as a result of, a research and development program funded by the OCS (at rates which are determined under the Israeli Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984 and related regulations, or the R&D Law), up to the aggregate amount of the total grants received by the OCS, plus annual interest (as determined in the R&D Law). Any intellectual property developed using the OCS grants and any right derived therefrom must be fully and originally owned by the Recipient Company unless transfer thereof is approved in accordance with provisions of the R&D Law. 17 The terms of such OCS programs may restrict the ability of our group companies which received funds from the OCS to manufacture products and/or transfer know-how or technologies outside of Israel (as further detailed below). The benefits available under these programs depend on our group companies meeting specified conditions. There is no assurance as to availability or the level of the OCS grants in the future. The Recipient Company is subject to certain obligations under the R&D Law. The pertinent obligations are as follows: · Local Manufacturing Obligation: Products developed as a result of OCS funded R&D must, as a general matter, be manufactured in Israel. The transfer of manufacturing capacity outside of Israel, in whole or in part, is subject to the OCS's prior written approval (except for the transfer of less than 10% of the manufacturing capacity in the aggregate) and the payment of royalties at an increased rate (between 120% and 300% of the amount of the grant (depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel), less royalties already paid to the OCS). A company also has the option of declaring in its OCS grant application an intention to exercise a portion of the manufacturing capacity abroad, thus avoiding the need to obtain additional approval. Under the R&D Law it is clarified that even in the case where approval has been granted to manufacture outside Israel within the framework of approval of an R&D plan and in the case of the transfer of manufacturing at a rate that does not require the approval of the research committee (i.e. at a rate of up to 10%), a company is obligated with regard to the transfer of manufacturing outside of Israel, to pay increased royalties to the State of Israel, at the rates set forth in the R&D Law. · Know-How transfer limitation: The R&D Law restricts the ability to transfer know-how funded by the OCS outside of Israel. Transfer of OCS funded know-how outside of Israel requires prior OCS approval and is subject to certain payment to the OCS calculated according to formulae provided under the R&D Law. The OCS approval to transfer know-how created, in whole or in part, in connection with an OCS-funded project to a third party outside Israel where the transferring company remains an operating Israeli entity is subject to payment of a redemption fee to the OCS calculated according to a formula provided under the R&D Law that is based, in general, on the ratio between the aggregate OCS grants to the company’s aggregate investments in the project that was funded by these OCS grants, multiplied by the transaction consideration. The transfer of such know-how to a party outside Israel where the transferring company ceases to exist as an Israeli entity is subject to a new redemption fee formula that is based, in general, on the ratio between aggregate OCS grants received by the company and the company’s aggregate R&D expenses, multiplied by the transaction consideration. This new formula was enacted recently and came into effect in November 2012. The new formula establishes a maximum payment of the redemption fee paid to the OCS under the above mentioned formulas and differentiates between two situations: : (i) in the event that the company sells its OCS funded know-how, in whole or in part, or sells it as part of an M&A transaction, and subsequently ceases to conduct R&D activity in Israel, the maximum redemption fee under the above mentioned formulas shall be no more than 6 times the amount received (plus annual interest) for the applicable know-how being transferred, and not less than the entire amount received (less royalties paid), as applicable; (ii) in the event that following the transactions described above (i.e. asset sale of OCS funded know-how or transfer as part of an M&A transaction) the company continues to conduct its R&D activity in Israel (for at least three years following such transfer and keeps on staff at least 75% of the R&D employees it retained for the six months before the know-how was transferred), then the company is eligible for a reduced cap of the redemption fee of no more than 3 times the amounts received (plus annual interest) for the applicable know-how being transferred, and not less than the entire amount received (less royalties paid), as applicable. 18 It should be noted that there is no assurance that our group companies will receive the required approvals from the OCS for any proposed transfer outside of Israel of technology and/or know-how developed with OCS funding, if such will be required. In the event that group companies which received grants from the OCS, request to manufacture OCS funded products outside Israel or to sell their OCS funded know-how or a part thereof to a non-Israeli entity, including within the framework of the sale of that company or its assets, the approval of the OCS will be required and this will involve additional payments to the State of Israel. The restrictions under the R&D Law will continue to apply even after our relevant group companies have repaid the full amount of royalties payable pursuant to the grants. The restrictions, among others, may limit the ability of our group companies that receive grants to conclude transactions with international companies, including "exit" transactions. In addition, if our group companies fail to comply with the conditions imposed by the OCS, they may be required to refund the grants received immediately together with interest and penalties, and if they violate the provisions of the R&D Law, they may also be subject to criminal charges. In addition, the Government of Israel may from time to time audit sales of products which it claims incorporate technology funded through OCS programs and this may lead to additional royalties being payable on additional products. This may materially adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our group companies and as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the OCS is in the process of exploring the possibility of promulgating regulations, including the consideration due to the State of Israel for the granting of licenses to use know-how developed as a result of research financed by the OCS. Such regulations may have an effect on us and our group companies receiving OCS grants, in respect of the amount of their payments to the OCS for the grant of sub-licenses to third parties. As of the date of filing of this Annual Report, we are unable to assess the effect, if any, of the promulgation of such regulations on our group companies. 19 We and our group companies may have difficulty retaining key employees. The success of our group companies depends, in large part, on a limited number of key personnel in the management, scientific, technological and technical fields. In addition, future success will depend, in part, on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and There can be no assurance that our group companies will be able either to retain present personnel or to acquire additional qualified personnel as and when needed. The loss of the services of key personnel of our group companies and the failure to attract highly qualified personnel may materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operation and as a result, our financial condition and results of operation may be materially adversely affected. We also depend, inter alia, on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel including those who can also serve effectively as directors of our group companies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract optimally qualified personnel to provide such services to us, which could have a negative impact on our financial conditions and results of operation. Certain of our group companies depend on international operations. Most of our group companies depend on sales to customers outside of Israel. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of these companies' revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, negative changes in international, political, economic or geographic events could result in significant shortfalls in orders or revenues. These shortfalls could cause the business, financial condition and results of operations of these companies to be harmed and as a result negatively impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks of doing business internationally include: · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · international geographical events; · fluctuation of the New Israeli Shekel / U.S. Dollar representative rate of exchange; · inability of our group companies and their subcontractors to obtain export licenses; · imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; · political and economic instability; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and · acts of terror. Some of these factors, such as the ability to obtain export licenses and changes in diplomatic relations, may be affected by Israel's overall political situation. See "Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies." In addition, the economic and political stability in the countries where our group companies' major customers and suppliers are located may also impact our group companies’ business. 20 Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies. We and most of our group companies conduct principal operations in Israel and therefore are directly affected by the political, economic, and military conditions affecting Israel and the Middle East. In particular, we could be adversely affected by: · any major hostilities involving Israel; · increasing tension with Iran; · a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; · the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; · a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel; · a significant downgrading of Israel's international credit rating; · labor disputes and strike actions; and · political instability. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel, including among others, periodic disruption of day-to-day civilian activity in different parts of Israel. Armed conflicts in recent years with both Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, and Hamas, a Palestinian Islamic Resistance Movement, have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. Any further escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region could have a negative effect on our and our group companies' business and financial condition, harm our and our group companies’ results of operations and adversely affect our share price or the share prices of our group companies that are publicly traded. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the region's problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel's economic development. Our and our group companies' operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under a specified age, as a general rule, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. Our operations and those of our group companies could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our or our group companies' personnel. While we and our group companies have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. The results of operations of our group companies may be harmed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that our group companies are based in Israel and have international operations, or operate only in Israel but conduct their business in different currencies, their revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, are not necessarily in the same currency and therefore they are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. In particular, our functional currency, as well as that of most of our group companies, is the U.S. dollar. However salaries and related expenses of our expenses as well as expenses related to the DIC Service Agreement (See "Item 7 – Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders") and other operating expenses are denominated in NIS. If the NIS should strengthen against the U.S. dollar, it will harm our and our group companies' results of operations and cash resources. We hold a significant portion of our cash balances in dollars, however, in the future, changes may take place from time to time in the amounts of these balances, in how we maintain our cash, and the portion of cash we hold in each currency, based on business developments and future decisions. 21 Product liability claims could adversely affect the business results of our group companies, especially those operating in the medical device industry. Product liability is an inherent risk for our group companies operating in the medical device industry. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to a group company and a substantial diversion of management attention. A product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm a group company's reputation and result in a decline in revenues. Substantial damages awards have been made in some jurisdictions against medical device companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. There can be no assurance that a future product liability claim or series of claims brought against our group companies would not have a material adverse effect on their financial condition or the results of operations, or that coverage limits of product liability insurance would be adequate. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Product regulation may adversely affect the ability of our medical device group companies to bring new products to market or to continue to supply existing products to the market. Our medical device group companies are subject to strict government controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of products, including with regard to financial arrangements and kickbacks to financial institutions and healthcare officials. They must obtain and maintain regulatory approval for their products from regulatory agencies before products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. Each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements and delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patents and products of competitors and related patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are only a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of product registration. Noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can require the investment of more time and resources in the development of products, and can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar regulatory actions which could limit product sales, delay or halt product shipment, delay new product clearance or approval, and thereby materially adversely affect such group companies' businesses. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because the medical device industry is litigious, our medical device group companies are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause our medical device group companies to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit them from selling their products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Whether or not a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management's attention from the concerned company’s core business as well as result in the payment of damages or even prevent the concerned company from selling its products and accordingly could materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operation and as a result this could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 22 If our medical device group companies are unable to obtain reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using their products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing their products, demand for their products may be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for products produced by our medical device group companies, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our medical device group companies' products or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers as compared with alternative procedures, our medical device group companies may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support their businesses. In addition, our medical device group companies could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement amounts or availability for procedures in which their products are used. Accordingly, this could materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operations and as a result could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of healthcare, could materially adversely the business of our medical device group companies. To the best of our knowledge, in reliance on publications, in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act were signed into law in the United States. These laws, or the PPACA, introduce changes that are expected to impact the medical device industry. One of the principal aims of the PPACA as currently enacted is to expand health insurance coverage to approximately tens of millions of Americans who are uninsured. The consequences of these significant coverage expansions on the operations of our group companies are unknown and speculative at this point. The PPACA contains a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues which are necessary to fund the coverage expansions among other things. This includes new fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers, such as significant new taxes on medical device makers in the form of a 2.3% excise tax on all U.S. medical device sales beginning in 2013. This significant increase in the tax burden on the medical device industry could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our cash flows We expect that the PPACA, as well as other federal or state health care reform measures that may be adopted in the future could limit the prices our medical device group companies are able to charge for their products or the amounts of reimbursement available for their products, and could limit the acceptance and availability of their products, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our medical device group companies' results of operations and financial performance. This could also adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. 23 The development of products by our group companies in the medical device field is dependent upon the success of clinical trials. The continued development of many of the products being developed by our group companies engaged in the medical device field, is dependent upon the performance of clinical trials and subject to, and contingent upon, the success of such trials at each one of the regulatory stages. The performance of clinical trials is dependent upon a variety of factors, including the ability to recruit appropriate candidates for such trials. A slower than expected pace of recruiting and/or a delay in recruiting candidates for the trials may derive from various factors, such as low incidence of patients meeting the trial’s criteria, competition between companies over the participation of trial candidates, a change in candidates’ readiness to volunteer for the trial and lack of funds. Furthermore, the need for the consent of various clinical research bodies for the performance of the trials, receipt of the regulatory approvals for performance of the trials, and the structure of the trials (trial protocol, manner of analysis of results etc.), regulatory changes, as well as the possibility of unexpected side effects of the group companies’ products may all constitute obstacles in the path to successful completion of the clinical trials, and may delay or even stop the continued performance of the clinical trials and lead to postponement of receipt of the approvals and permits as aforesaid. Therefore, it is impossible to know when clinical trials will be completed, if at all. Accordingly this could materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operation and as a result could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our medical device companies experience significant uncertainty at the research and development stage. Most of our medical device companies are in the research and development stage. In light of the uncertainty that they will succeed in developing their various products, in demonstrating their products efficiency, safety, and cost-benefit, and/or in penetrating relevant markets, in the event of the failure in the technological development of products of our group companies and/or the failure to obtain the required approvals from the authorized regulatory authorities in order to market their products and/or successfully penetrate into the relevant market, our investment in these companies may ultimately be lost and as a result could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Given Imaging The following risk factor sections have been condensed for the purposes of this Annual Report. The risks associated with Given Imaging are more fully described in documents filed by Given Imaging with the SEC. The price of Given Imaging's shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including varying quarterly financial performance or its failure to meet its guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in its share price. Given Imaging's ordinary shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq in October 2001 and on the TASE in March 2004. In 2012, the closing price of its shares has ranged from $12.69 to $19.79 per share on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and NIS50.33 to NIS75.23 on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange. The price of Given Imaging's shares could fluctuate significantly for, among other things, the following reasons: macroeconomic or general market conditions, future announcements concerning Given Imaging or its competitors, the existence and outcome of litigation concerning its intellectual property assets, changes in third-party reimbursement practices, regulatory developments, and new clinical or economic data regarding its current or future products and political and national security environment in Israel. See also "Item 4A – History and Development of the Company" regarding DIC's intention to seek and consider possibilities to sell the controlling block of Given Imaging. In addition, it is Given Imaging's practice to provide guidance to the market as to its expected revenues and earnings per share based on information available to it at the time of the guidance. If Given Imaging's operating results do not meet its guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of Given Imaging's shares would likely decline. In addition, based on Given Imaging's experience to date, Given Imaging believes that many of its customers delay purchasing its products until the end of the fiscal quarter because they believe this will enable them to negotiate more favorable terms. Therefore, revenues from sales are concentrated at the end of each fiscal quarter making it difficult for Given Imaging to estimate the success of each quarter prior to its end. This may result in lower than expected quarterly revenues if external or other events cause potential customers to defer their purchasing decisions even for a short period of time. Furthermore, Given Imaging believes that demand for its products may be materially affected by seasonal factors during the summer months when physicians and administrators are more likely to postpone purchasing decisions due to summer vacations and patients are more likely to postpone less urgent medical procedures until later in the year. Both of these factors may result in slower sales during the summer. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated by low trading volume and the concentration of ownership of Given Imaging's ordinary shares and changes in trading practices in its ordinary shares, such as short sales. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their shares. Any securities litigation claims brought against Given Imaging could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from its business. 24 If Given Imaging is unable to manufacture, market or sell any of its main products, its growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. A substantial portion of Given Imaging's revenues to date has resulted from sales of the PillCam SB capsule and to a lesser extent from sales of the Bravo system and Given Imaging's high resolution manometry products. Given Imaging expects that a majority of its revenues for the foreseeable future will continue to come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $116.6 million, or 65% of its revenues in 2012, $117.6 million, or 66% of its revenues in 2011 and $110.2 million, or 70% of its revenues in 2010. If Given Imaging is unable to manufacture, market or sell any of its main products, and PillCam SB in particular, for any reason, including, for example, product recall, natural disaster, unavailability of components, hostilities in Israel or as a result of a legal action against Given Imaging, Given Imaging's revenue growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Given Imaging's future growth depends in part on its ability to market the PillCam SB capsule for additional indications other than obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. To date, the PillCam SB capsule, which accounts for a significant majority of Given Imaging's revenues, has been used primarily for detection of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, or OGIB. Given Imaging's ability to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule for the detection and monitoring of additional small bowel indications, such as Crohn's disease, depends substantially on its ability to provide clinical evidence and economic analysis supporting such expanded use, its ability to educate and train its customers on these expanded use opportunities and its ability to obtain favorable and effective reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule for small bowel indications beyond OGIB. If Given Imaging is unable to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule beyond OGIB, sales of the PillCam SB capsule may decline or may not increase. 25 If Given Imaging is unable to market and sell its PillCam COLON capsule its revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Given Imaging does not have regulatory clearance to market and sell PillCam COLON in the United States or Japan, two of its largest markets, and to date Given Imaging has had only limited sales of its PillCam COLON capsule, primarily in countries relying on the CE mark certification system. There can be no assurance that Given Imaging will be able to receive clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or the approval of the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, or MHLW, for this capsule in the foreseeable future or at all or that the PillCam COLON will be accepted as comparable or superior to existing technologies for visualization of the colon. In addition, any regulatory clearance or approval may be limited to specific indications only and may be more limited than the clearances and approvals for which Given Imaging applied. Given Imaging’s ability to market and sell the PillCam COLON successfully, depends on one or more of the following: · Given Imaging's ability to develop and introduce new technologies that will improve the clinical effectiveness of the PillCam COLON capsule; · Receipt of FDA marketing clearance in the United States or regulatory approvals in other large markets such as Japan; · The existence of clinical data sufficient to support the use of the PillCam COLON for visualization of the colon as compared with other colon visualization methods. Physicians may be reluctant to use this product without supportive clinical data and literature; · The time it takes the physician to read the video captured by the PillCam COLON capsule; · The level of professional education and hands-on training of medical staff in performing the PillCam COLON procedure and reading and interpreting the images captured by the capsule, since the procedure and the reading are different than what many medical staff is used to with colonoscopy; · The availability of sufficient clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the American Medical Association, or AMA, to provide a favorable permanent "current procedural terminology", or CPT, code and for private third-party payors to make an adequate reimbursement decision to provide coverage for the PillCam COLON procedure; · The availability of a reliable colon cleansing and preparation procedure for the PillCam COLON capsule, which is accepted by physicians and patients; and/or · The absence of other safe and effective colon cancer diagnostic or screening products, which, if brought to market by third parties, may make the PillCam COLON capsule obsolete. If Given Imaging is unable to achieve one or more of the above, it may not be able to market and sell the PillCam COLON capsule and its revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. 26 If Given Imaging is unable to complete additional acquisitions or to grow acquired businesses, its revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. In the last few years,Given Imaging's revenue growth has been largely due to acquisitions, primarily the April 2010 acquisition of Sierra Scientific Instruments LLC, now known as Given Imaging (Los Angeles) LLC, 2010, and the 2008 acquisition of the Bravo business. In October 2012, Given Imaging acquired substantially all of the assets of The Smart Pill Corporation, which Given Imaging expects such assets to generate several million additional dollars in revenue in 2013. At the same time, Given Imaging's revenues from sales of capsule endoscopy equipment have not grown in the manner it had expected. If Given Imaging is unable to complete additional acquisitions or to grow acquired businesses, its revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Acquisitions, launches of new products and other factors may have material adverse effect on Given Imaging's gross margins and profitability. The principal factors affecting Given Imaging's gross margins are the volume of sales of its products, the sale prices, the product mix and the percentage of its sales made as direct sales. Given Imaging's average gross margins over the last three fiscal years were 76.4%. Given Imaging's gross margins in 2012 were 76.2% compared to 76.7 % in 2011 and 76.2% in 2010. There is no assurance Given Imaging will be able to maintain or increase its gross margins. Given Imaging's gross margins may be materially adversely affected if it acquires products having lower gross margins than its current products, if Given Imaging launches a new product having lower gross margins than its existing products, if it reduces its prices due to promotional activities, competition or otherwise, or if its productivity declines for any reason. If Given Imaging's gross margins decline, its profitability may be adversely affected. If Given Imaging is unable to establish a robust, high volume manufacturing process for PillCam COLON before obtaining regulatory clearance in the United States and/or Japan, it may be unable to meet demand for this product. To date, Given Imaging has been manufacturing its PillCam COLON capsule in a fixture-assisted manufacturing process, which is sufficient to meet the current demand for this product that is not yet cleared for marketing in the large markets of the United States and Japan. This capsule includes several components that are based on new technologies and are difficult to manufacture and some are being supplied to Given Imaging by single source suppliers. If Given Imaging is unable to develop or purchase manufacturing equipment, expand the number of suppliers for components of the PillCam COLON capsule or establish a robust, high volume manufacturing process for this capsule, Given Imaging may be unable to meet demand for this capsule when demand increases, as it expects, if it is able to obtain regulatory clearances in the United States and/or Japan. Given Imaging may lose market share and its revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected due to competition. Olympus Corporation has a competing capsule endoscopy system for the small bowel, which it is selling in the United States, Europe, Japan Australia and other countries. In addition, other companies are selling capsule endoscopy systems for the small bowel in Europe, Asia and Australia and possibly other countries and may be selling these systems at a lower price than Given Imaging's price. Given Imaging also has a number of competitors in and outside the United States in the field of manometry and pH measurement. If Given Imaging is unable to compete effectively in the marketplace, Given Imaging may lose market share, experience delays in completing sales as a result of a longer decision making process among potential customers, or experience erosion of its gross margins as a result of price pressure. 27 Given Imaging faces competition from large, well-established manufacturers of traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders, as well as from gastrointestinal products in general that compete for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Competition for Given Imaging's capsule endoscopy products also comes from traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders and diseases, such as traditional endoscopy and radiological imaging. The principal manufacturers of gastrointestinal endoscopes are Olympus, Hoya and Fuji Film. The principal manufacturers of equipment for radiological imaging are General Electric Healthcare Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions, a division of Siemens AG, Philips Medical Systems Ltd. and Toshiba Corporation. These companies have substantially greater financial resources than does Given Imaging, and they have established reputations as well as worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to physicians. If Given Imaging is unable to convince physicians to adopt its capsule endoscopy products over the current technologies marketed, its results of operation may suffer. In addition to competition from products performing similar clinical functions to Given Imaging's products, there is also competition for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Another capital equipment item for gastroenterology may compete with Given Imaging’s products for the same capital budget, which is typically limited, and therefore the potential purchaser may be required to choose between the two items of capital equipment. If Given Imaging is unable to market its products more effectively than other products which could be purchased using the same budget as the PillCam platform, Given Imaging may be unable to maintain its current growth rate. If Given Imaging is unable to introduce new capsules and products for use in the gastrointestinal tract, its growth may be negatively affected. Given Imaging's objective is to expand the use of its capsule endoscopy and other products for a variety of indications. Given Imaging intends to develop and introduce new capsules and products. There can be no assurance that Given Imaging will be able to develop new products that will enjoy widespread market acceptance as superior to existing technologies for detection of abnormalities in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or that can be used in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, Given Imaging may be required to obtain FDA clearance in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before commercially distributing the PillCam platform for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract. These regulatory processes can be lengthy and expensive, and Given Imaging cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and in order to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of new products, Given Imaging may be required to conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the diagnostic and cost-effectiveness of these new products. If future clinical trials indicate that new products are not as clinically-effective or as cost-effective as current methods, or that they may cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, Given Imaging may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell these new products or obtain reimbursement coverage, and its growth could be adversely affected. 28 Any disruption to our operations or market in the United States, the primary market for Given Imaging's products, may result in a material reduction in Given Imaging’s revenues and negatively affect its results of operations. Since its inception, most of Given Imaging’s revenues in a single geographic market have been generated from sales in the United States. Sales in the United States accounted for 109.5 million, or 61% in 2012, $104.6 million, or 59%, of its revenues in 2011 and $97 million, or 61%, of its revenues in 2010. Any disruption to Given Imaging's market in the United States resulting from changes in management or the sales team of Given Imaging's U.S. subsidiary (Given Imaging, Inc.), adverse changes in reimbursement policies, new regulatory requirements, macro-economic changes and other events, many of which are outside Given Imaging's control, may result in a material reduction in its revenues and negatively affect its operating results. If Given Imaging is unable to successfully market and sell its products in China or Japan, two of Given Imaging's significant potential growth opportunities may be materially and adversely affected. Given Imaging sells its capsule products in Japan through a combination of its own sales force and local distributors, and in China through local distributors. Given Imaging's ability to increase penetration into the Japanese and Chinese markets and grow its business depends significantly on its relationship with its distributors, its ability to expand indications for the use of its products and its ability to obtain regulatory clearance for additional products other than PillCam SB. See "Item 4B – Information on the Company – Business Overview – Given Imaging". Finally, Given Imaging's main competitor in the field of capsule endoscopy is based in Japan and competition in the Asia-Pacific region is intense. If Given Imaging is unable to successfully market and sell its products in China and Japan for any of the foregoing or other reasons, Given Imaging's significant potential growth opportunities for Given Imaging in those countries may be materially and adversely affected. Given Imaging's reliance on single source suppliers could harm its ability to meet demand for the PillCam platform in a timely manner or within budget. Given Imaging depends on single source suppliers for some of the components necessary for the production of its products. For example, Given Imaging has sole suppliers for the imaging sensor and transmitter of its PillCam capsules and the printed circuit boards embedded in the capsule of the Bravo system. If the supply of these components is disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers are unable to supply the quantities of components that Given Imaging requires, Given Imaging may not be able to find alternative sources for these key components. Although Given Imaging maintains a strategic inventory of key components, the inventory may be insufficient to satisfy demand for its products if supply is interrupted, and is subject to risk of loss due to catastrophic events such as fire at a storage facility. As a result, Given Imaging may be unable to meet demand for its products, which could harm its ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage its reputation. If Given Imaging is required to change the manufacturer of any of these key components, there may be a significant delay in locating a suitable alternative manufacturer. Additionally, Given Imaging may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with FDA and other applicable quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the selection of a new manufacturer could delay Given Imaging's ability to manufacture its product in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, in the event that the manufacturer of a key component of Given Imaging's product ceases operations or otherwise ceases to do business with Given Imaging, Given Imaging may not have access to the information necessary to enable another supplier to manufacture the component. The occurrence of any of these events could harm Given Imaging's ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. 29 Given Imaging may be materially adversely affected by the imposition and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations. Given Imaging is subject to legislation and regulation by government agencies responsible for environmental and health laws and policies in the jurisdictions in which Given Imaging conduct its operations. For example, Given Imaging's research and development and manufacturing processes involve the handling of potentially harmful hazardous materials, and it is subject to laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of these materials under European Directive 2011/65/EU, known as RoSH. In addition, Given Imaging is required to comply with European Union Directive 2012/19/EC, entitled Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), EC No 1907/2006, entitled Registration Evaluation Authorization of Chemicals (REACH) and the European Directive 2006/66/EC, entitled Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries and Accumulators. If Given Imaging is found to have violated environmental laws or regulations, whether as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes, it could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions which could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in these laws and regulations, or changes in their enforcement, could also adversely impact Given Imaging by increasing its cost of compliance or operations. In addition, new laws or additional regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, could require Given Imaging to spend additional funds on related matters in order to stay in compliance, thus increasing its costs and having an adverse effect on its results. Given Imaging may also be banned from selling non-compliant products in certain jurisdictions, which could adversely affect its financial results. 30 Below is a table grading the influence of the above described risk factors on the Company. Risk Factor Influence on the Company Major Influence Medium Influence Minor Influence Specific Risks Affecting Us If our cash resources are insufficient to finance our operations, we may be unable to obtain alternative sources of financing and consequently may be unable to invest in existing and new companies. ü We may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. ü If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. ü It may be difficult to serve process or to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and our officers. ü Our controlling shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation, or DIC, has the ability to control our business and affairs. ü We have voluntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market and may in the future seek to terminate our Exchange Act registration. ü Risks Affecting Us and the Companies in Our Group Ongoing uncertainty regarding global and local economic conditions has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our and our group companies' results and financial condition and could lead to impairment charges ü Our financial results and financial condition are principally impacted by the results of operation of, and the value of our holdings in, our group companies, which are primarily concentrated in Given Imaging. ü Our financial results significantly depend on the results of operations of our group companies, which continue to invest heavily in their development and have generated losses. ü Our financial results and our cash reserves are directly impacted by our ability to conclude "exit" transactions at significant values, which has been made more difficult by the global economic downturn. ü We compete with other entities for acquisition and investment opportunities. ü We may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in companies in our group. ü Our ability to invest in companies or conclude exit transactions may be adversely affected and/or prevented by anti-trust regulations both in Israel and abroad. ü Recent antitrust legislation passed in Israel imposing restrictions on concentrated groups may adversely affect our business. ü We have indemnification obligations which survive exit transactions and may not receive the entire proceeds due to us from exit transactions of our group companies. ü The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. ü Many of our group companies may face difficulties in obtaining future financing on favorable terms or at all. ü Bank of Israel regulations limit our and our group companies' ability to borrow from Israeli banks. ü 31 Risk Factor Influence on the Company Major Influence Medium Influence Minor Influence Our results, and the value of our investments, are affected by volatility in the securities markets. ü There is no assurance that our subsidiary, RDC, will be able to continue to develop technologies and/or new companies. ü Most of our group companies are dependent upon proprietary technology, which may be infringed by, or may infringe upon, the proprietary technology of others. ü The technological fields within which our group companies operate involve a high level of risk and uncertainty. ü Many of our group companies experience intense competition. ü Israeli government programs in which certain of our group companies participate may be terminated or reduced in the future and may be restrictive in their terms. ü We and our group companies may have difficulty retaining key employees. ü Certain of our group companies depend on international operations. ü Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies. ü Our and our group companies' operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. ü The results of operations of our group companies may be harmed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. ü Product liability claims could adversely affect the business results of our group companies, especially those operating in the medical device industry. ü Product regulation may adversely affect the ability of our medical device group companies to bring new products to market or to continue to supply existing products to the market. ü Because the medical device industry is litigious, our medical device group companies are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause our medical device group companies to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit them from selling their products. ü If our medical device group companies are unable to obtain reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using their products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing their products, demand for their products may be adversely affected. ü Changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of healthcare, could materially adversely the business of our medical device group companies. ü The development of products by our group companies in the medical device field is dependent upon the success of clinical trials. ü Uncertainty experienced by our medical device companies during the research and development stage ü Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Given Imaging ü 32 