risk factors in “Item 3 – Key Information – Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. PART I Item 1. Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers Not applicable. Item 2. Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not applicable. 4 Item 3. Key Information Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, of which the financial statements as of December 31, 2005 and 2006, and for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 appear later in this Annual Report. The audited consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The following selected financial data shows our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheet data for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. The selected consolidated statements of operations financial data for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003 and the balance sheet data for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, not included in this Annual Report. You should read the following selected financial data together with “Item 5 –Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” of this Annual Report, “Item 8 Financial Information” of this Annual Report and our consolidated financial statements together with the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements with respect to the computation of basic and diluted net earnings (loss) per ordinary share. Consolidated statements of operations (in thousands of U.S. Dollars ("U.S. Dollars", "U.S. $" or "$"), except share and per share data) Year ended December 31 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Income: Net revenues $ 5,110 $ 9,157 $ 11,265 $ 12,646 $ 12,863 Equity in losses of affiliated companies (24,189 ) (8,698 ) (10,492 ) (17,522 ) (17,740 ) Gain from disposal of businesses and affiliated companies and changes in holdings in affiliated companies, net 6,888 25,754 132,396 23,328 2,547 Other income (expenses), net (747 ) 14,637 4,749 58,648 29,310 Financial income, net 1,480 751 1,433 5,483 4,051 (11,458 ) 41,601 139,351 82,583 31,031 Costs and Expenses: Cost of revenues 2,903 5,862 6,791 7,907 6,625 Research and development costs, net 2,265 3,263 2,889 6,163 11,758 Marketing and selling expenses, net 5,268 6,498 1,311 2,386 4,717 General and administrative expenses 7,568 12,872 12,292 9,249 12,995 Restructuring costs 396 - - - - Amortization of intangible assets 269 299 142 392 18 Impairment of intangible assets - - 4,192 - - (18,670 ) (28,794 ) 27,617 26,097 36,113 5 Year ended December 31 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Income (loss) before tax benefit (taxes on income) (30,128 ) 12,807 111,734 56,486 (5,082 ) Tax benefit (taxes on income) 2,961 (6,796 ) (15,101 ) (10,461 ) (1,110 ) Income (loss) after taxes (27,167 ) (6,011 ) 96,633 46,025 (6,192 ) Minority interest in losses (income) of subsidiaries 2,823 (10,907 ) (4,135 )) 5,160 9,224 Net income (loss) from continuing operations (24,344 ) (4,896 ) 92,498 51,185 3,032 Net loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (17,235 ) (2,309 ) (8,365 ) (3,850 ) - Net income (loss) $ (41,579 ) $ (7,205 ) $ 84,133 $ 47,335 $ 3,032 Net income (loss) per share: Basic - Income (loss) from continuing operations $ (0.93 ) $ (0.17 ) $ 3.26 $ 1.74 $ 0.10 Loss from discontinued operations (0.65 ) (0.08 ) (0.39 ) (0.13 ) - Net income (loss) $ (1.58 ) $ (0.25 ) $ 2.86 $ 1.61 $ 0.10 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in computing basic net income (loss) per share (in thousands) 26,272 29,194 29,266 29,437 29,532 Diluted - Income (loss) from continuing operations $ (0.93 ) $ (0.17 ) $ 3.25 $ 1.73 $ 0.07 Loss from discontinued operations (0.65 ) (0.08 ) (0.39 ) (0.13 ) - Net income (loss) $ (1.58 ) $ (0.25 ) $ 2.86 $ 1.60 $ 0.07 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in computing diluted net income (loss) per share in thousands) 26,272 29,194 29,385 29,550 29,624 Dividend paid per share $ - $ - $ - $ 3.00 $ - As of December 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Balance Sheet Data ( in thousands of $) Cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long term investments $ 99,735 $ 119,769 $ 188,106 $ 143,798 $ 128,733 Investments in affiliated companies and in other companies and long term receivables 221,338 285,618 273,053 176,711 168,607 Total assets 394,253 450,704 501,156 353,773 326,249 Shareholders’ equity 259,441 296,130 389,080 302,116 297,504 Capital stock 284,583 328,477 337,294 291,445 283,801 B. Capitalization and Indebtedness Not applicable. C. Reasons for the Offer and Use of Proceeds Not applicable. 6 D. Risk Factors Risks Affecting Us and the Companies in Our Group Our financial results and financial condition are principally impacted by the results of operations, and the value of our holdings in, our group companies. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our share in the results of operations of our group companies and our gain upon the sale of shares in our group companies accounted for substantially all of our income. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, our holdings in group companies represented approximately 52% of our total assets. If our group companies experience difficulties in the future, or if there are adverse changes in their market price or fair value, our financial results and/or the value of our assets will be adversely affected, and we may need to write-down or write-off the carrying value of our holding or record the share in our group company’s loss. In particular, as of December 31, 2006, the carrying value of our holdings in Given Imaging Ltd. (Nasdaq:GIVN) or Given Imaging, represented approximately 22% of our total assets, and NetVision Ltd. (TASE: NTSN), or NetVision, represented approximately 4.4% of our total assets. Any adverse change in the results of operations or financial condition of Given Imaging or of our other group companies whose results we consolidate or account for on an equity basis, or any substantial adverse change in the market value of shares in Given Imaging may have a substantial negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our performance significantly depends on the results of operations of our group companies. Our results of operations are directly impacted by the results of operations of our group companies accounted for under the equity or consolidation method. To the extent any of these companies have poor financial results or encounter difficulties in their operations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Many of these companies have not yet generated significant revenues, have incurred losses and have invested heavily in research and development and marketing of their products. We anticipate that the majority of these companies will continue to record losses in the future. Our financial results are directly impacted by our ability to conclude profitable “exit” transactions. Our financial results are directly impacted by our ability to conclude profitable “exit” transactions for certain of the companies in our group. If worldwide market conditions in the technology industry or other factors do not permit us to conclude these types of transactions, our results will be adversely affected. We may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in publicly traded companies in our group. Due to the limitations of U.S. securities laws, material non-public information to which we may become exposed because of our representation on the boards of directors of companies in our group, and contractual and legal limits on the tradability of the shares, we may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in publicly traded companies in our group at a time and in a manner we deem suitable. Our market value significantly depends on the market values of publicly traded companies in our group. Our market value is directly impacted by the market values of publicly traded companies in our group, and in particular, by the market value of Given Imaging, whose shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE, and the market value of NetVision whose shares are traded on the TASE. 7 To the extent that the share price of Given Imaging or NetVision declines, our market value will be negatively impacted. The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. The market value of our ordinary shares has fluctuated over time. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: the market price of our group companies that are publicly traded, in particular, Given Imaging and NetVision; low trading volume of our ordinary shares; our group companies, their competitors or other third parties announcing technological innovations, new products or earnings or losses; periodic variations in results of operations of our group companies; factors that generally affect the market for stocks of medical device, telecommunications, semiconductor and clean technology companies; political, economic or other developments affecting Israel; global economic and other external factors; and quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our financial results. Many of our group companies may face difficulties in obtaining future financing on favorable terms or at all. Many of our group companies have extensive research and development and marketing costs and limited revenues, if any. In order to succeed, these companies may require additional capital to fund these costs. If these companies have difficulties obtaining financing from their current shareholders, which may also include additional investments by us in these companies, or from new financing sources, their continued operations may be at risk. This would adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. Bank of Israel regulations limit our and our group companies’ ability to borrow from Israeli banks. Bank of Israel regulations stipulate lending limits of Israeli banks to companies and individuals considered to be in an affiliated group, which effectively limit the amount available to such affiliated group to borrow from such banks. We and our group companies are part of the IDB affiliated group of companies, which is one of the largest groups of affiliated companies in Israel. The IDB group includes many Israeli companies that may require, or that hold ownership interests in companies that may require, extensive credit facilities from Israeli banks for the operation of their businesses. These regulations may result in difficulties for us and our group companies in obtaining bank financing, if required. Our results may be affected by volatility in the securities markets. Securities markets in general are volatile, and they are particularly volatile for high-technology companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies’ securities is not necessarily related to their operating performance, these companies may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. These difficulties and the volatility of the securities markets in general may also affect our and our group companies’ ability to realize investments. 8 The downturn experienced by the technology markets in which our group companies operate may recur. Our group companies are affected by the demand for the technologies and technology products they develop and produce. The technology sector has previously experienced a prolonged and severe downturn, reflected in a steep decline in technology spending, which resulted in revenue declines for our more mature companies and difficulties in raising financing for our early stage companies. There is no assurance that a downturn will not recur or that the technology sector will continue to grow. If a downturn recurs, our and our group companies’ operations will be adversely affected. We compete with other entities for acquisition and investment opportunities. As part of our overall strategy, we pursue acquisitions of, and investments in, Israeli companies and Israel-related technology companies. The success of a number of Israeli companies, particularly in information and communications technology and medical devices, has prompted potential investors to seek investment opportunities in Israel, which has allowed many Israeli high-technology companies to gain direct access to Israeli and foreign public securities markets. We compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other established and well-capitalized entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. Our failure to consummate further acquisitions or investments in the future may hinder our ability to grow and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that our subsidiary, RDC, will be able to continue to develop successful technologies and/or new companies. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, DEP, holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares and voting rights of RDC, which was established by DEP together with Rafael Armaments Development Authority Ltd. (“Rafael”), pursuant to an agreement entered into between DEP and Rafael in 1993. RDC has first rights to exploit commercially technologies of Rafael for the development of products for use in non-military markets. These first rights are dependent primarily upon RDC’s or Rafael’s identification of existing technologies for commercial uses, or the development by Rafael of new technologies; Rafael’s willingness to transfer the necessary human or other resources to the development and exploitation commercially of its technology in non-military markets; and RDC reaching agreement with Rafael on the terms of any commercial exploitation. In September 2006, Rafael instituted litigation proceedings against DEP and RDC regarding the scope of RDC’s rights and the period of the agreement between RDC and Rafael. The matter has been referred to mediation. In parallel, the parties are holding informal discussions in an effort to reach a mutually acceptable solution; however, there is no assurance that such discussions will be successful in achieving such a solution. For more information, see “Item 8 – Financial Information –Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” Our ability to continue to grow and develop new technologies within RDC could be harmed, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, if we are unable to realize the full potential value of RDC’s agreement with Rafael as a result of any of the following: Rafael and RDC do not resolve their respective claims against each other in a manner that would enable RDC to continue the commercial exploitation of Rafael’s technologies; 9 Rafael does not cooperate with RDC in the realization of RDC’s rights under the agreement; Rafael or RDC does not identify existing technology, or Rafael does not develop new technology, that can be commercially exploited in non-military markets; Rafael does not transfer human or other resources necessary for the development and exploitation commercially of this technology in non-military markets; RDC does not reach agreement with Rafael on the terms of any commercial exploitation; or RDC is unable to rely on continued financing by its shareholders, if and when required. Most of our group companies are dependent upon proprietary technology, which may be infringed, or may infringe, upon the proprietary technology of others. Most of our group companies depend significantly on their proprietary technology for their success. Like many other technology companies, most of these companies rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, together with non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality clauses in their agreements, including employment agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect proprietary rights in their products. However, these legal means may not adequately protect our group companies’ rights or permit them to acquire or maintain any competitive advantage. These companies may not be able to enforce their proprietary rights under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Our group companies may not successfully protect their technology because, among other reasons: Some foreign countries may not protect their proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States; The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in patents issued in a form that will be advantageous to our group companies, or at all, and patents and applications for patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties; Competitors of our group companies may be issued patents that will prevent our group companies from using technologies, designs or methods that our group companies would like to integrate into their products; Enforcing their rights may be time consuming and costly, thereby diverting management’s attention and company resources; Measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements afford us only limited protection; Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of their products and develop similar products or to obtain and use information that they regard as proprietary; and 10 Competitors may independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to their products or that circumvent intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert infringement claims against our group companies, which could have a material adverse impact on the group companies. In addition, the cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims are valid. If our group companies do not adequately protect their intellectual property, their competitors or other parties could make similar products and compete more efficiently with our group companies. Many of our group companies experience intense competition. Many of our group companies experience competition from companies with significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, who have easier market access, better operational infrastructure, longer operating histories, larger installed client bases, greater name recognition, more established relationships and alliances in their industries and offer a broader range of products and services. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in clients’ requirements, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive products and services pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products and services. If our group companies are unable to successfully compete, their businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our group companies may experience delays in product development. Companies in our group involved in technology product development may experience delays in development, which may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. Delays and difficulties associated with new product introductions or product enhancements could negatively impact the business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations of these companies and, as a result, our financial results. Israeli government programs in which certain of our group companies participate may be terminated or reduced in the future. The terms of such programs restrict the ability of our group companies to manufacture products and/or transfer technologies outside of Israel. Certain of our group companies participate in programs of the Office of the Israeli Chief Scientist, or the OCS, and the Israel Investment Center, for which they receive grants and tax related and other benefits for the financing of a portion of their research and development expenditures in Israel. The benefits available under these programs depend on our group companies meeting specified conditions. If our group companies fail to comply with these conditions, they may be required to pay additional taxes and penalties, and they may be denied future benefits. In recent years, the Government of Israel has reduced the benefits available under these programs. There is no assurance that these benefits will be available in the future at their current levels or at all. Under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, and related regulations, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer outside of Israel of technology developed with OCS funding in addition to compliance with certain other conditions. There is no assurance that our group companies will receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: 11 Our group companies could be required to pay the OCS a portion, to be determined by the OCS under applicable law, of the consideration received upon any sale of such technology or group company to an entity that is not Israeli. The scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the technology was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price, will be taken into account in order to calculate the amount of the payment; and The transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties (up to 300% of the amount of the grant plus interest, depending on the percentage of the manufacturing transferred outside of Israel). These restrictions will continue to apply even after our relevant group companies have repaid the full amount of royalties payable pursuant to the grants. These restrictions may limit the ability of our group companies to conclude transactions with international companies, including “exit” transactions. In addition, if our group companies fail to comply with the conditions imposed by the OCS, they may be required to refund the grants received immediately, rather than by way of royalties together with interest and penalties, and they may also be subject to criminal charges. In addition, the Government of Israel may from time to time audit sales of products which it claims incorporates technology funded through OCS programs which may lead to additional royalties being payable on additional products. We and our group companies may have difficulty retaining key employees. Our success and the success of our group companies depend, in large part, on a limited number of key management, scientific and technical personnel. In addition, future success will depend, in part, on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we or our group companies will be able either to retain present personnel or to acquire additional qualified personnel as and when needed. The loss of the services of our key personnel or those of our group companies and the failure to attract highly qualified personnel may have a negative impact on our business. Many of our group companies depend on international operations. Many of our group companies depend on sales to customers outside of Israel. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of these companies’ revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, changes in international, political, economic or geographic events could result in significant shortfalls in orders or revenues. These shortfalls could cause the business, financial condition and results of operations of these companies to be harmed. Some of the risks of doing business internationally include: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; fluctuation of the New Israeli Shekel / U.S. Dollar representative rate of exchange; inability of our group companies, their subsidiaries and subcontractors to obtain export licenses; 12 imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; political and economic instability; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and acts of terror. Some of these factors, such as the ability to obtain export licenses and changes in diplomatic relations, may be affected by Israel’s overall political situation. See “Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies.” In addition, the economic and political stability in the countries where our group companies’ major customers and suppliers are located may also impact our group companies’ business. Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies. We and most of our group companies conduct principal operations in Israel, and therefore are directly affected by the political, economic, and military conditions affecting Israel and the Middle East. In particular, we could be adversely affected by: any major hostilities involving Israel; a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel; a significant downgrading of Israel’s international credit rating; labor disputes and strike actions; and political instability. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Any further escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region could have a negative effect on our and our group companies’ business and financial condition, harm our and our group companies’ results of operations and adversely affect our share price or the share prices of our group companies that are publicly traded. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development. Our and our group companies’ operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel in Israel to perform military service. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under a specified age, as a general rule, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. Our operations and those of our group companies could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our or our group companies’ officers or employees. While we and our group companies have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess 13 what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. The results of operations of our group companies may be harmed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that our group companies are based in Israel and have international operations, or operate only in Israel but conduct their business in different currencies, their revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, are not necessarily in the same currency and therefore they are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. These fluctuations may negatively affect their results of operations. Our group companies may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete. Some of our group companies currently have non-competition agreements with substantial numbers of their employees who are involved in research and development. In many cases, these employees are located primarily in Israel. These agreements prohibit the company’s employees, if they cease working for the company, from directly competing with the company or working for its competitors. Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If any of our group companies cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to it, the company may be unable to prevent its competitors from benefiting from the expertise of its former employees. Product liability claims could adversely affect the business results of our group companies operating in the medical device industry. Product liability is an inherent risk for our group companies operating in the medical device industry. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to a group company and a substantial diversion of management attention. A product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm a group company’s reputation and result in a decline in revenues. Substantial damages awards have been made in some jurisdictions against medical device companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. There can be no assurance that a future product liability claim or series of claims brought against our group companies would not have an adverse effect on their business or the results of operations, or that product liability insurance would be adequate. Product regulation may adversely affect the ability of our medical device group companies to bring new products to market or to continue to supply existing products to the market. Our medical device group companies are subject to strict government controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of products. They must obtain and maintain regulatory approval for their products from regulatory agencies before products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. Each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements and delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patents and products of competitors and related patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are only a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of product registration. Noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar regulatory actions 14 which could limit product sales, delay or halt product shipment, delay new product clearance or approval, and adversely affect such group companies’ results of operations. Because the medical device industry is litigious, our medical device group companies are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause our medical device group companies to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit them from selling their products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from the company’s core business. See below under “Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Given Imaging.” If our medical device group companies are unable to obtain reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using their products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing their products, demand for their products may be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for products produced by our medical device group companies, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our medical device group companies’ products or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers as compared to alternative procedures, our medical device group companies may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support their businesses. In addition, our medical device group companies could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement amounts or methods for procedures in which their products are used. Our telecommunications group companies operate in a highly regulated telecommunications market, which limits their flexibility to manage their businesses. The telecommunications market is subject to government regulation regarding licensing, competition, frequency allocation and costs and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. The business and operations of our group companies which operate in this market, primarily NetVision and Starling Advanced Communications Ltd, or Starling (TASE:STLG), could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting their business activities. Furthermore, NetVision and its subsidiary, NetVision 013 Barak Ltd., or, Barak (formerly Barak I.T.C (1998) International Telecommunications Services Corp Ltd., a subsidiary of Clal Industries and Investments Ltd., or CII), conduct their operations pursuant to licenses granted by the Israeli Ministry of Communications. These licenses are subject to revocation in accordance with their terms, and the terms of the licenses are subject to change by the Ministry of Communications (including by imposing additional requirements). Israeli Telecommunications companies are exposed to consumer class action lawsuits. Telecommunications companies in our group serve numerous subscribers on a daily basis. As a result of the scope and magnitude of their operations, NetVision and Barak are subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, by consumers. These actions may be costly to defend and could result in significant judgments against NetVision and Barak. The Israeli Class Actions Law, 2006 and the 2005 amendment to the Israeli Consumer Protection Law, 1981 include provisions that expand the causes of action for which a class of litigants may bring 15 suit, including with regard to any damages allegedly incurred prior to the effective date of these laws, and reduce the minimal requirements for certification of a class action lawsuit and the qualifications required to be a lead plaintiff in a class action lawsuit. These laws may increase the number of requests for certification of class actions against NetVision and Barak and their legal exposure and legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect their financial results. The semiconductor industry in which certain of our group companies operate is cyclical in nature and is characterized by ongoing changes. The semiconductor industry has historically been a highly cyclical industry. Companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand. This expansion has frequently resulted in overcapacity and excess inventories during periods of downturn, thereby adversely impacting upon the results of operations of our group companies operating in the semiconductor field. In addition, the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid ongoing changes, including: (1) changes in customers’ capacity requirements and capital spending, which depend in part on customers’ inventory levels relative to demand for their products; (2) the importance of driving down cost of ownership of systems; (3) more complex technology requirements and possible disruptive technologies that from time to time could make current technologies irrelevant for the future or require significant development efforts; (4) the increasing significance of consumer electronics as a driver for chip demand and the related focus on lower prices; (5) varying levels of business information technology spending; (6) the growing types and varieties of integrated circuits and applications; (7) a rising percentage of business from customers in Asia and emergence of customers and competitors in new geographical regions; and (8) higher capital requirements for new semiconductor fabrication plants. If our semiconductor companies do not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, their businesses, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Specific Risks Affecting Elron We may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, a company must register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, and comply with significant restrictions on operations and transactions with affiliates if its investment securities exceed 40% of the company’s total assets, or if it holds itself out as being primarily engaged in the business of investing in, owning or holding securities. The 1940 Act provides for various exemptions from the obligation to register thereunder, and in 1980 we received an order from the SEC, declaring that we are not an investment company under the 1940 Act. If certain of our investments were to adversely affect our status under the 1940 Act, we might need to dispose of or acquire other investments to avoid the requirement to register as an investment company on terms that may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we were deemed to be an investment company and therefore required to register as such under the 1940 Act, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do, as a result of which our market value would be severely harmed. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, 16 if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than the capital gain rate. In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts received as distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any given year, then dividends paid in that year and in the next year cannot qualify as “qualified dividends,” which are eligible for the capital gains rate for certain U.S. shareholders. A determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our ordinary shares. Following the sale of our shares in Elbit Systems Ltd., or Elbit Systems, in 2004, we announced that, as a result of the transaction, we may be characterized as a PFIC for 2004. Following a review of our position and consulting with our advisors on this matter in 2004, and based on certain assumptions and facts known at that time (which we believe have not changed), we believe there is substantial authority for the position that we can rely on the “change of business” exception to PFIC status provided under Section 1298(b)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Substantial authority is generally sufficient to support a return reporting position. Pursuant to this exception, in order to avoid PFIC status in 2004, among other requirements, we cannot be a PFIC in 2005 or 2006 or in any year prior to 2004 (which we believe was not the case). We believe that in 2005 and 2006 we were not a PFIC. However, since the determination of whether we are a PFIC is based upon such factual matters as the valuation of our assets and, in certain cases, the assets of companies held by us, there can be no assurance with respect to the position of the IRS or a court of law as to our status as a PFIC. Our analysis is based, among others, upon certain assumptions and methodologies with respect to the values that we have used; our percentage ownership (by value), and the appropriate value of our ownership interest, in companies we have held; and the manner in which we have allocated the aggregate value of our assets among our active assets and passive assets. There is no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our assumptions and methodologies. If the IRS were to challenge successfully such assumptions or methodologies, we would potentially be classified as a PFIC for 2006 or prior years. In view of the above, we believe that there is substantial authority for the position that the “change of business” exception was ultimately satisfied for 2004(as noted above, substantial authority is generally sufficient to support a return reporting position). We cannot assure shareholders that the IRS will not challenge our reliance on the “change of business” exception or our assumptions used in determining our percentage of passive assets and income. If there are such challenges, we could be classified as a PFIC for 2004, even if we are not a PFIC in 2005 and 2006. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in the future. See “Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations –Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 17 U.S. holders of our shares are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules. One of our shareholders beneficially owns a substantial amount of our ordinary shares, and therefore has a significant influence on our affairs. As of May 31, 2007, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd., or DIC, beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 49% of our ordinary shares and has the ability, in effect, to elect the members of our board of directors and to significantly influence our business. A majority of the members of our board of directors are officers or directors of DIC or its parent company, IDB Development Corporation Ltd., or IDBD, or its parent company, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd. , or IDBH. On May 16, 2007, DIC filed with the SEC, a preliminary statement on a Schedule TO-C stating that it is considering purchasing additional shares of Elron, representing up to approximately 10% of our outstanding shares, by way of a tender offer or in another manner. No timing, size or terms of such purchase have been determined and there is no assurance that such purchase will take place. It may be difficult to serve process or to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and our officers. Since all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, it may be difficult to effect service of process on us, our directors or officers within the United States. Furthermore, because most of our assets are located outside the United States, it may not be possible to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or the aforementioned individuals in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Given Imaging The following risk factor sections have been condensed for the purposes of this Annual Report. The risks associated with Given Imaging are more fully described in documents filed by Given Imaging with the SEC. The price of Given Imaging’s shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including varying quarterly financial performance or its failure to meet its guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in its share price. Given Imaging’s ordinary shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market in October 2001 and on the TASE in March 2004. In 2006, the closing price of its shares ranged from $14.46 to $28.37 per share on the Nasdaq Global Market and the New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”) 65.02 to NIS132.60 on the TASE. The price of Given Imaging’s shares could fluctuate significantly for, among other things, the following reasons: future announcements concerning Given Imaging or its competitors, the existence and outcome of litigation concerning Given Imaging’s intellectual property assets, changes in third-party reimbursement practices, regulatory developments and new clinical or economic data regarding Given Imaging’s current or future products. In addition, it is Given Imaging’s practice to provide guidance to the market as to its expected revenues and earnings per share based on information available to Given Imaging at the time of the guidance. If Given Imaging’s operating results do not meet its guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of Given Imaging’s shares would likely decline. In addition, based on Given Imaging’s experience to date, it believes that many of its customers delay purchasing its products until the end of the fiscal quarter because they believe this will enable them to negotiate more favorable terms. Therefore, 18 revenues from sales may be concentrated at the end of each fiscal quarter, making it difficult for Given Imaging to determine the success of each quarter until quarter end. This may result in lower than expected quarterly revenues if external or other events cause potential customers to defer their purchasing decisions even for a short period of time. Furthermore, Given Imaging believes that demand for systems and capsules may be materially affected by seasonal factors during the summer months (a) when physicians and administrators are more likely to postpone purchasing decisions due to summer vacations and (b) when patients are more likely to postpone less urgent diagnostic procedures until later in the year. Both of these factors may result in slower sales during the summer. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated by low trading volume of Given Imaging's ordinary shares and changes in trading practices in its ordinary shares, such as short selling. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their shares. Any securities litigation claims brought against Given Imaging could result in substantial expense and divert attention of Given Imaging’s management away from its business. If Given Imaging fails to increase PillCam SB capsule reorders by gastroenterologists, it may not be able to achieve the growth rate it expects. Since sale of Given Imaging’s PillCam SB, capsule for detection of disorders of the small bowel accounts for a substantial majority of its revenues, the level of reorders of its PillCam SB capsule by Given Imaging's customers is an important factor in growing its revenues. Given Imaging is seeking to increase the level of reorders by a number of methods, including increased selling and marketing activities, more frequent contact with customers, attaining reimbursement coverage for broader indications and as a primary diagnostic tool, generating supporting clinical evidence and educating physicians regarding the clinical benefits of the PillCam capsule, increasing operating efficiencies of its system to the benefit of physicians and collaborating with strategic industry participants. Increasing the level of reorders by customers is also important to attracting new customers to purchase and use the Given System. If Given Imaging is unable to increase the level of reorders of its PillCam SB capsule, it may not be able to achieve the revenues necessary to maintain its growth. If Given Imaging is unable to manufacture, market or sell the PillCam SB capsules, Given Imaging may not be able to sustain its current annual growth rate. A substantial portion of Given Imaging's annual revenue growth to date has resulted from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Given Imaging expects that a substantial majority of its revenues for the foreseeable future will come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule and other PillCam capsules. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $41.6 million, or 64%, in 2004, $62.5 million, or 72%, in 2005 and $76.4 million, or 80%, in 2006 of Given Imaging’s total revenues. If Given Imaging is unable to manufacture, market or sell the PillCam SB for any reason, including, for example, product recall, natural disaster, war in Israel or as a result of a legal action against Given Imaging, Given Imaging’s revenues may decline significantly. Given Imaging’s future growth depends in part on its ability to market the Given System and the PillCam SB capsule as a primary diagnostic tool for a variety of disorders of the small intestine. The Given System and the PillCam SB capsule have been cleared for marketing by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, for the detection of disorders of the small intestine. To date, sales of the Given System and of PillCam SB capsules have accounted for the significant majority of Given Imaging’s revenues. Given Imaging’s ability to market and sell its line of PillCam capsules is highly dependent on the availability and 19 adequacy of third-party reimbursement for the procedures performed with the Given System. Most reimbursement policies today cover the small bowel capsule endoscopy procedure only after a previous procedure, such as endoscopy or radiology has been performed. Given Imaging’s ability to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule for indications beyond obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, or OGIB, depends substantially on its ability to convince third-party payors to provide reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule as a primary diagnostic tool for additional indications, such as suspected Crohn’s disease, without the requirement to perform a preceding procedure, such as endoscopy or radiology. If Given Imaging is unable to obtain such reimbursement coverage, sales of the PillCam SB capsule may not increase as Given Imaging expects. If the sales of the number of Given Systems declines, Given Imaging may not be able to achieve broader market penetration or may choose to place systems in the market at a discounted price, and its revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected. Given Imaging’s principal product is the Given System, consisting of a line of PillCam capsules and the related data recorder and computer workstation. As of December 31, 2006, Given Imaging had an installed base of nearly 3,500 systems worldwide. Growth in the installed base of Given Systems has contributed to Given Imaging’s revenue growth. Given Imaging’s success in making or increasing sales of the Given System depends on a number of factors. First, Given Imaging must demonstrate that the Given System is clinically-effective and cost-effective in diagnosing a range of disorders of the gastrointestinal tract, and Given Imaging must inform and educate both physicians and the third-party payors responsible for providing reimbursement coverage about the clinical and economic benefits of using the Given System. Second, Given Imaging must broaden the indications for which the use of the Given System is reimbursed, expand the number of people with such reimbursement coverage and educate healthcare providers as to the clinical and economic benefits of using the Given System for such broader indications so that they are encouraged to adopt the Given System. Third, Given Imaging must continue to improve operational efficiencies of the Given System and demonstrate and convince gastroenterologists that the Given System fits within their normal practice routines. If the sales of the number of Given Systems declines, Given Imaging may not be able to achieve broader market penetration or may choose to place systems in the market at a discounted price, in which case Given Imaging’s revenues and gross margins will be negatively affected. Growth in sales of Given Imaging’s PillCam ESO capsule depends in part on the success of Ethicon Endo-Surgery in marketing this capsule in the United States. InScope, a division of Ethicon Endo-Surgery, a Johnson & Johnson company established to market products to the gastroenterology market, has exclusive rights to market Given Imaging's PillCam ESO capsule (for the purpose of visualizing the esophagus) in the United States. Consequently, Given Imaging’s future growth depends in part on the success of InScope in doing so. The results of Given Imaging’s cooperation with InScope since signing the agreement have not met Given Imaging’s expectations, and Given Imaging and InScope have taken a number of actions in an effort to improve sales of the PillCam ESO capsule, including the transfer to Given Imaging of InScope’s initial responsibility to obtain a dedicated CPT code for the esophageal capsule endoscopy procedure and shifting the initial focus of the InScope personnel from selling activities to market development activities. Sales of the PillCam ESO capsule in 2006 were insignificant and may continue to be lower than Given Imaging expects if InScope is not 20 successful in marketing the PillCam ESO capsule. This may negatively impact Given Imaging’s revenue growth. Growth in sales of Given Imaging’s PillCam ESO capsule also depends in part on the availability and adequacy of third-party reimbursement for the esophageal capsule endoscopy procedure. Given Imaging’s ability to market and sell its PillCam ESO capsule is highly dependent on the availability and adequacy of third-party reimbursement for the procedures performed with this capsule. As of January 31, 2007, approximately 6.6 million individuals in the United States had reimbursement coverage for using the esophageal capsule endoscopy procedure in the detection of esophageal varices, a condition prevalent in cirrhotic patients. Reimbursement coverage for the use of PillCam ESO in the detection of Gastro-Esophageal Reflux Disease, or GERD, which is more prevalent in the general population than varices, is not expected before additional clinical data supporting such use is available. Given Imaging’s ability to expand the use of the PillCam ESO capsule depends substantially on Given Imaging’s ability to convince additional third-party payors to provide reimbursement coverage for this capsule for the varices indication, the adequacy of such coverage and Given Imaging’s ability to generate and present clinical data supporting reimbursement for the varices and GERD indications. If Given Imaging is unable to obtain such reimbursement coverage, sales of the PillCam ESO capsule may not grow as Given Imaging expects or at all. If Given Imaging is unable to market and sell its PillCam COLON capsule, it may miss a significant market opportunity and may not grow as it expects. In late 2006, Given Imaging completed the development of its new PillCam COLON capsule for visualization of the colon and received the CE mark that permits it to market and sell this capsule in Europe. Given Imaging also submitted this capsule for FDA clearance in the United States. Given Imaging intends to market and sell this capsule as a complementary tool for traditional colonoscopy for patients who are unable or unwilling to undergo traditional colonoscopy or have an incomplete colonoscopy. Given Imaging believes this population represents a significant growth opportunity for it. There can be no assurance of widespread market acceptance of the PillCam COLON as comparable or superior to existing technologies for visualization of the colon. Given Imaging’s ability to market and sell the PillCam COLON successfully, depends on one or more of the following: Its ability to complete the development and successfully market and sell a further advanced version of its RAPID software, referred to by Given Imaging as RAPID 5.0. RAPID 5.0 will be required for optimal performance of capsule endoscopy of thecolon. Given Imaging expects that RAPID 5.0 will be commercially available by thefourth quarter of 2007, having received FDA approval to market and sell RAPID 5.0in the United States in May 2007; Receipt of FDA marketing clearance in the United States. Given Imaging cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, Given Imaging will be required to demonstrate that the PillCam COLON is safe and effective for its intended purpose; The existence of clinical data sufficient to support the use of the PillCam COLON for visualization of the colon as compared to other colon visualization methods. If 21 clinical trials indicate that PillCam COLON is not as clinically-effective as othercurrent methods, or if the PillCam COLON procedure causes unexpectedcomplications or other unforeseen negative effects, Given Imaging may not obtainregulatory clearance to market and sell this capsule; The availability of sufficient clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the American Medical Association, or AMA, to provide a favorable permanent “current procedural terminology”, or CPT, code and for private third-party payors to make an adequate reimbursement decision to provide coverage for the PillCam COLON procedure; and/or The availability of a reliable colon cleansing and preparation procedure for the PillCam COLON capsule, which is accepted by physicians and patients. If Given Imaging is unable to achieve one or more of the above, it may not be able to market and sell the PillCam COLON capsule or the demand for the PillCam COLON may be lower than expected and sales of PillCam COLON may not contribute to its growth at the rate Given Imaging expects or at all. Given Imaging faces direct competition from manufacturers of capsule endoscopy systems and may lose market share if Given Imaging is unable to compete effectively in the marketplace. In October 2005, Olympus Corporation, or Olympus, launched a competing capsule endoscopy system and began sales in Europe and Australia. Based on publicly available information, Olympus is also conducting clinical trials in the United States and has submitted an application to the FDA seeking clearance to market its capsule endoscopy system in the United States. In addition, Given Imaging believes that other companies in Korea and China began selling capsule endoscopy systems in these territories in 2005 and are selling these systems at a lower price than Given Imaging is selling its systems. If Given Imaging is unable to compete effectively in the marketplace against the Olympus capsule endoscopy system and other competing systems, Given Imaging may lose market share, experience delays in completing sales as a result of a longer decision making process among potential customers, or experience erosion of its gross margins as a result of growing price pressure. Given Imaging faces competition from large, well-established manufacturers of existing technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders, as well as from gastrointestinal products in general that compete for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Competition for the Given System also comes from existing technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders and diseases. Existing technologies include traditional endoscopy and radiological imaging. The principal manufacturers of gastrointestinal endoscopes are Olympus, Pentax, and Fujinon Corporation, or Fujinon. Given Imaging recently signed a cooperation agreement with Fujinon. See "Item 4 – Business Overview – Given Imaging". The principal manufacturers of equipment for radiological imaging are General Electric Healthcare Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions, a division of Siemens AG, Philips Medical Systems Ltd. and Toshiba Corporation, and the principal manufacturer of equipment for x-ray equipment is Shimadzu Corporation. These companies have substantially greater financial resources than does Given Imaging, and they have established reputations as well as worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to physicians. If Given Imaging is unable to convince physicians to 22 adopt the Given System over the current technologies marketed by its competitors, its results of operations will suffer. In addition to competition from products performing similar clinical functions to the Given System, there is also competition for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Another capital equipment item for gastroenterology that is priced similarly to Given Imaging’s system may compete with Given Imaging’s system for the same capital budget, which is typically limited, and therefore the potential purchaser may be required to choose between the two items of capital equipment. If Given Imaging is unable to market the Given System more effectively than other products that could be purchased using the same budget as the Given System, Given Imaging may be unable to maintain its current growth rate. If Given Imaging is unable to introduce other products for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, its growth may be negatively affected. Given Imaging’s objective is to expand the use of the Given System as a platform to be used with a variety of products and indications. Given Imaging intends to add to its current PillCam capsules by developing and introducing new capsules for visualizing other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, including the stomach and the colon. There can be no assurance of widespread market acceptance of the Given System as superior to existing technologies for detection of abnormalities in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or that Given Imaging will succeed in marketing and selling capsules for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, Given Imaging will be required to obtain FDA clearance in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before commercially distributing the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract. These regulatory processes can be lengthy and expensive, and Given Imaging cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and in order to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of the Given System in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, Given Imaging will be required to conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the diagnostic and cost-effectiveness of the Given System. If future clinical trials indicate that the Given System is not as clinically-effective or as cost-effective in these parts of the gastrointestinal tract as current methods, or that it causes unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, Given Imaging may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or obtain reimbursement coverage, and its growth would be adversely affected. Any disruption in the U.S. market, the primary market for Given Imaging's products, may result in a material reduction in Given Imaging’s revenues and negatively affect its results of operations. Since Given Imaging began selling the Given System in 2001, most of its revenues have been generated from sales in the United States. Sales in the United States accounted for $46.7 million, or 72%, of Given Imaging’s revenues in 2004; $63.9 million, or 74%, of its revenues in 2005; and $66.4 million, or 70%, of its revenues in 2006. Any disruption to Given Imaging’s market in the United States resulting from changes in management or the sales team of Given Imaging’s U.S. subsidiary (Given Imaging, Inc.), adverse changes in, among other things, reimbursement policies, regulatory requirements, competitors, macro-economic changes and other events, many of which are outside Given Imaging’s control, may result in a material reduction in its revenues and negatively affect its results of operations. 23 If Given Imaging is unable to successfully market and sell its products in Japan, one of its significant growth opportunities may be materially adversely affected. In April 2007, Given Imaging received regulatory clearance to market its capital equipment and PillCam SB capsule in Japan. This is Given Imaging’s first regulatory clearance in Japan. Given Imaging may not be able to generate significant revenues in Japan until reimbursement is available for the small bowel capsule endoscopy procedure, and there can be no assurance that Given Imaging will receive this reimbursement under favorable terms or at all. Furthermore, marketing its other products in Japan will require additional, product-specific regulatory clearances. Generally, the process for obtaining marketing clearance for medical devices in Japan could range from six months for products with only very minor modifications from previous cleared product versions to a few years in the case of a completely new device. There is no assurance that Given Imaging will receive regulatory clearances in Japan for any of its additional products. Finally, Suzuken Co. Ltd., or Suzuken, one of Japan’s largest medical devices and pharmaceutical distributors, has exclusive rights to distribute Given Imaging’s products in Japan. Consequently, Given Imaging’s future growth in the Japanese market depends in part on the success of Suzuken in doing so. If Given Imaging is unable to successfully market and sell its products in Japan for any of the foregoing reasons, one of Given Imaging’s significant growth opportunities will be materially adversely affected. Given Imaging’s reliance on sole source suppliers could harm its ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. Given Imaging depends on sole source suppliers for some of the components necessary for the production of the Given System. Specifically, Micron Technology, Inc., through its Micron Imaging Group and other wholly-owned subsidiaries, is currently the sole supplier of the imaging sensor and the packaging for the sensor, and Zarlink Semiconductors is currently the sole supplier of the transmitter that is integrated into the PillCam capsules. If the supply of these components is disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers are unable to supply the quantities of components that Given Imaging requires, it may not be able to find alternative sources for these key components. Although Given Imaging maintains a strategic inventory of key components, the inventory may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand for its products if supply is interrupted, and is subject to risk of loss due to catastrophic events such as fire at a storage facility. As a result, Given Imaging may be unable to meet demand for its products, which could harm its ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage its reputation. If Given Imaging is required to change the manufacturer of any of these key components of the Given System, there may be a significant delay in locating and/or verifying a suitable alternative manufacturer. Additionally, Given Imaging may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with FDA and other applicable quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the selection of a new manufacturer could delay Given Imaging’s ability to manufacture its product in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, in the event that the manufacturer of a key component of Given Imaging’s product ceases operations or otherwise ceases to do business with Given Imaging, Given Imaging may not have access to the information necessary to enable another supplier to manufacture the component. The occurrence of any of these events could harm Given Imaging’s ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. 24 Risks Affecting Our Holdings in NetVision The market for the supply of Internet access services and value added services in Israel is very competitive. The supply of Internet access services requires a special license from the Israeli Ministry of Communications, whose policy is to encourage competition, and therefore does not place any material barriers to entry into the market. Since the beginning of 2004, competition in the market has focused on broadband Internet services. NetVision and Barak continue to experience increased competition in gaining broadband communication market share, mainly from companies such as Internet Gold (Nasdaq:IGLD), Bezeq International, and 012 Golden Lines Ltd., or Golden Lines. As of December 31, 2006, NetVision estimates that it and Barak held approximately 24% and 13%, respectively, of the broadband Internet communications market in Israel. Competition from existing and new competitors may require NetVision and Barak to reduce their tariffs and increase its subscriber acquisition and retention costs as a result of which NetVision’s results of operations could be adversely impacted. Due to the intense competition, there has been a slow down in the increase of NetVision’s subscriber base. The market for the supply of international telephone services in Israel is very competitive. The market for international telephony services, which NetVision operates (following the merger with Barak) through Barak, is very competitive. The two major competitors are Bezek International and Golden Lines. Such competition may result in a decrease in prices, which will negatively affect NetVision's results of operations. NetVision and Barak rely on certain third-parties' infrastructures. NetVision and Barak rely on certain third-party service providers including local and long distance telecommunications companies, such as Bezeq – The Israel Telecommunications Corp. Ltd., or Bezeq, and Med Nautilus, for leased lines and connectivity to their infrastructures. Internet access by NetVision’s and Barak's customers is dependent on the telecommunications infrastructure owned and maintained by Bezeq and the local cable companies as well as telecommunications companies abroad. If NetVision’s and Barak's subscribers’ access to these telecommunications infrastructures is disrupted, it would significantly impact the services that NetVision and Barak provide to their subscribers and could result in a substantial reduction in Internet access volume and revenue. Furthermore an increase in the cost of access to these telecommunications infrastructures could also adversely impact NetVision’s results of operations. 