ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Governmental Actions. The Company’s agricultural business is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties related to the action or inaction of governmental bodies. The outcome of the global negotiations under the auspices of the World Trade Organization could have a material effect on the international flow of agricultural commodities which may result in a corresponding effect on the demand for agricultural equipment in many areas of the world. In the United States, the 2007 Farm Bill may significantly affect prices for farm commodities, particularly corn, cotton and rice, and this in turn could affect farmers’ demand for the Company’s products and services. The policies of the Brazilian government (including those related to exchange rates and commodity prices) could significantly change the dynamics of the agricultural economy in that country. 9 Changing Demand for Farm Outputs. Changing worldwide demand for food and the demand for different forms of bio-energy could have an effect on prices for farm commodities and consequently the demand for the Company’s agricultural equipment. Globalization. The continuing globalization of agricultural businesses may significantly change the dynamics of the Company’s competition, customer base and product offerings. The Company’s efforts to grow its businesses depend to a large extent on its success in developing additional geographic markets. Economic Condition and Outlook. General economic conditions can affect the demand for the Company’s equipment as well. Negative economic conditions or a negative outlook, for example, can decrease housing starts and other construction and dampen demand for equipment. Weakness in the overall farm economy can have a similar effect on agricultural equipment sales. Consumer Attitudes. The confidence the Company’s customers have in the general economic outlook can have a significant effect on their propensity to purchase equipment and, consequently, on the Company’s sales. The Company’s ability to match its new product offerings to its customers’ anticipated preferences for enhanced technologies and different types and sizes of equipment is important as well. Weather. Poor or unusual weather conditions, particularly in the spring, can significantly affect the purchasing decisions of the Company’s customers, particularly the customers of the agricultural and commercial and consumer segments. Sales in the important spring selling season can have a dramatic effect on the commercial and consumer segment’s financial results. Raw Material Costs. Changes in the availability and price of raw materials (such as steel, rubber and fuel) used in the production of the Company’s equipment could have an effect on its costs of production and, in turn, on the profitability of the business. Interest Rates and Credit Ratings. If interest rates rise, they could have a dampening effect on overall economic activity and could affect the demand for the Company’s equipment. In addition, credit market dislocations could have an impact on funding costs which are very important to the Company’s credit segment. Decisions and actions by credit rating agencies can affect the availability and cost of funding for the Company. Credit rating downgrades or negative changes to ratings outlooks can increase the Company’s cost of capital and hurt its competitive position. Guidance from rating agencies as to acceptable leverage can affect the Company’s returns as well. Environmental. Our operations are subject to and affected by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations by federal, state and local authorities in the United States and regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. Violations of such laws or regulations can lead to investigation and remediation costs, significant fines or penalties. In addition, increased requirements of governmental authorities, and claims for damages to property or injury to persons resulting from the environmental, health or safety impacts of our operations or past contamination, could prevent or restrict our operations, require significant expenditures to achieve compliance, involve the imposition of cleanup liens and/or give rise to civil or criminal liability. There can be no assurance that violations of such legislation and/or regulations, which results in enforcement actions or private claims will not have consequences which result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks identified above should be considered in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis beginning on page 15, and, specifically, the other risks described in the Safe Harbor Statement on pages 17 and 18. The Company’s results of operations may be affected by these identified risks and/or by risks not currently contemplated. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 