D. Risk Factors Specific Risks Affecting Elron Our financial results and our cash reserves are directly impacted by our ability to conclude "exit" transactions at significant values. Our ability to conclude "exit" transactions for companies in our group at significant values is impacted, inter alia, by economic conditions, market conditions in the high technology and/or medical device industries, the status of the venture capital industry and capital markets and various regulatory and contractual limitations. Furthermore, the possibility of concluding "exit" transactions at significant values is dependent on the circumstances and characteristics of the group company whose sale is being considered (the demand for its solutions, uniqueness, size of the problem it is trying to solve, etc.) as well as the ability of our management and the management of companies in our group to lead successful exit transaction processes. To the extent that we are not able to conclude these types of transactions, our results of operations and cash resources will be adversely affected. If our cash resources are insufficient to finance our operations, we may be unable to obtain alternative sources of financing and consequently may be unable to invest in existing and new companies. Our financial resources are dependent upon the proceeds of realization of our holdings in our group companies. In the absence of sufficient amounts of such financial resources, there is no assurance that we will be successful in raising additional capital for our activities and continued support of and investment in our existing and new companies. We may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, a company must register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as amended, or the 1940 Act, and comply with significant restrictions on operations and transactions with affiliates if it is engaged in the business of investing, owning, holding or trading securities and owns investment securities (as defined in the 1940 Act) exceeding 40% of the company's total assets, or if it holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing in, reinvesting or trading securities. The 1940 Act provides for various exemptions from the obligation to register thereunder, and in 1980 we received an order from the SEC, declaring that we are not an investment company under the 1940 Act. If certain of our investments were to adversely affect our status under the 1940 Act or if we were to cease to comply with the conditions of the order, we might need to dispose of or acquire other investments to avoid the requirement to register as an investment company on terms that may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we were deemed to be an investment company and therefore required to register as such under the 1940 Act, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do, as a result of which our market value could be severely harmed. 9 We believe that we were characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes in 2014 and 2015, and, as a result, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, after applying certain look-through rules (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of our assets (averaged quarterly over our taxable year) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, then we would be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. U.S. shareholders of a foreign corporation that is a PFIC may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of ordinary shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than capital gain rates. Similar rules apply to distributions that are classified as "excess distributions". In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts received as excess distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. If a foreign corporation is a PFIC, the price and marketability of such corporation’s shares could also n be adversely affected We believe that we were a PFIC in 2015. As a result, we also believe that we were a PFIC in 2014. While we believe that we did not satisfy the income and asset tests in 2014, we would not have been treated as a PFIC in 2014 if we qualified for a change in business exception. In order to qualify for the change of business exception to PFIC status in 2014, we generally had to satisfy the following requirements: (1) we were never classified as a PFIC prior to 2014, (2) substantially all of our passive income for 2014 was attributable to proceeds from the disposition of one or more active trades or businesses and (3) we are not classified as a PFIC in 2015 and 2016. We believe that it was likely that we satisfied requirements (1) and (2) above with respect to 2014. However, as we believe that we were a PFIC in 2015, we cannot satisfy requirement (3). Thus, if we were a PFIC in 2015, we were also a PFIC in 2014. Since we believe we were a PFIC in 2015 and therefore also in 2014, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than capital gain rates. Similar rules apply to distributions that are classified as "excess distributions". In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts received as excess distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. The determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our ordinary share. U.S. holders that own our ordinary shares may be able to avoid (or minimize) the adverse tax consequences described above if they can, and do, elect to apply one of two alternative taxing regimes – the “qualified electing fund” (“QEF”) and “mark-to-market” regimes, which are described below in Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company. In general, a U.S. holder may make a QEF election so long as we provide U.S. holders with a PFIC Annual Information Statement (described below in Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company), which contains information as to (or enables a U.S. holder to compute), inter alia, the U.S. holder’s pro rata share of our ordinary earnings and net capital gain under U.S. tax principles. We prepare our financial statements and data in accordance with IFRS and do not separately compute income and loss in accordance with U.S. federal income tax principles and accordingly, we do not intend to provide U.S. holders with a PFIC Annual Information Statement. As a result, U.S. holders may not be able to make a QEF election. In general, a U.S. holder may make a mark-to-market election if our ordinary shares are considered “marketable stock.” A class of stock is “marketable stock” if it is “regularly traded” on a “qualified exchange or other market” (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.1296-2(c)). Our ordinary shares are currently traded on the OTC Pink in the United States and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in Israel. We do not believe that the OTC Pink would be considered a “qualified exchange or other market” for this purpose. While it is not entirely clear, we believe that the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange should be considered such a “qualified exchange or other market.” 10 Even if U.S. holders are able to make a QEF election or mark-to-market election, U.S. holders that owned our ordinary shares in 2014 may have additional negative consequences from making either a QEF election or mark-to-market election with respect to 2015. Unless a QEF election or mark-to-market election is made with respect to our ordinary shares, the determination that we are a PFIC in a taxable year generally will cause such PFIC status to apply with respect to a U.S. holder who held our shares in such year to all future taxable years in which such holder continues to own our shares, notwithstanding that we may not be a PFIC in such other taxable years. U.S. holders of our shares are urged to review "Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company" and consult with their tax advisors regarding the potential application and effects of the PFIC rules to their acquisition, ownership and disposition of our ordinary shares. It may be difficult to serve process or to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and our officers. Since all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, it may be difficult to effect service of process on us, our directors or officers within the United States. Furthermore, because most of our assets are located outside the United States, it may not be possible to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or the aforementioned individuals in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. Our principal shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd. (TASE:DISI), or DIC, has the ability to direct our business and affairs. As of December 31, 2015, DIC beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 50.32% of our ordinary shares and is our controlling shareholder. As of the date of publication of this Annual Report, DIC has the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and accordingly, DIC has the ability to direct our business and affairs subject to the provisions of the Promotion of Competition and Reduction of Centralization Law, 5774-2013 ("Concentration Law") requiring that a majority of the board of directors be independent. Furthermore, we entered into a Services Agreement with DIC pursuant to which we receive substantially all of our managerial and administrative services through a staff employed by DIC. Also, a vice president of DIC serves as our Chief Executive Officer. For more information see "Item 7 – Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders". In addition, DIC's control over us may impose various regulatory restrictions on our activities. See risk factors below regarding anti-trust regulations, Bank of Israel regulations on borrowing from Israeli banks, and regulatory and contractual restrictions. Due to the Israeli Law for Increasing Competitiveness and Reducing Market Concentration, DIC will be permitted to continue to control us until December 2019. For more information see “Risks Affecting Us and the Companies in Our Group". 11 We voluntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market and may in the future seek to terminate our Exchange Act registration. In view of the significant costs associated with maintaining a U.S. listing, our relatively limited number of U.S. holders of record and the fact that a substantial majority of the trading of our shares then occurred on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE, we voluntarily delisted our shares from the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, on January 6, 2010. As a result of our delisting, we are required to comply with reporting requirements in accordance with both Israeli and applicable U.S. securities laws. To the extent that we comply with one of the deregistration conditions required under the applicable U.S. securities laws, it will be possible for us to effect a deregistration. The foregoing actions may have an adverse impact on the market price for our ordinary shares. If we are successful in terminating our Exchange Act registration, we will no longer be obligated to file reports with or furnish reports to the SEC, including annual reports on Form 20-F and reports on Form 6-K. After deregistration under the Exchange Act, we will continue to be governed by disclosure requirements under applicable Israeli law and regulations. Since the time we voluntarily delisted and until today, the conditions for deregistering have not been met. For more information see "Item 4.A – History and Development of the Company". Risks Affecting Us and the Companies in Our Group We compete with other entities for acquisition and investment opportunities. As part of our overall strategy, we pursue opportunities for acquisitions of, and investments in, Israeli companies and Israel-related technology companies. The success of a number of Israeli companies has prompted potential investors to seek investment opportunities in Israel, which has allowed many Israeli high-technology companies to gain direct access to Israeli and foreign public securities markets and financial and strategic acquisition potentials. We compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other established and well-capitalized entities such as strategic investors (large technology companies which invest in their field of activity or tangential fields), venture capital funds, private equity funds and other investors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. Our failure to effect further acquisitions or investments in the future may hinder our ability to grow and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations Global and local economic conditions may adversely affect our and our group companies' results and financial condition and could lead to impairment charges. Developments in the global markets and particularly in the Euro zone and in the United States, which include securities' prices and currencies' exchange rate fluctuations, as well as domestic developments, in the past have affected and in the future may affect our and our group companies' results of operations, liquidity, value of equity, value and exit potential of assets, business (including the demand for our group companies' products), financial covenants, ability to distribute dividends, ability to raise financing as required for day-to-day, long-term and R&D operations, allocation of resources, and availability and terms of financing from financial institutions and banks. 12 Our financial results and financial condition are principally impacted by the results of operation of, and the value of our holdings in, our group companies. We are exposed to the volatility of the value of our holdings in these companies. If our group companies experience difficulties in the future, or if there are adverse changes in their fair value, we may need to write-down or write-off the carrying value of our holdings and our business and financial results and/or the value of our assets will be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the value of our holdings in our group companies may have an adverse effect on our market value. We regard the changes described herein as being in the ordinary course of our business. Our financial results significantly depend on the results of operations of our group companies, which continue to invest heavily in their development and of which most have generated losses. Our results of operations are directly impacted by the results of operations of our group companies which are consolidated in our financial statements or are accounted for on an equity or fair value basis. To the extent any of these companies have poor financial results or encounter difficulties in their operations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Many of these companies are in the development stage and have not yet generated significant revenues, if at all, have incurred losses, and have invested heavily in research and development and marketing of their products. We anticipate that the majority of these companies will continue to record losses in the future. We may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in companies in our group. We are subject to regulatory limitations, including lock up periods according to applicable securities laws, anti-trust laws, as well as contractual limitations, all of which may limit the possibilities for disposing of our holdings in our group companies. Rights of first refusal, tag-along, bring along, veto rights and similar rights which may restrict transfer of shares may limit our ability to dispose of our shares in our privately held group companies. Furthermore, due to the limitations of U.S. and Israeli securities laws, material non-public information in relation to publicly traded companies to which we may become exposed because of service of our members of personnel on the boards of directors of companies in our group, and contractual and legal limits on the tradability of the shares we own or control, may create difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in these companies in our group at a time and in a manner we deem suitable. Our ability to invest in companies or conclude exit transactions may be adversely affected and/or prevented by anti-trust regulations both in Israel and abroad. The Israeli and international anti-trust laws may adversely affect and even prevent our or our group companies' ability to invest in companies or to effect exit transactions. Certain of these transactions may be subject to the approval of the General Director of the Israeli Anti-Trust Authority, or the General Director, which approval may be denied or given with certain conditions. Due to the fact that IDB Development Corporation (TASE: IDBD), or IDBD, holds, indirectly through DIC, more than 50% of our shares, any enquiry as to whether an investment transaction needs to be reported to or to receive the consent of the General Director is extensive in its scope, taking into account other companies within the IDBD group of companies. In addition, since our group companies may become involved in or be the subject of cross border transactions, foreign anti-trust approvals in countries in which the parties to the transaction operate, such as the United States and Europe, may also be required, which may in turn delay or prevent such transactions from taking place. 13 The Concentration Law may adversely affect our business. In December 2013, the Concentration Law was published and some of the provisions apply to us, namely in the following respects: a. According to the Concentration Law's provisions, "reporting corporations" (generally speaking, corporations whose securities are held by the public) structured as pyramids are restricted to two tiers of reporting corporations (while a company lacking a controlling shareholder will not count as a first-tier company). This means that as of the date of publication of this Annual Report, we are considered a third-tier company and a significant "real entity" as such term is defined under the Concentration Law. So long as we are considered a third-tier company according to the Concentration Law, we are entitled to continue controlling reporting companies that are under our control as of the Concentration Law's publication, for up to four years after the publication of the Concentration Law. As of the date of publication of this Annual Report, there are no reporting companies under our control. Our controlling shareholder, DIC, is considered as of the publication of this Annual Report a second-tier company that is entitled to continue controlling us for up to six years after the Law's publication. b. As long as we are considered at least a third-tier company according to the Concentration Law, our board of directors will be required to consist of a majority of independent directors, and the number of our external directors will be required to constitute at least half of our board members, less one (rounded up) and will include no less than two external directors. As of the date of publication of this Annual Report, our board of directors meets these requirements. The above may materially adversely impact us, taking into account, among others, the restrictions on our holding structure, our ability to acquire control in public companies traded in Israel, the value of such holdings, and our ability to take public in Israel companies which we control. In addition, this law may impact on our control structure. We and our group companies are subject to regulatory requirements and restrictions in Israel and various other countries. Our and our group companies' operations are subject to regulation in Israel and additional countries in which we and our group companies operate or wish to operate. These regulatory requirements may impact, inter alia, on our reporting obligations and as a result, may affect our business and our ability to invest in new companies. In addition, the regulatory requirements and restrictions in Israel to which we and our group companies are subject may be different and even in conflict with the regulatory requirements and restrictions applicable to us and our group companies in other countries. If this occurs, it will adversely affect our business. We have indemnification obligations which survive exit transactions and may not receive the entire proceeds due to us from exit transactions of our group companies. During the execution of exit transactions, we, as shareholders of our group companies, and/or our group companies are often called upon to make representations and warranties to the acquirer about the relevant group company and to, under certain circumstances, indemnify the acquirer for damages should such representations or warranties prove to be inaccurate. In addition, a portion of the sale proceeds is often held in escrow as security for the indemnification obligations, which may expose us to the risk of ultimately not receiving all or part of such portion of the proceeds should the representations and warranties prove to be inaccurate. Also, certain proceeds may be contingent upon future performance of such companies following the exit transaction and over which we have no control and accordingly, there is no assurance that such proceeds will be ultimately paid to us in full or at all. Should we not receive the entire proceeds due to us from exit transactions of our group companies in the circumstances described above, it may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Regarding representations and deposit of moneys in escrow in connection with the sale transactions of Medingo Ltd. ("Medingo"), Wavion, Sync-Rx, Kyma and Jordan Valley see "Item 4.A – History and Development of the Company" below. In addition, representations were given by our group companies in the past and by us in the framework of the sale of other companies previously sold by us. 14 The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly over time. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: · any slowdown of the global economic condition; · low trading volume of our ordinary shares, which decreased following our delisting from Nasdaq and may further decrease; · announcements by our group companies (or by us regarding our group companies), their competitors or other third parties of technological innovations, new products, regulatory developments, new clinical data regarding current or future products or earnings or losses; · delays or failures in the development of products of our group companies; · periodic variations in results of operations of our group companies; · factors that generally affect the market for stocks of medical device and other companies; · political, economic or other developments affecting Israel and its region; and · quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our financial results. Many of our group companies may face difficulties in obtaining future financing on favorable terms or at all. Many of our group companies are in the development stage and have extensive research and development and marketing costs and limited revenues, if any. In order to succeed, these companies may require additional capital to fund these costs. Their ability to obtain financing is impacted by general economic conditions, the condition of the capital markets and the condition of the venture capital industry. If these companies have difficulties obtaining financing from their current shareholders or from external financing sources, their continued operations may be at risk and such difficulties may materially adversely affect their results of operations and financial performance. This would also adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. Bank of Israel regulations limit our and our group companies' ability to borrow from Israeli banks. Bank of Israel regulations limit the ability of Israeli banks to extend credit in excess of certain levels to companies and individuals considered to be in an associate group, which effectively limit the amount available to companies within such group for borrowing from such banks. We and our group companies are part of the IDBD group of affiliated companies, which is one of the largest groups of affiliated companies in Israel. The IDBD group includes many Israeli companies that may require, or that hold ownership interests in companies that may require, extensive credit facilities from Israeli banks for the operation of their businesses. These regulations may result in difficulties for us and our group companies in obtaining or increasing bank financing, if required, from Israeli banks, and may affect our and their ability to make investments for which bank credit is required or to invest in companies that received large credit facilities from certain Israeli banks as well as their ability to conduct certain business activities in cooperation with parties who received such credit facilities. 15 Our results, and the value of our investments, are affected by volatility in the securities markets. Securities markets in general are volatile, even more so with negative economic developments, and are particularly volatile for publicly traded high-technology companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies' securities is not necessarily related to their operating performance, such volatility may result in these companies experiencing difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses as well as difficulties in executing exit transactions in these companies. These difficulties and the volatility of the securities markets in general, and specifically during economic slowdowns, have affected and may continue to affect our and our group companies' ability to realize our investments or to raise financing, which in turn may result in us having to record impairment charges. There is no assurance that our subsidiary, RDC, will be able to continue to develop technologies and/or new companies. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, DEP, holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares and voting rights of RDC, which was established by DEP together with the predecessor of Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd., or Rafael, pursuant to an agreement entered into in 1993. RDC has first rights to commercialize certain technologies of Rafael for the development of products for use in non-military markets. For more information, see "Item 10C – Additional Information – Material Contracts." Our ability to continue to grow and develop and to build new companies within RDC could be harmed, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, if we are unable to realize the full potential value of RDC's agreement with Rafael as a result of any of the following: · Rafael does not cooperate with RDC in the realization of RDC's rights under the agreement; · Rafael or RDC does not identify existing technology, or Rafael does not develop new technology, that is identified suitable for being commercialized in non-military markets; · RDC does not reach agreement with Rafael on the terms of the use of technology for commercial purposes; · RDC is unable to obtain continued financing from its shareholders or otherwise, if and when required. 16 Most of our group companies are dependent upon proprietary technology, which may be infringed by, or may infringe upon, the proprietary technology of others. Most of our group companies depend significantly on their proprietary technology for their success. Like many other technology companies, most of these companies rely on a combination of protection laws within the field of patents, copyrights and trademarks together with non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality clauses in their agreements, including employment agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect proprietary rights in their products. However, these legal means may not adequately protect our group companies' rights or permit them to acquire or maintain any competitive advantage. The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in patents issued in a form that will be advantageous to our group companies, or at all, and patents and applications for patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. The life time of a patent is usually fixed for 20 years from the date of the filing of the application for registration of the patent. During the protection period, the patent holder is required, in certain countries, to pay periodic fees to maintain the rights in the patent. In some countries, there are special arrangements with respect to patents, in the framework of which the patent holder may, subject to the conditions set forth in the relevant legislation, apply for an extension of the patent period for an additional period of time over and above the original patent period. An extension application usually entails payment of fees and additional costs. There is no certainty that in the countries that allow an extension, it will indeed be granted at the end of the proceedings defined in the laws of such countries. In addition, there is no certainty that applications for the registration of a patent that shall have been filed by our group companies shall result in the registration of a patent and/or that there will be no attempts by third parties to challenge those patents registered by the companies, and even sue for the revocation thereof. In addition, the mere fact of a patent being registered does not prevent competitors of our group companies from manufacturing products which are identical to products of our group companies, but rather entitles patent holders to sue such infringing competitors for infringement of their registered patents. Our group companies may not be able to enforce their proprietary rights under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Our group companies may not be able to successfully protect their technology because of, among other reasons: · Some foreign countries may not protect their proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States; · Competitors of our group companies may be issued patents that will prevent our group companies from using technologies, designs or methods that our group companies would like to integrate into their products; · Enforcing their rights may be time consuming and costly, thereby diverting management’s attention and company resources; · Measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements afford us and our group companies only limited protection; · Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our group companies' products and develop similar products or to obtain and use information that they regard as proprietary; and 17 · Competitors may independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our group companies' products or that circumvent their intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert infringement claims against our group companies, which could have a material adverse impact on the group companies. In addition, the cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims are valid. If our group companies do not adequately protect their intellectual property, their competitors or other parties could make similar products and compete more efficiently with our group companies. If our group companies do not adequately protect their intellectual property as described above, it could materially adversely affect their business, their financial condition and their results of operations and as a result, this could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The technological fields within which our group companies operate involve a high level of risk and uncertainty. Penetration into the technological fields within which our group companies operate involves a high level of risk and uncertainty and requires the investment of considerable sums of money and time. Our group companies may fail in either the development of their products including additional products or new applications based on developed platforms, expansion of the pipeline of products, manufacturing of the products, or obtaining the necessary approvals for commercializing the products and selling their products in significant quantities directly or through strategic partnerships or license agreements and maintaining a competitive advantage over time. The research and development of each product in its respective technological field within which our group companies operate, particularly companies in the medical device field, takes many years and requires the employment of high quality development personnel. Every product development project entails many scientific and engineering complexities and extensive technological know-how is required for the development of the product. The absence of technological and business know-how and suitable technological infrastructure may lead to a delay or failure in the product development. In addition, there is also the risk that after completion of the development and approval processes, a competitor may have developed superior technology, which gives it a competitive advantage. Furthermore it is difficult to transition from development stage to marketing and manufacturing stage operations, including establishing commercial manufacturing capabilities and establishing sales and marketing infrastructure. The ability to penetrate markets in circumstances where there is no competing product is also dependent on the ability of our group companies to educate their potential customers of the possibilities for the use of the product and its advantages. Delays, difficulties or failures associated with developing, manufacturing, or marketing products, or associated with new product introductions or product enhancements, could materially adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of these companies and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operation. Many of our group companies experience intense competition. Many of our group companies experience competition from companies with significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, who have easier market access, better operational infrastructure, longer operating histories, larger installed client bases, greater name recognition, more established relationships and alliances in their industries and offer a broader range of products and services. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in clients' requirements, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive products and services pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products and services. If our group companies are unable to successfully compete, their businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, and as a result could also negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 18 Israeli government programs in which certain of our group companies participate may be terminated or reduced in the future and may be restrictive in their terms. Certain of our group companies participate in programs of the Office of the Israeli Chief Scientist, or, the OCS, and the Israel Investment Center, from which they receive grants of between 20% and 50% of the research and development expenses and other benefits for the financing of a portion of their research and development expenditures in Israel. In consideration for receiving a grant from the OCS, the company receiving the grant, or, the Recipient Company, is obligated to pay the OCS royalties from the revenues generated from the sale of products (and related services) or services developed (in all or in part) according to, or as a result of, a research and development program funded by the OCS (at rates which are determined under the Israeli Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 5744-1984 and related regulations, or the R&D Law), up to the aggregate amount of the total grants received by the OCS, plus annual interest (as determined in the R&D Law). Following the full payment of such royalties and interest, there is generally no further liability for royalty payment. Nonetheless, the restrictions under the R&D Law (as generally described below) will continue to apply even after the Recipient Company has repaid the full amount of royalty payable pursuant to the grants. Any intellectual property developed using the OCS grants and any right derived therefrom must be fully and originally owned by the Recipient Company unless transfer thereof is approved in accordance with provisions of the R&D Law. The terms of such OCS programs may restrict the ability of our group companies which received funds from the OCS to manufacture products and/or transfer know-how or technologies outside of Israel (as further detailed below). The benefits available under these programs depend on our group companies meeting specified conditions. There is no assurance as to availability or the level of the OCS grants in the future. The Recipient Company is subject to certain obligations under the R&D Law. The pertinent obligations are as follows: · Local Manufacturing Obligation: Products developed as a result of OCS funded R&D must, as a general matter, be manufactured in Israel. The transfer of manufacturing capacity outside of Israel, in whole or in part, is subject to the OCS's prior written approval (except for the transfer of less than 10% of the manufacturing capacity in the aggregate which requires merely a notice) and the payment of royalties at an increased rate (usually 1% in addition to the standard rate and increased royalties CAP (between 120% and 300% of the amount of the grant (depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel). A company also has the option of declaring in its OCS grant application an intention to exercise a portion of the manufacturing capacity abroad, thus avoiding the need to obtain additional approval and pay the increased royalties CAP. 19 · Know-How transfer limitation: Approval of the transfer of OCS funded Know-How to another Israeli company may be granted only if the recipient abides by all the provisions of the R&D Law and related regulations, including the restrictions on the transfer of know-how and manufacturing capacity outside of Israel. In addition, the R&D Law restricts the ability to transfer know-how funded by the OCS outside of Israel. Transfer of OCS funded know-how outside of Israel requires prior OCS approval and is subject to certain payment to the OCS calculated according to formulae provided under the R&D Law. The OCS approval to transfer know-how created, in whole or in part, in connection with an OCS-funded project to a third party outside Israel where the transferring company remains an operating Israeli entity is subject to payment of a redemption fee to the OCS calculated according to a formula provided under the R&D Law that is based, in general, on the ratio between the aggregate OCS grants to the company’s aggregate investments in the project that was funded by these OCS grants, multiplied by the transaction consideration considering amortization mechanism and less royalties already paid to the OCS. The transfer of such know-how to a party outside Israel where the transferring company ceases to exist as an Israeli entity is subject to a redemption fee formula that is based, in general, on the ratio between aggregate OCS grants received by the company and the company’s aggregate R&D expenses, multiplied by the transaction consideration. The R&D Law establishes a maximum payment of the redemption fee paid to the OCS under the above mentioned formulas and differentiates between two situations: (i) in the event that the company sells its OCS funded know-how, in whole or in part, or sells it as part of an M&A transaction, and subsequently significantly reduces its R&D activity in Israel, the maximum redemption fee under the above mentioned formulas shall be no more than 6 times the amount received (plus annual interest) for the applicable know-how being transferred, or the entire amount received from the OCS as applicable; (ii) in the event that following the transactions described above (i.e. asset sale of OCS funded know-how or transfer as part of an M&A transaction) the company continues to conduct its R&D activity in Israel (for at least three years following such transfer and keeps on staff at least 75% of the R&D employees it retained for the six months before the know-how was transferred), then the company is eligible for a reduced cap of the redemption fee of no more than 3 times the amounts received (plus annual interest) for the applicable know-how being transferred, or the entire amount received from the OCS, as applicable. It should be noted that there is no assurance that our group companies will receive the required approvals from the OCS for any proposed transfer outside of Israel of technology and/or know-how developed with OCS funding, if such will be required. In the event that the applicable company from our group companies which received grants from the OCS, will request to manufacture OCS funded products outside Israel or to transfer their OCS funded know-how or a part thereof to a non-Israeli entity, including within the framework of the sale of that company or its assets, then the approval of the OCS will be required and this will involve additional payments to the State of Israel. 20 The restrictions, among others, may limit the ability of our group companies that receive grants to conclude transactions with international companies, including "exit" transactions. In addition, if our group companies fail to comply with the conditions imposed by the OCS, they may be required to refund the grants received immediately together with interest and penalties, and if they violate the provisions of the R&D Law, they may also be subject to criminal charges. In addition, the Government of Israel may from time to time audit sales of products which it claims incorporate technology funded through OCS programs and this may lead to additional royalties being payable on additional products. This may materially adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our group companies and as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the OCS is in the process of exploring the possibility of promulgating regulations, including the consideration due to the State of Israel for the granting of licenses to use know-how developed as a result of research financed by the OCS. Such regulations may have an effect on us and our group companies receiving OCS grants, in respect of the amount of their payments to the OCS for the grant of sub-licenses to third parties. As of the date of publication of this Annual Report, we are unable to assess the effect, if any, of the promulgation of such regulations on our group companies. On July 29, 2015, the R&D Law was amended ("Amendment number 7"). Pursuant to Amendment number 7, the National Authority for Technological Innovation ("NATI"), a statutory corporation, will be established and will replace the OCS. Pursuant to Amendment number 7, the current restrictions under the R&D Law will be replaced by new arrangements in connection with ownership obligations of know-how (including with respect to restrictions on transfer of know-how and manufacturing activities outside of Isreal) as well as royalties obligations associated with approved programs, which will be promulgated by NATI. The commencement date for Amendment number 7 was January 1, 2016. However, in the interim, until new arrangements are adopted by NATI, the R&D law as it existed prior to the amendment continues to be in effect. NATI should be constituted no later than July 28, 2018, and new arrangements should be adopted no later than one year thereafter. As of the date of filing of this Annual Report, we are unable to assess the effect, if any, of the promulgation of such arrangements on us and our group companies. We and our group companies may have difficulty retaining key employees. Our success and the success of our group companies depends, in large part, on a limited number of key personnel in the management, scientific, technological and technical fields. In addition, future success will depend, in part, on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel and with respect to us, personnel who can also serve effectively as directors of our group companies. There can be no assurance that our group companies will be able either to retain present personnel or to acquire additional qualified personnel as and when needed. The loss of the services of key personnel of our group companies and the failure to attract highly qualified personnel may materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operation and as a result, our financial condition and results of operation may be materially adversely affected. We also depend, inter alia, on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain or attract optimally qualified personnel to provide such services to us, which could have a negative impact on our financial conditions and results of operation. 21 Certain of our group companies depend on international operations. The products of most of our group companies are designated for sale to customers outside of Israel. As a result, negative changes in international, political, economic or geographic events could result in significant shortfalls in orders or revenues. These shortfalls could cause the business, financial condition and results of operations of these companies to be harmed and as a result negatively impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of the risks of doing business internationally include: · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · international geographical events; · fluctuation of the New Israeli Shekel / U.S. Dollar representative rate of exchange; · inability of our group companies and their subcontractors to obtain export licenses; · imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; · burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; · political and economic instability; · changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and · acts of terror. Some of these factors, such as the ability to obtain export licenses and changes in diplomatic relations, may be affected by Israel's overall political situation. See "Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies." In addition, the economic and political stability in the countries where our group companies' major customers and suppliers are located may also impact our group companies’ business. Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies. We and most of our group companies conduct principal operations in Israel, and therefore are directly affected by the political, economic, and military conditions affecting Israel and the Middle East. In particular, we could be adversely affected by: · any major hostilities involving Israel; · increasing tension with Iran; · a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; · the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; · a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel; · a significant downgrading of Israel's international credit rating; · labor disputes and strike actions; and · political instability. 22 Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel, including among others, periodic disruption of day-to-day civilian activity in different parts of Israel. Armed conflicts in recent years with both Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, and Hamas, a Palestinian Islamic Resistance Movement, have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. Any further escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region could have a negative effect on our and our group companies' business and financial condition, harm our and our group companies’ results of operations and adversely affect our share price. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the region's problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel's economic development. Our and our group companies' operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under a specified age, as a general rule, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. Our operations and those of our group companies could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our or our group companies' personnel. While we and our group companies have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. The results of operations of our group companies may be harmed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that our group companies are based in Israel and have international operations, or operate only in Israel but conduct their business in different currencies, their revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, are not necessarily in the same currency, and therefore they are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. In particular, our functional currency, as well as that of most of our group companies, is the U.S. dollar. However salaries and related expenses of our expenses as well as expenses related to the DIC Service Agreement (See "Item 7 – Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders") and other operating expenses are denominated in NIS. If the NIS strengthens against the U.S. dollar, it will harm our and our group companies' results of operations and cash resources. We hold a significant portion of our cash balances in dollars; however, in the future, changes may take place from time to time in the amounts of these balances, in how we maintain our cash, and the portion of cash we hold in each currency, based on business developments and future decisions. Product liability claims could adversely affect the business results of our group companies, especially those operating in the medical device industry. Product liability is an inherent risk for our group companies operating in the medical device industry. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to a group company and a substantial diversion of management attention. A product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm a group company's reputation and result in a decline in revenues. Substantial damages awards have been made in some jurisdictions against medical device companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. There can be no assurance that a future product liability claim or series of claims brought against our group companies would not have a material adverse effect on their financial condition or the results of operations, or that coverage limits of product liability insurance would be adequate. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Product regulation may adversely affect the ability of our medical device group companies to bring new products to market or to continue to supply existing products to the market. Our medical device group companies are subject to strict government controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of products, including with regard to financial arrangements and kickbacks to financial institutions and healthcare officials and with regard to obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for their products from regulatory agencies before products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. Each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements and delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patents and products of competitors and related patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are only a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of product registration. Compliance with regulatory requirements involves significant time and money resources. In addition, noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can require the investment of more time and resources in the development of products, stop product development and result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar regulatory actions which could limit product sales, delay or halt product shipments and/or delay new product clearances or approvals, any of which may thereby materially adversely affect such group companies' businesses. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because the medical device industry is litigious, our medical device group companies are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause our medical device group companies to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit them from selling their products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Whether or not a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management's attention from the concerned company’s core business as well as result in the payment of damages or even prevent the concerned company from selling its products and accordingly could materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operation and as a result this could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If our medical device group companies are unable to obtain reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using their products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing their products, demand for their products may be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for products produced by our medical device group companies, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our medical device group companies' products or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers as compared with alternative procedures, our medical device group companies may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support their businesses. In addition, our medical device group companies could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement amounts or availability for procedures in which their products are used. Accordingly, this could materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operations and as a result could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 24 The development of products by our group companies in the medical device field is dependent upon the success of clinical trials. The continued development of many of the products being developed by our group companies engaged in the medical device field is dependent upon the performance of clinical trials and subject to, and contingent upon, the success of such trials at each one of the regulatory stages. The performance of clinical trials is dependent upon a variety of factors, including the ability to recruit appropriate candidates for such trials. A slower than expected pace of recruiting and/or a delay in recruiting candidates for the trials may derive from various factors, such as low incidence of patients meeting the trial’s criteria, competition between companies over the participation of trial candidates, a change in candidates’ readiness to volunteer for the trial and lack of funds. Furthermore, the need for the consent of various clinical research bodies for the performance of the trials, receipt of the regulatory approvals for performance of the trials, and the structure of the trials (trial protocol, manner of analysis of results etc.), regulatory changes, as well as the possibility of unexpected side effects of the group companies’ products may all constitute obstacles in the path to successful completion of the clinical trials, and may delay or even stop the continued performance of the clinical trials and lead to postponement of receipt of the approvals and permits as aforesaid. Therefore, it is impossible to know when clinical trials will be completed, if at all. Accordingly this could materially adversely affect our group companies' financial condition and results of operation and as a result could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our medical device companies experience significant uncertainty at the research and development stage. Most of our medical device companies are in the research and development stage. In light of the uncertainty that they will succeed in developing their various products, in demonstrating their products efficiency, safety, and cost-benefit, and/or in penetrating relevant markets, in the event of the failure in the technological development of products of our group companies and/or the failure to obtain the required approvals from the authorized regulatory authorities in order to market their products and/or successfully penetrate into the relevant market, our investment in these companies may ultimately be lost and as a result could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 25 Below is a table grading the influence of the above described risk factors on the Company: Risk Factor Influence on the Company Major Influence Medium Influence Minor Influence Specific Risks Affecting Us Our financial results and our cash reserves are directly impacted by our ability to conclude "exit" transactions at significant values ü If our cash resources are insufficient to finance our operations, we may be unable to obtain alternative sources of financing and consequently may be unable to invest in existing and new companies. ü We may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. ü If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. ü It may be difficult to serve process or to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and our officers. ü Our principal shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd. or DIC, has the ability to direct our business and affairs. ü We voluntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market and may in the future seek to terminate our Exchange Act registration. ü Risks Affecting Us and the Companies in Our Group We compete with other entities for acquisition and investment opportunities. ü Global and local economic conditions has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our and our group companies' results and financial condition and could lead to impairment charges ü Our financial results and financial condition are principally impacted by the results of operation of, and the value of our holdings in, our group companies. ü Our financial results significantly depend on the results of operations of our group companies, which continue to invest heavily in their development and have generated losses. ü We may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in companies in our group. ü Our ability to invest in companies or conclude exit transactions may be adversely affected and/or prevented by anti-trust regulations both in Israel and abroad. ü The Israeli Promotion of Competition and the Reducing of Concentration Law may adversely affect our business ü We and our group companies are subject to regulatory requirements and restrictions in Israel and various other countries ü 26 Risk Factor Influence on the Company Major Influence Medium Influence Minor Influence We have indemnification obligations which survive exit transactions and may not receive the entire proceeds due to us from exit transactions of our group companies. ü The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. ü Many of our group companies may face difficulties in obtaining future financing on favorable terms or at all. ü Bank of Israel regulations limit our and our group companies' ability to borrow from Israeli banks. ü Our results, and the value of our investments, are affected by volatility in the securities markets. ü There is no assurance that our subsidiary, RDC, will be able to continue to develop technologies and/or new companies. ü Most of our group companies are dependent upon proprietary technology, which may be infringed by, or may infringe upon, the proprietary technology of others. ü The technological fields within which our group companies operate involve a high level of risk and uncertainty. ü Many of our group companies experience intense competition. ü Israeli government programs in which certain of our group companies participate may be terminated or reduced in the future and may be restrictive in their terms. ü We and our group companies may have difficulty retaining key employees. ü Certain of our group companies depend on international operations. ü Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies. ü Our and our group companies' operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. ü The results of operations of our group companies may be harmed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. ü Product liability claims could adversely affect the business results of our group companies, especially those operating in the medical device industry. ü Product regulation may adversely affect the ability of our medical device group companies to bring new products to market or to continue to supply existing products to the market. ü 27 Risk Factor Influence on the Company Major Influence Medium Influence Minor Influence Because the medical device industry is litigious, our medical device group companies are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause our medical device group companies to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit them from selling their products. ü If our medical device group companies are unable to obtain reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using their products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing their products, demand for their products may be adversely affected. ü The development of products by our group companies in the medical device field is dependent upon the success of clinical trials. ü Our medical device companies experience significant uncertainty during the research and development stage ü 