Risk Factors Risks Affecting us and the Companies in our Group Our financial results and financial condition are principally impacted by the results of, and the value of our holdings in, our group companies. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our share in the results of operations of our group companies and gain upon the sale of shares in our group companies accounted for substantially all of our income. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, our holdings in group companies represented approximately 50% of our total assets. If our group companies experience difficulties in the future, or if there are adverse changes in their market price or fair value, our financial results and/or the value of our assets will be adversely affected, and we may need to write-down or write-off the carrying value of our holding or record the share in our group company’s loss. In particular, as of December 31, 2005, the carrying value of our holdings in Given Imaging Ltd., or Given Imaging (Nasdaq:GIVN), represented approximately 19% of our total assets, the carrying value of our holdings in Partner 5 Communications Ltd., or Partner (Nasdaq: PTNR), represented approximately 7% of our total assets and the carrying value of our holdings in Oncura, Inc., or Oncura, through our subsidiary Galil Medical Ltd., or Galil Medical, represented approximately 6% of our total assets. Any adverse change in the results of operations or financial condition of Given Imaging, Oncura or other of our group companies whose results we consolidate or account for on an equity basis, or any substantial adverse change in the market value of shares in Given Imaging or Partner, may have a substantial negative impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our performance significantly depends on the results of operations of our group companies. Our results of operations are directly impacted by the results of operations of our group companies accounted for under the equity or consolidation method. To the extent any of these companies have poor financial results or encounter difficulties in their operations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Many of these companies have not yet generated significant revenues, have incurred losses and have invested heavily in research, development and marketing of their products. We anticipate that the majority of these companies will continue to record losses in the future. Our financial results are directly impacted by our ability to conclude profitable “exit” transactions. Our financial results are directly impacted by our ability to conclude profitable “exit” transactions regarding certain of the companies in our group. If worldwide market conditions in the technology industry or other factors do not permit us to conclude these types of transactions, our results will be adversely affected. We may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in publicly traded companies in our group. Due to the limitations of U.S. securities laws, material non-public information to which we may become exposed due to our representation on the boards of directors of companies in our group, and contractual and legal limits on the tradability of the shares, we may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in publicly traded companies in our group at a time and in a manner we deem suitable. Our market value significantly depends on the market values of publicly-traded companies in our group. Our market value is directly impacted by the market values of Given Imaging and Partner, each of whose shares are traded in the public markets. To the extent that the share prices of either of these companies decline, our market value will be negatively impacted. In particular, we are affected by the price of shares of Given Imaging,. If the share prices of either of these companies decline, our market value could be adversely affected. The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. The market value of our ordinary shares has fluctuated over time. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: • the market price of our group companies which are publicly traded, in particular, Given Imaging; • our group companies, their competitors or other third parties announcing technological innovations, new products or earnings or losses; • periodic variations in results of operations of our group companies; • factors that generally affect the market for stocks of medical device, telecommunications, semiconductor and advanced materials companies; 6 • political, economic or other developments affecting Israel; • global economic and other external factors; and • quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our financial results. Many of our group companies may face difficulties in obtaining future financing on favorable terms or at all. Many of our group companies have extensive research and development and marketing costs and limited revenues, if any. In order to succeed, these companies may require additional capital to fund these costs. If these companies have difficulties in obtaining financing from their current shareholders, which may also include additional investments by us in these companies, or from new financing sources, their continued operations may be at risk. This would adversely affect our financial performance and results of operations. Bank of Israel regulations limit our and our group companies’ ability to borrow from Israeli banks. Bank of Israel regulations stipulate lending limits of Israeli banks to companies and individuals considered to be in an affiliated group, which limits the amount available to such affiliated group to borrow from such banks. We and our group companies are part of the IDB affiliated group of companies, which is one of the largest groups of affiliated companies in Israel. The IDB group includes many Israeli companies, which require, or which hold ownership interests in companies which require, extensive credit facilities from Israeli banks for the operation of their businesses. These regulations may result in difficulties for us and our group companies to obtain bank financing, if required. Our results may be affected by volatility in the securities markets. Securities markets in general are volatile, and are particularly volatile with respect to high-technology companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies’ securities is not necessarily related to their operating performance, these companies may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. These difficulties and the volatility of the securities markets in general may also affect our and our group companies’ ability to realize investments. The downturn experienced by the technology markets in which our group companies operate may re-occur. Our group companies are affected by the demand for the technologies and technology products they develop and produce. The technology sector has previously experienced a prolonged and severe downturn, reflected in a steep decline in technology spending resulting in revenue declines for our more mature companies and difficulties in raising financing for our early stage companies. There is no assurance that a downturn will not re-occur or that the technology sector will continue to grow. If a downturn re-occurs, our and our group companies’ operations will be adversely affected. We compete with other entities for acquisition and investment opportunities. As part of our overall strategy, we pursue acquisitions of, and investments in, Israeli companies and Israel-related technology companies. The success of a number of Israeli companies, particularly in information and communications technology and medical devices, has prompted potential investors to seek investment opportunities in Israel, which has allowed many Israeli high-technology companies to gain direct access to Israeli and foreign public securities markets. We compete for acquisition and investment opportunities with other established and well-capitalized entities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to locate acquisition or investment opportunities upon favorable terms. Our failure to consummate further acquisitions or 7 investments in the future may hinder our ability to grow and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that our subsidiary RDC will be able to continue to develop successful technologies and /or group companies. Our wholly-owned subsidiary DEP holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares and voting rights of RDC, established by DEP together with Rafael Armaments Development Authority Ltd., or Rafael pursuant to an agreement entered into between DEP and Rafael in 1993. RDC has first rights to exploit commercially technologies of Rafael for the development of products for use in non-military markets, which rights are dependent primarily upon RDC’s or Rafael’s identification of existing technologies for commercial uses, or the development by Rafael of new technologies, Rafael’s willingness to transfer the necessary human or other resources to develop and exploit commercially its technology in non-military markets, and RDC reaching agreement with Rafael on the terms of any commercial exploitation. RDC is currently involved in a dispute with Rafael regarding Rafael’s request to limit the scope of RDC’s rights under the agreement to certain fields or applications and to limit the period of the agreement even though the agreement is unlimited in time. Our ability to continue to grow and develop RDC could be harmed, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, if we are unable to realize the full potential value of RDC’s agreement with Rafael as a result of any of the following: • Rafael and RDC do not reach consensus on Rafael’s requests regarding limiting the scope and period of RDC’s rights under the agreement, • Rafael does not cooperate with RDC in the realization of RDC’s rights under the agreement, • Rafael or RDC do not identify existing technology, or Rafael does not develop new technology, that can be commercially exploited in non-military markets, • Rafael does not transfer the necessary human or other resources to develop and exploit commercially this technology in non-military markets, • RDC does not reach agreement with Rafael on the terms of any commercial exploitation, or • the continued financing of RDC by its shareholders. Most of our group companies are dependent upon proprietary technology which may be infringed upon or may infringe upon the proprietary technology of others. Most of our group companies greatly depend on their proprietary technology for their success. Like many other technology companies, most of these companies rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, together with non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality clauses in their agreements, including employment agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect proprietary rights in their products. These companies may not be able to enforce their proprietary rights under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Our group companies may not successfully protect their technology because, among other reasons: • some foreign countries may not protect their proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States; 8 • enforcing their rights may be time consuming and costly, diverting management’s attention and company resources; • measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements afford only limited protection; • unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of their products and develop similar software or to obtain and use information that they regard as proprietary; and • competitors may independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to their products or circumvent intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert infringement claims against our group companies. The cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims are valid. Many of our group companies experience intense competition. Many of our group companies experience competition from companies with significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, who have easier market access, better operational infrastructure, longer operating histories, larger installed client bases, greater name recognition, more established relationships and alliances in their industries and offer a broader range of products and services. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in clients’ requirements, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive product and services pricing or devote greater resources to the promotion of their products and services. If our group companies are unable to successfully compete, their businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our group companies may experience delays in product development. Companies in our group involved in technology product development may experience delays in development which may result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. Delays and difficulties associated with new product introductions or product enhancements could negatively impact the business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations of these companies and, as a result, our financial results. Israeli government programs in which certain of our group companies participate may be terminated or reduced in the future. In addition, the terms of such programs restrict the ability of our group companies to manufacture products and/or transfer technologies outside of Israel. Certain of our group companies participate in programs of the Office of the Israeli Chief Scientist, or the OCS and the Israel Investment Center, for which they receive grants and tax related and other benefits. The benefits available under these programs depend on our group companies meeting specified conditions. If our group companies fail to comply with these conditions, they may be required to pay additional taxes and penalties and be denied future benefits. We cannot assure you that these benefits will be available in the future at their current levels or at all. Under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, and related regulations, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required for any transfer of technology developed with OCS funding. There is no assurance that our group 9 companies will receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following additional restrictions: • our group companies could be required to pay the OCS a portion of the consideration received upon any sale of such technology or group company to an entity that is not Israeli. The scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the technology was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price, will be taken into account in order to calculate the amount of the payment; and • the transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties (up to 300% of the amount of the grant plus interest, depending on the percentage of the manufacturing transferred outside of Israel). These restrictions may limit the ability of our group companies to conclude transactions with international companies, including “exit” transactions. We and our group companies may have difficulty retaining key employees. Our success and the success of our group companies depend, in large part, on a limited number of key management, scientific and technical personnel. In addition, future success will depend upon, in part, attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we or our group companies will be able to either retain present personnel or acquire additional qualified personnel as and when needed. The loss of the services of our key personnel or those of our group companies and the failure to attract highly qualified personnel may have a negative impact on our business. Many of our group companies depend on international operations. Many of our group companies depend on sales to customers outside Israel. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of these companies’ revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, changes in international, political, economic or geographic events could result in significant shortfalls in orders or revenues. These shortfalls could cause the business, financial condition and results of operations of these companies to be harmed. Some of the risks of doing business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the fluctuation of the New Israeli Shekel/U.S. Dollar representative rate of exchange; • the inability of our group companies, their subsidiaries and subcontractors to obtain export licenses; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • political and economic instability; 10 • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and • acts of terror. Some of these factors, such as the ability to obtain export licenses and changes in diplomatic relations, may be affected by Israel’s overall political situation. See “Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies.” In addition, the economic and political stability of the countries of the major customers and suppliers of our group companies may also impact their business. Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies. We and most of our group companies conduct our principal operations in Israel, and therefore are directly affected by the political, economic, and military conditions affecting Israel and the Middle East. In particular, we could be adversely affected by: • any major hostilities involving Israel; • a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; • the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; • a significant increase in inflation; • a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel; • a significant downgrading of Israel’s international credit rating; • labor disputes and strike actions; and • political instability Since September 2000, there has been a significant increase in violence, civil unrest and hostility, including armed clashes, between the State of Israel and the Palestinians, and acts of terror have been committed inside Israel and against Israeli targets in the West Bank and Gaza including armed hostilities between Israel, the Palestinian Authority and other groups in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Israel has responded with military action and is building a security fence, the route of which has been the subject of a great deal of controversy. Despite Israel’s unilateral withdrawal from part of the territories, there is an impasse in the entire peace process. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the area’s problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel’s economic development. Any further escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region could have a negative effect on our and our group companies’ business and financial condition, harm our and our group companies’ results of operations and adversely affect our share price or the share prices of our group companies that are publicly traded. Our and our group companies’ operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel in Israel to perform military service. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under a specified age, as a general rule, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. Our operations and those of our group companies could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our or our group companies’ officers or employees. While we and our group 11 companies have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. The results of operations of our group companies may be harmed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that our group companies are based in Israel and have international operations, or operate only in Israel but conduct their business in different currencies, their revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, are not necessarily in the same currency and therefore they are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. These fluctuations may negatively affect their results of operations. Some of our group companies may attempt to hedge their foreign currency exposure from time to time; however, we cannot assure you that if they do so they will be successful. Our group companies may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete. Some of our group companies currently have non-competition agreements with substantial numbers of their employees who are involved in research and development. In many cases, these employees are located primarily in Israel. These agreements prohibit the company’s employees, if they cease working for the company, from directly competing with the company or working for its competitors. Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If any of our group companies cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to it, the company may be unable to prevent its competitors from benefiting from the expertise of its former employees. Product liability claims could adversely affect the business results of our group companies operating in the medical device industry. Product liability is an inherent risk for our group companies operating in the medical device industry. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to a group company and a substantial diversion of management attention. A product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm a group company’s reputation and result in a decline in revenues. Substantial damages awards have been made in some jurisdictions against medical device companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. There can be no assurance that a future product liability claim or series of claims brought against our group companies would not have an adverse effect on their business or the results of operations, or that product liability insurance would be adequate. Product regulation may adversely affect the ability of our medical device group companies to bring new products to market or to continue to supply existing products to the market. Our medical device group companies are subject to strict government controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of products. They must obtain and maintain regulatory approval for their products from regulatory agencies before products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. Each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements and delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patents and products of competitors and related patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are only a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of product registration. Noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, 12 ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar regulatory actions which could limit product sales, delay or halt product shipment, delay new product clearance or approval, and adversely affect such group companies’ results of operations. Because the medical device industry is litigious, our medical device group companies are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause our group companies to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit them from selling their products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from the company’s core business. See below under “Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Given Imaging.” If our medical device group companies are unable to obtain reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using their products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing their products, demand for their products may be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for products produced by our medical device group companies, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our medical device group companies’ products or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers as compared to alternative procedures, our medical device group companies may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support their businesses. In addition, our medical device group companies could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement amounts or methods for procedures in which their products are used. Our telecommunications group companies operate in a highly regulated telecommunications market which limits their flexibility to manage their businesses. The telecommunications market is subject to government regulation regarding licensing, competition, frequency allocation and costs and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. The business and operations of our group companies which operate in this market, primarily Partner and NetVision, could be adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting its business activities. These could include decisions by the regulator increasing the rate of royalties to be paid to the State of Israel, enlarging the types of revenues which the royalties apply to, setting policies and imposing new regulations governing electronic trade and mobile commerce, or further reducing call or Short Message Service, or SMS, termination tariffs, as well as the amendment or revocation of their licenses. Certain of our telecommunications group companies can only operate their businesses for as long as they have a license from the Ministry of Communications. Partner and NetVision Ltd., or NetVision, conduct their respective operations pursuant to their respective licenses granted to each of them by the Ministry of Communications. These licenses are subject to revocation in accordance with their terms, and the terms of the licenses are subject to change by the Ministry of Communications (including by imposing additional requirements). 13 The semiconductor industry in which certain of our group companies operate is cyclical in nature and is characterized by ongoing changes. The semiconductor industry has historically been a highly cyclical industry. Companies in the semiconductor industry have expanded aggressively during periods of increased demand. This expansion has frequently resulted in overcapacity and excess inventories during periods of downturn, thereby adversely impacting upon the results of operations of our group companies operating in the semiconductor field. In addition, the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid ongoing changes, including: (1) changes in customers’ capacity requirements and capital spending, which depend in part on customers’ inventory levels relative to demand for their products; (2) the importance of driving down cost of ownership of systems; (3) more complex technology requirements; (4) the increasing significance of consumer electronics as a driver for chip demand and the related focus on lower prices; (5) varying levels of business information technology spending; (6) the growing types and varieties of integrated circuits and applications; (7) a rising percentage of business from customers in Asia and emergence of customers and competitors in new geographical regions; (8) customer demands for shorter lead times for the manufacture and installation of semiconductor manufacturing equipment; and (9) higher capital requirements for new semiconductor fabrication plants. If our semiconductor companies do not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, their businesses, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Specific Risks Affecting Elron We may be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, a company must register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, and comply with significant restrictions on operations and transactions with affiliates if its investment securities exceed 40% of the company’s total assets, or if it holds itself out as being primarily engaged in the business of investing in, owning or holding securities. The 1940 Act provides for various exemptions from the obligation to register thereunder, and in 1980 we received an order from the SEC, declaring that we are not an investment company under the 1940 Act. If certain of our investments were to adversely affect our status under the 1940 Act, we might need to dispose of or acquire other investments to avoid the requirement to register as an investment company on terms that may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we were deemed to be an investment company and therefore required to register as such under the 1940 Act, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do, as a result of which our market value would be severely harmed. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of our assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than the capital gain rate. In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts 14 received as distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the Internal Revenue Service. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any given year, then dividends paid in that year and in the next year cannot qualify as “qualified dividends” which are eligible for the capital gains rate for certain U.S. Shareholders. A determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our shares. Following the sale of our shares in Elbit Systems in 2004, we announced that, as a result of the transaction, we may be characterized as a PFIC for 2004. Following a review of our position and consulting with our advisors on this matter in 2004, and based on certain assumptions and facts known at that time (which we believe have not changed), we believe there is substantial authority for the position that we can rely on the “change of business” exception to PFIC status provided under Section 1298(b)(3) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Substantial authority is generally sufficient to support a return reporting position. Pursuant to this exception, in order to avoid PFIC status in 2004, among other requirements, we cannot be a PFIC in 2005 or 2006 (which cannot be determined at this time with respect to 2006) or in any year prior to 2004 (which we believe was not the case). We believe that in 2005 we were not a PFIC. However, since the determination of whether we are a PFIC is based upon such factual matters as the valuation of our assets and, in certain cases, the assets of companies held by us, there can be no assurance with respect to the position of the Internal Revenue Service or a court of law as to our status as a PFIC. Our analysis related to 2005 is based, among others, upon certain assumptions and methodologies with respect to the values that we have used; our percentage ownership (by value), and the appropriate value of our ownership interest, in companies we held; and the manner in which we have allocated the aggregate value of our assets among our active assets and passive assets. We cannot assure you that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our assumptions and methodologies. If the IRS were to challenge successfully such assumptions or methodologies, we would potentially be classified as a PFIC for 2005 or prior years. With respect to 2006, the ultimate determination of our PFIC status will depend on the composition of our gross income and assets for the entire year, and the values of those assets, which are difficult to predict at this time and the appropriate value of our ownership interest in our group companies. In view of the above, it is unclear whether the “change of business” exception would ultimately be satisfied for 2004. We cannot assure shareholders that the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our reliance on the “change of business” exception or our assumptions used in determining our percentage of passive assets and income. If there are such challenges, we could be classified as a PFIC for 2004, even if we are not a PFIC in 2005 and 2006. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in the future. See “Item 10. Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations - Tax Consequences if We are a Passive Foreign Investment Company”. U.S. holders of our shares are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of the passive foreign investment company rules. 15 One of our shareholders beneficially owns a substantial amount of our ordinary shares and may therefore influence our affairs. As of May 31, 2006, Discount Investment Corporation Ltd., or DIC, beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 47.6% of our ordinary shares and has the ability, in effect, to elect the members of our board of directors and to significantly influence our business. A majority of the members of our board of directors are officers or directors of DIC or its parent company, IDB Development Corporation Ltd., or IDBD, or its parent company, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., or IDBH. It may be difficult to serve process or to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and our officers. Since all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, it may be difficult to effect service of process on us, our directors or officers within the United States. Furthermore, because most of our assets are located outside the United States, it may not be possible to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or the aforementioned individuals in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Given Imaging The following risk factor sections have been condensed for the purposes of this Annual Report. The risks associated with Given Imaging are more fully described in documents filed by Given Imaging with the SEC. The price of Given Imaging’s shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including varying quarterly financial performance or its failure to meet its guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in its share price. Given Imaging’s ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq National Market and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. In 2005, the closing price of its shares has ranged from $20.39 to $36.04 per share on the Nasdaq National Market and NIS 95.79 to NIS155.3 on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. The price of Given Imaging’s shares could fluctuate significantly for, among other things, the following reasons: future announcements concerning Given Imaging or its competitors, the existence of litigation concerning Given Imaging’s intellectual property assets, changes in third-party reimbursement practices, regulatory developments, and new clinical or economic data regarding Given Imaging’s current or future products. In addition, it is Given Imaging’s practice to provide guidance to the market as to its expected revenues and earnings per share based on information available to Given Imaging at the time of the guidance. If Given Imaging’s quarterly operating results do not meet its guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of Given Imaging’s shares would likely decline. Therefore, revenues from system sales may be concentrated at the end of each fiscal quarter making it difficult for Given Imaging to determine the success of each quarter until its end and resulting in lower than expected quarterly revenues if external or other events cause a large number of potential customers to defer their purchasing decisions even for a short period of time. Furthermore, Given Imaging believes that demand for systems and capsules may be materially affected by seasonal factors during the summer months which may result in slower sales during the summer. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated by low trading volume of Given Imaging’s ordinary shares and changes in trading practices in Given Imaging’s ordinary shares, such as short buying and selling. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against 16 companies following periods of volatility. Any securities litigation claims brought against Given Imaging could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from its business. Given Imaging may be unable to maintain or increase its profitability. Given Imaging was formed in 1998 and recorded initial sales of its principal product, the Given System, in the third quarter of 2001. Given Imaging incurred losses until the second quarter of 2004 and has maintained profitability until the quarter ended December 31, 2005. Given Imaging has significant operating expenses and must continue increasing its revenues from sales of the Given System and of the PillCam capsules at a higher rate than the increase in its expenses in order to maintain and grow its profits. If Given Imaging is unable to achieve broader penetration of the Given System among gastroenterologists, it may not be able to maintain its current growth rate. Given Imaging’s principal product is the Given System, consisting of a line of PillCam capsules and the related data recorder and computer workstation. As of December 31, 2005, Given Imaging had sold over 2,860 systems worldwide. Growth in Given Imaging’s installed base has contributed to its revenue growth. If Given Imaging is unable to continue to achieve broad penetration among gastroenterologists, Given Imaging may be unable to maintain its current growth rate. Given Imaging currently depends on sales of the PillCam SB for a substantial majority of its revenues. A substantial portion of Given Imaging’s annual revenue growth to date has resulted from increased sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Given Imaging expects that a substantial majority of its revenues for the foreseeable future will come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule and other PillCam capsules. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $22.9 million, or 56.4%, in 2003, $41.6 million, or 64%, in 2004 and $62.5 million, or 72% in 2005 of Given Imaging’s total revenues. Given Imaging believes that the usage rate of the PillCam capsules is an important factor in growing revenues. Increasing the usage rate of customers is also important to attracting new customers to purchase and use the Given System. If Given Imaging is unable to increase the usage rate of the Given System, Given Imaging may not be able to achieve the revenues necessary to maintain its revenue growth. Given Imaging’s future growth also depends in part on the success of Ethicon Endo-Surgery in marketing its new PillCam ESO video capsule, particularly in the United States. In May 2004, Given Imaging entered into an exclusive sales representation and co-promotion agreement with Ethicon Endo-Surgery, a Johnson & Johnson company. InScope, a division of Ethicon Endo-Surgery established to market products to the gastroenterology market, has exclusive rights to market Given Imaging’s PillCam ESO capsule in the United States. Under the agreement, InScope is responsible for marketing the PillCam ESO capsule and, consequently, Given Imaging’s future growth depends in part on the success of InScope in doing so. Sales of the PillCam ESO capsule in 2005 were lower than expected and may continue to be lower than expected if InScope is not successful in marketing the PillCam ESO capsule. This may negatively impact Given Imaging’s revenue growth. Given Imaging faces direct competition from manufacturers of capsule endoscopy systems and may lose market share if Given Imaging is unable to compete effectively in the marketplace or utilize its patent portfolio. In October 2005, Olympus Corporation launched a competing capsule endoscopy system and began sales in Europe and Australia. Based on publicly available information, Olympus is also conducting clinical trials in the United States and intends to seek FDA clearance to market its capsule endoscopy system in the United States. In 17 addition, in April 2006, in response to a request made by Olympus in December 2003 to re-examine Given Imaging’s first U.S. Patent #5,604,531, the USPTO issued an office action confirming the validity of 13 of the original 17 claims of this patent. Given Imaging has the right to appeal the rejection of the four other claims. On May 19, 2006, Olympus Corporation and its subsidiaries filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against Given Imaging for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent 5,010,412, entitled “High Frequency, Low Power Light Source for Video Camera.” In addition, other companies in Korea and China began selling capsule endoscopy systems in these territories in 2005. If Given Imaging is unable to compete effectively in the marketplace or utilize its patent portfolio against the Olympus capsule endoscopy system and other competing systems, Given Imaging may lose market share or experience delays in completing sales as a result of longer decision making process among potential customers. Given Imaging may be unable to introduce other products for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Given Imaging’s objective is to expand the use of the Given System by developing and introducing new capsules for visualizing other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, including the stomach and the colon. There can be no assurance of widespread market acceptance of the Given System as superior to existing technologies for detection of abnormalities in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or that Given Imaging will succeed in marketing and selling capsules for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, Given Imaging will be required to obtain FDA clearance in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before commercially distributing the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract. If future clinical trials indicate that the Given System is not as clinically or cost-effective in these parts of the gastrointestinal tract as current methods, or that it causes unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, Given Imaging may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or obtain reimbursement coverage, and its growth would be adversely affected. Any disruption in the United States market, the primary market for Given Imaging’s products, may result in a material reduction in Given Imaging’s revenues and negatively affect its results of operations. Since Given Imaging began selling the Given System in 2001, most of its revenues have been generated from sales in the United States. Sales in the United States accounted for, $26.2 million, or 65%, of its revenues in 2003, $46.7 million, or 72%, of its revenues in 2004 and $63.9 million, or 74%, of its revenues in 2005. Any disruption to Given Imaging’s market in the United States resulting from adverse changes in reimbursement policies, regulatory requirements, competitors, macro-economic changes and other events, many of which are outside Given Imaging’s control, may result in a material reduction in its revenues and negatively affect its results of operations. Given Imaging’s reliance on sole source suppliers could harm its ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. Given Imaging depends on sole source suppliers for some of the components necessary for the production of the Given System. Specifically, Micron Technology, Inc., through its Micron Imaging Group and other wholly-owned subsidiaries, is currently the sole supplier of the imaging sensor and the packaging for the sensor, and Zarlink Semiconductors is currently the sole supplier of the transmitter that is 18 integrated into the PillCam capsules. If the supply of these components is disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers are unable to supply the quantities of components that Given Imaging requires, it may not be able to find alternative sources for these key components. If Given Imaging is required to change the manufacturer of any of these key components of the Given System, there may be a significant delay in locating and/or verifying a suitable alternative manufacturer. Furthermore, in the event that the manufacturer of a key component of Given Imaging’s product ceases operations or otherwise ceases to do business with Given Imaging, Given Imaging may not have access to the information necessary to enable another supplier to manufacture the component. The occurrence of any of the above events could harm the ability of Given Imaging to meet demand for its products in a timely manner or within budget, which could harm its ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage its reputation. Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Partner The following risk factor sections have been condensed for the purposes of this Annual Report. The risks associated with Partner are more fully described in documents filed by Partner with the SEC. We are restricted in our ability to freely dispose of our holdings in Partner. Almost all of our shares in Partner are subject to transfer restrictions stipulated by Partner’s license which requires that at least 5% of the economic and voting interest of Partner be owned by Israeli citizens and residents (“Minimum Israeli Percentage”). Pursuant to the relationship agreement between the founding shareholders of Partner, each Israeli party to the relationship agreement, including us, has undertaken to maintain such portion of the shares as is necessary to maintain the Minimum Israeli Percentage. These restrictions limit our ability to freely dispose of our shares in Partner. Partner expects its subscriber growth rate, and consequently its revenue growth rate, to slow because Israel’s mobile telephone services market is highly penetrated, making it more difficult to obtain new subscribers than in the past. Because the Israeli market for mobile telephones is highly penetrated, future demand for Partner’s services will not grow at the same rate as it has in the past, and Partner’s subscriber growth will not develop at the same rate as in the past and will depend significantly on Partner’s ability to retain existing subscribers in its network and to attract subscribers from the other mobile telephone network operators. While Partner’s market share, based on internal estimates, has increased from approximately 13% of Israeli mobile subscribers at December 31, 1999 to approximately 32% at December 31, 2005. Partner’s market share growth has slowed since 2003 and Partner expects this trend to continue. Competition from existing competitors may require Partner to increase its subscriber acquisition costs and customer retention costs and increase its churn rate. Partner competes primarily with Cellcom (a company controlled by DIC) and Pelephone, two of the other mobile telephone network operators in Israel. Because of the ease of switching between cellular operators, Partner has already faced and may continue to face an increase in its churn rate and may be forced to increase its customer retention costs, including subsidies towards upgrades of subscribers’ handsets, in order to retain subscribers. In 2005, Partner experienced a higher churn rate than in 2004, primarily due to the prepaid sector. Competition, including increased 19 competition resulting from the introduction of number portability, may further increase the churn rate. Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Oncura Oncura may incur future losses and be unable to achieve profitability. Oncura was formed in 2003 and has generated net losses from the commencement of its operations in July 2003 through December 31, 2005. Oncura has significant operating expenses and there is no assurance that Oncura will be able to achieve profitability in the future. Oncura expects to derive a significant portion of its future revenues from its cryotherapy products, which could fail to achieve broad market acceptance or generate significant revenue growth. Oncura expects that revenues from its cryotherapy products will grow significantly over time. Accordingly, Oncura’s success is in large part dependent on acceptance by physicians and patients of its cryotherapy products. Although cryotherapy has existed for many years, it has not been widely accepted due to a variety of factors including concerns over the safety and efficacy of the technology and the availability of alternative therapies. If Oncura’s cryotherapy products do not achieve broad market acceptance, Oncura may not be able to achieve the revenue growth necessary to achieve and maintain profitability. Oncura is dependent on its two shareholders, GE Healthcare and Galil Medical and there is no assurance that they will continue to support Oncura. Oncura depends primarily on GE Healthcare and Galil Medical, for manufacturing its products. Although Oncura has long-term supply agreements with each of GE Healthcare and Galil Medical, its business could be seriously harmed if it were unable to maintain these relationships or if GE Healthcare or Galil Medical were unable to continue to manufacture the company’s products. In addition, Oncura’s operations from inception through December 31, 2005 have not generated positive cash flows and its corresponding working capital deficits have been financed by loans from its shareholders. If Oncura is not able to secure suitable third-party financing to fund its working capital deficits, the company will continue to need to rely on its shareholders to provide necessary funding until such time as the company becomes cash flow positive or can obtain necessary financing from a third-party. Each of Oncura’s shareholders provided to Oncura a letter in which they confirmed their intention to continue providing financial support to Oncura through May 31, 2007 or such later date as may be agreed by them. There is no assurance that Oncura’s shareholders, including Galil Medical, of which we beneficially own, as of May 31, 2006, 60% of the shares directly and indirectly, will continue to fund Oncura’s working capital deficit after May 31, 2007 or maintain their respective holdings in Oncura, which may adversely affect Oncura's business and results of operations. Risk Affecting Our Holdings in NetVision The market for the supply of Internet access services and value added services in Israel is very competitive. The supply of Internet access services requires a special license from the Israeli Ministry of Communications whose policy is to encourage competition and therefore does 20 not place any material barriers to entry into the market. Since the beginning of 2004, competition in the market has focused on broadband Internet services. NetVision continues to experience increased competition in gaining broadband communication market share, mainly from companies such as Internet Gold (Nasdaq:IGLD), Bezeq International, Barak I.T.C. (1995) Ltd., or Barak, and 012 Golden Lines Ltd., or Golden Lines. As of December 31, 2005, NetVision estimates that it held approximately 25% of the broadband Internet communication market in Israel. Competition from existing and new competitors may require NetVision to reduce its tariffs and increase its subscriber acquisition and retention costs as a result of which NetVision’s results of operations could be adversely impacted. Due to the intense competition, there has been a slow down in the increase of NetVision’s subscriber base. NetVision is currently engaged in merger discussions with Barak. There is no assurance that the proposed merger will take place. The market for the supply of international telephone services in Israel is very competitive The market for international telephony services, which NetVision entered in November 2004, is very competitive. The three major competitors are Bezek International, Golden Lines and Barak. Such competition may result in a decrease in prices to a level which will make penetration for NetVision more difficult, decrease NetVision’s profits or even result in losses for NetVision, from these activities. In such event, NetVision’s investment in its international telephone activities will be negatively impacted which in turn will negatively affect NetVision’s results of operations. NetVision relies on certain third-parties for leased lines. NetVision relies on certain third-party service providers including local and long distance telecommunications companies, such as Bezeq and Med Nautilus, for leased lines. Internet access by NetVision’s customers is dependent on the telecommunications infrastructure owned and maintained by Bezeq and the local cable companies. If NetVision’s subscribers’ access to Israel’s fixed-line telecommunications infrastructure is disrupted, it would significantly impact the services that NetVision provides to its subscribers and could result in a substantial reduction in Internet access volume and revenue. Furthermore an increase in the cost of access to Israel’s fixed-line telecommunications infrastructure could also adversely impact NetVision’s results of operations. 