D. Risk Factors Specific Risks Affecting Elron Our ability to repay our loans from the bank and Discount Investment Corporation, or DIC, our principal shareholder, while continuing to fund our group companies' operations is dependent on our ability to realize holdings of our group companies at significant values or, alternatively, to raise the necessary financing. We have a $30 million credit facilty with Discount Bank of Israel, secured by a pledge of certain of our shares of Given Imaging Ltd. (Nasdaq and TASE:GIVN), or Given Imaging, which we have fully utilized. In addition, we have received $15 million in outstanding loans from our principal shareholder, DIC. We are required to repay the DIC loans and credit facility during the period June 2011 to Septembe r 2011. As of March 1, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents amounted to $50.5 million. In addition, we have direct holdings in public companies with a market value as of March 1, 2010 amounting to $181 million. Our ability to repay our shareholder loans and/or credit facility as and when due while continuing to fund our group companies' operations will depend upon our ability to realize holdings of our group companies at significant values or, alternatively, to raise the necessary financing. If the potential sale of Medingo (See "Item 4 – Information on the Company") does not occur and Medingo is unable to raise financing from external sources, a significant portion of our financial resources may be utilized towards financing Medingo's operations. For more Information – See "Risk Factors affecting our holdings in Medingo". Moreover, should the share price of Given Imaging decrease, we may be required to pledge additional assets to the bank to secure the credit facility. Our principal shareholder, Discount Investment Corporation, or DIC, has the ability to significantly influence our business and affairs. As of December 31, 2009, DIC beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 49% of our ordinary shares and has the ability, in effect, to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors. A majority of the members of our board of directors are officers or directors (including a relative of one director) of DIC or its controlling shareholder, IDB Development Corporation Ltd., or IDBD, or its controlling shareholder, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., or IDBH. Furthermore, we entered into a Services Agreement with DIC pursuant to which, effective from May 1, 2009, we receive substantially all of our managerial and administrative services from DIC and one of our co-Chief Executive Officers is an officer of DIC. For more information see "Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders." Accordingly, DIC has the ability to significantly influence our business and affairs. 9 We have voluntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market and intend to seek to terminate our Exchange Act registration. In view of the significant costs associated with maintaining a U.S. listing, our relatively limited number of U.S. holders of record and the fact that a substantial majority of the trading of our shares then occurred on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE, we voluntarily delisted our shares from the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, on January 6, 2010. As a result of our delisting, we are now required to comply with reporting requirements in accordance with both Israeli and applicable U.S. securities laws. We intend to terminate the registration of our shares under the Exchange Act as soon as permitted under SEC rules. We currently expect such deregistration to take effect, if at all, not earlier than the first quarter of 2011. The foregoing actions may have an adverse impact on the market price for our ordinary shares. If we are successful in terminating our Exchange Act registration, we will no longer be obligated to file reports with or furnish reports to the SEC, including annual reports on Form 20-F and reports on Form 6-K. After deregistration under the Exchange Act, we will continue to be governed by disclosure requirements under applicable Israeli law and regulations. We may be deemed to be an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, a company must register under the Investment Company Act of 1940 as amended, or the 1940 Act, and comply with significant restrictions on operations and transactions with affiliates if it is engaged in the business of investing, owning, holding or trading securities and owns investment securities (as defined in the 1940 Act) exceeding 40% of the company's total assets, or if it holds itself out as being engaged primarily in the business of investing in, reinvesting or trading securities. The 1940 Act provides for various exemptions from the obligation to r egister thereunder, and in 1980 we received an order from the SEC, declaring that we are not an investment company under the 1940 Act. If certain of our investments were to adversely affect our status under the 1940 Act, we might need to dispose of or acquire other investments to avoid the requirement to register as an investment company on terms that may not be favorable to us. In addition, if we were deemed to be an investment company and therefore required to register as such under the 1940 Act, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do, as a result of which our market value would be severely harmed. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. Generally, if for any taxable year, (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of our assets (averaged quarterly over our taxable year) are held for the production of, or produce, passive income, then we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares taxed at ordinary income rates, rather than the capital gain rate. Similar rules apply to distributions that are classified as "excess distributions"). In addition, both gains upon disposition and amounts received as distributions could be subject to an additional interest charge by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. A determination that we are a PFIC could also have an adverse effect on the price and marketability of our ordinary shares. 10 We believe that in 2009 we were not a PFIC. However, since the determination of whether we are a PFIC is based upon such factual matters as the valuation of our assets and, in certain cases, the assets of companies held by us, there can be no assurance with respect to the position of the IRS or a court of law as to our status as a PFIC. Our analysis is based, among other things, upon certain assumptions and methodologies with respect to the values that we have used; our percentage ownership (by value), and the appropriate value of our ownership interest, in companies we have held; and the manner in which we have allocated the aggregate value of our assets among our active assets and passive assets. There is no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our assumptions and methodologies. If the IRS were to challenge successfully such assumptions or methodologies, we may potentially be classified as a PFIC for 2009 or prior taxable years. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in the future. U.S. holders of our shares are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application and potential effects of the PFIC rules. See "Item 10 – Additional Information – Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences If We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company." It may be difficult to serve process or to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our directors and our officers. Since all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States, it may be difficult to effect service of process on us, our directors or officers within the United States. Furthermore, because most of our assets are located outside the United States, it may not be possible to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or the aforementioned individuals in the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 and the Exchange Act in original actions instituted in Israel. Risks Affecting Us and the Companies in Our Group The current economic slowdown has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our and our group companies' results and financial condition and could lead to impairment charges. The crisis of the financial and credit markets worldwide which took place during 2008 and continuing into 2009, led to an economic slowdown worldwide and uncertainty surrounding world financial markets and the worldwide economy as a whole. As a result, high-technology companies, such as our group companies, experienced difficulties in raising additional financing required in order to complete their development activities and/or grow their business as well as a decrease in the demand for their products. A continuati on or worsening of unfavorable economic conditions could have an adverse impact on our or our group companies' business. Therefore, we may in the future record impairment charges if the fair value of certain investments decrease below their carrying amount in other than a temporary manner. The economic slowdown also affects our ability to raise additional capital and to sell holdings of our group companies. Accordingly, the economic slowdown has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial results and financial condition and could lead to us recording impairment charges. 11 Our financial results and financial condition are principally impacted by the results of operation ofs, and the value of our holdings in, our group companies, which are primarily concentrated in Given Imaging. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our share of the results of operations of our group companies, accounted for a majority of our net loss. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, our holdings in group companies represented approximately 60% of our total assets. In particular, as of December 31, 2009, the carrying amount of our holdings in Given Imaging represented approxim ately 49% of our total assets. If our group companies experience difficulties in the future, or if there are adverse changes in their market price or fair value, our financial results and/or the value of our assets will be adversely affected, and we may need to write-down or write-off the carrying value of our holdings. Our financial results significantly depend on the results of operations of our group companies, which have generated losses and continue to invest heavily in their development. Our results of operations are directly impacted by the results of operations of our group companies accounted for under the equity or consolidation method. To the extent any of these companies have poor financial results or encounter difficulties in their operations, our financial results will be negatively impacted. Many of these companies are in the development stage and have not yet generated significant revenues, have incurred losses and have invested heavily in research and development and marketing of their products. We anticipate that the majo rity of these companies will continue to record losses in the future. Our financial results and our cash reserves are directly impacted by our ability to conclude "exit" transactions at significant values, which has been made more difficult by the global economic downturn. Our financial results and cash reserves are directly impacted by our ability to conclude "exit" transactions for certain of the companies in our group. The current economic slowdown has adversely affected our ability to effect exit transactions at significant values. If worldwide market conditions in the technology industry or other factors, including the continued impact of the downturn of the economy, do not permit us to conclude these types of transactions, our results and cash resources will continue to be adversely aff ected. We may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in publicly traded companies in our group. Due to the limitations of U.S. and Israeli securities laws, material non-public information to which we may become exposed because of our representation on the boards of directors of companies in our group which are publicly traded, and contractual and legal limits on the tradability of the shares we own or control may create difficulties in our ability to dispose of our shares in these companies at a time and in a manner we deem suitable. Our ability to invest in companies or conclude exit transactions may be adversely affected and/or prevented by anti-trust regulations both in Israel and abroad. The Israeli anti-trust laws and regulations stipulate that any transaction which qualifies as a "merger" under the Law (which includes the acquisition of a sufficient number of shares in a company to give the acquiring company more than 25% or more of the means of control of an entity), and that meet certain conditions (market share, sales turnover or monopoly status tests), requires the approval of the General Director of Anti-Trust Authority, or the General Director. This ap proval can take up to 30 days to receive and in certain circumstances may be refused or given with certain conditions which may not be favorable. In addition, since our group companies may become involved or be the subject of cross border transactions, foreign anti-trust approvals in the United States and Europe may also be required, which may in turn delay or prevent such transactions from taking place. 12 Our market value significantly depends on the market values of publicly traded companies in our group. Our market value may be directly impacted by the market values of publicly traded companies in our group, and in particular, by the market value of Given Imaging, whose shares are traded on the Nasdaq and the TASE. To the extent that the share price of Given Imaging declines, our market value will be negatively impacted. The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. The market price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly over time. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: ● the continued current global economic slowdown; ● the market price of our group companies that are publicly traded, in particular, Given Imaging; ● low trading volume of our ordinary shares, which is anticipated to decrease following our delisting from Nasdaq; ● our group companies, their competitors or other third parties announcing technological innovations, new products, regulatory developments, new clinical data regarding current or future products or earnings or losses; ● delays or failures in the development of products of our group companies; ● periodic variations in results of operations of our group companies; ● factors that generally affect the market for stocks of medical device, telecommunications and clean technology companies; ● political, economic or other developments affecting Israel; ● global economic and other external factors; and ● quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our financial results. Many of our group companies may face difficulties in obtaining future financing on favorable terms or at all especially in light of the continued current global economic slowdown. Many of our group companies are in the development stage and have extensive research and development and marketing costs and limited revenues, if any. In order to succeed, these companies may require additional capital to fund these costs. If these companies have difficulties obtaining financing from their current shareholders, which may also include additional investments by us in these companies, or from new financing sources, especially in light of the continued current global economic slowdown, their continued operations may be at risk. This would adversely affect ou r financial performance and results of operations. Bank of Israel regulations limit our and our group companies' ability to borrow from Israeli banks. Bank of Israel regulations stipulate lending limits of Israeli banks to companies and individuals considered to be in an associate group, which effectively limit the amount available to companies within such group for borrowing from such banks. We and our group companies are part of the IDB group of affiliated companies, which is one of the largest groups of affiliated companies in Israel. The IDB group includes many Israeli companies that may require, or that hold ownership interests in companies that may require, extensive credit facilities from Israeli banks for the operation of their businesses. These regulations may result in difficulties for u s and our group companies in obtaining or increasing bank financing, if required. 13 Our results, and the value of our investments, are affected by volatility in the securities markets. Securities markets in general are volatile, even more so with the recent economic and financial crisis and its aftermath, and are particularly volatile for publicly traded high-technology companies, including companies that have a significant presence in Israel. Although the volatility of these companies' securities is not necessarily related to their operating performance, such volatility may result in these companies experiencing difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. These difficulties and the volatility of the securities markets in general and specifically following the recent eco nomic and financial crisis have affected and may continue to affect our and our group companies' ability to realize our investments or to raise financing, which in turn may result in us having to record impairment charges. There is no assurance that our subsidiary, RDC, will be able to continue to develop technologies and/or new companies. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, DEP, holds 50.1% of the outstanding shares and voting rights of RDC, which was established by DEP together with the predecessor of Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd., or Rafael, pursuant to an agreement entered into in 1993. RDC has first rights to commercially exploit certain technologies of Rafael for the development of products for use in non-military markets. For more information, see "Item 10C – Additional Information – Material Contracts." Our ability to continue to grow and develop new technologies within RDC could be harmed, and our business, financial condition and res ults of operations could be adversely affected, if we are unable to realize the full potential value of RDC's agreement with Rafael as a result of any of the following: ● Rafael does not cooperate with RDC in the realization of RDC's rights under the agreement; ● Rafael or RDC does not identify existing technology, or Rafael does not develop new technology, that is identified suitable for being commercially exploited in non-military markets; ● Rafael does not transfer human or other resources necessary for the development and commercial exploitation of this technology in non-military markets; ● RDC does not reach agreement with Rafael on the terms of any commercial exploitation; or ● RDC is unable to obtain continued financing from its shareholders or otherwise, if and when required; or ● RDC faces difficulties in securing financial resources to support new and existing innovations. Most of our group companies are dependent upon proprietary technology, which may be infringed by, or may infringe upon, the proprietary technology of others. Most of our group companies depend significantly on their proprietary technology for their success. Like many other technology companies, most of these companies rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, copyright and trademark laws, together with non-disclosure agreements, confidentiality clauses in their agreements, including employment agreements, and technical measures to establish and protect proprietary rights in their products. However, these legal means may not adequately protect our group companies' rights or permit them to acquire or maintain any competitive advantage. div> 14 These companies may not be able to enforce their proprietary rights under the laws of certain jurisdictions. Our group companies may not successfully protect their technology because of, among other reasons: ● Some foreign countries may not protect their proprietary rights as fully as do the laws of the United States; ● The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in patents issued in a form that will be advantageous to our group companies, or at all, and patents and applications for patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties; ● Competitors of our group companies may be issued patents that will prevent our group companies from using technologies, designs or methods that our group companies would like to integrate into their products; ● Enforcing their rights may be time consuming and costly, thereby diverting management’s attention and company resources; ● Measures such as entering into non-disclosure agreements afford us and our group companies only limited protection; ● Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our group companies' products and develop similar products or to obtain and use information that they regard as proprietary; and ● Competitors may independently develop products that are substantially equivalent or superior to our group companies' products or that circumvent their intellectual property rights. In addition, others may assert infringement claims against our group companies, which could have a material adverse impact on the group companies. In addition, the cost of responding to infringement claims could be significant, regardless of whether the claims are valid. If our group companies do not adequately protect their intellectual property, their competitors or other parties could make similar products and compete more efficiently with our group companies. Many of our group companies experience intense competition. Many of our group companies experience competition from companies with significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, who have easier market access, better operational infrastructure, longer operating histories, larger installed client bases, greater name recognition, more established relationships and alliances in their industries and offer a broader range of products and services. As a result, these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in clients' requirements, benefit from greater purchasing economies, offer more aggressive products and services pricing or devote greater resources to the promot ion of their products and services. If our group companies are unable to successfully compete, their businesses, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed, which would in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Our group companies may experience delays or failures in product development. Companies in our group involved in technology product development may experience delays or failures in development, which may result in the loss of, or delay in, market acceptance. Delays and difficulties or failures associated with new product introductions or product enhancements could negatively impact the business, financial condition, prospects and results of operations of these companies and, as a result, our financial results. Israeli government programs in which certain of our group companies participate may be terminated or reduced in the future and may be restrictive in their terms. Certain of our group companies participate in programs of the Office of the Israeli Chief Scientist, or the OCS, and the Israel Investment Center, for which they receive grants and tax related and other benefits for the financing of a portion of their research and development expenditures or investments in Israel as relevant. The terms of such programs restrict the ability of our group companies to manufacture products and/or transfer know-how or technologies outside of Israel. The benefits available under these programs depend on our group companies meeting specified conditions. If our g roup companies fail to comply with these conditions, they may be required to pay additional taxes and penalties, and they may be denied future benefits. There is no assurance as to availability or the level of these benefits in the future. Under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, and related regulations, the discretionary approval of an OCS committee is required prior to any transfer outside of Israel of technology and/or know-how developed with OCS funding in addition to compliance with certain other conditions. There is no assurance that our group companies will receive the required approvals for any proposed transfer. Such approvals, if granted, may be subject to the following, among others, additional restrictions: ● Our group companies could be required to pay the OCS a portion, to be determined by the OCS under applicable law, of the consideration received upon any sale of such intellectual property to an entity that is not Israeli. The scope of the support received, the royalties that were paid, the amount of time that elapsed between the date on which the technology was transferred and the date on which the grants were received, as well as the sale price, will be taken into account in order to calculate the amount of the payment; and ● The transfer of manufacturing rights could be conditioned upon an increase in the royalty rate and payment of increased aggregate royalties (up to 300% of the amount of the grant plus interest, depending on the percentage of the manufacturing transferred outside of Israel). These restrictions will continue to apply even after our relevant group companies have repaid the full amount of royalties payable pursuant to the grants. 16 These restrictions, among others, may limit the ability of our group companies that receive grants to conclude transactions with international companies, including "exit" transactions. In addition, if our group companies fail to comply with the conditions imposed by the OCS, they may be required to refund the grants received immediately, rather than by way of royalties together with interest and penalties, and they may also be subject to criminal charges in the case of a transfer of intellectual property without approval. In addition, the Government of Israel may from time to time audit sales of products which it claims incorporate technology funded through OCS programs which may lead to additional royalties being payable on additional products. We and our group companies may have difficulty retaining key employees. The success of our group companies depend, in large part, on a limited number of key management, scientific and technical personnel. In addition, future success will depend, in part, on attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that our group companies will be able either to retain present personnel or to acquire additional qualified personnel as and when needed. The loss of the services of key personnel of our group companies and the failure to attract highly qualified personnel may have a negative impact on our business. We entered into a Services Agreement with DIC, effective from May 1, 2009, pursuant to which we receive our managerial and administrative services from DIC. There can be no assurance that DIC will be able to retain or attract optimally qualified personnel to provide such services to us, which could have a negative impact on our business. For more information see "Item 7 - Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions - Major Shareholders." Many of our group companies depend on international operations. Many of our group companies depend on sales to customers outside of Israel. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of these companies' revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, changes in international, political, economic or geographic events could result in significant shortfalls in orders or revenues. These shortfalls could cause the business, financial condition and results of operations of these companies to be harmed. Some of the risks of doing business internationally include: ● unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; ● fluctuation of the New Israeli Shekel / U.S. Dollar representative rate of exchange; ● inability of our group companies and their subcontractors to obtain export licenses; ● imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; ● burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; ● political and economic instability; ● changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; and ● acts of terror. Some of these factors, such as the ability to obtain export licenses and changes in diplomatic relations, may be affected by Israel's overall political situation. See "Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies." In addition, the economic and political stability in the countries where our group companies' major customers and suppliers are located may also impact our group companies’ business. 17 Conditions in Israel may affect our operations and the operations of our group companies. We and most of our group companies conduct principal operations in Israel, and therefore are directly affected by the political, economic, and military conditions affecting Israel and the Middle East. In particular, we could be adversely affected by: ● any major hostilities involving Israel; ● a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; ● the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; ● a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel; ● a significant downgrading of Israel's international credit rating; ● labor disputes and strike actions; and ● political instability. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel, including among others, periodic disruption of day-to-day civilian activity in different parts of Israel. More recently, in 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, along Israel’s northern border. In January 2009 Israel became engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip. These developments have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. Any further escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region could have a negative effect on our and our g roup companies' business and financial condition, harm our and our group companies’ results of operations and adversely affect our share price or the share prices of our group companies that are publicly traded. No predictions can be made as to whether or when a final resolution of the region's problems will be achieved or the nature thereof and to what extent the situation will impact Israel's economic development. Our and our group companies' operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of personnel in Israel to perform military service. All non-exempt male adult permanent residents of Israel under a specified age, as a general rule, are obligated to perform military reserve duty and may be called to active duty under emergency circumstances. Our operations and those of our group companies could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our or our group companies' personnel. While we and our group companies have operated effectively despite these conditions in the past, we cannot assess what impact these conditions may have in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances arise. The results of operations of our group companies may be harmed by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent that our group companies are based in Israel and have international operations, or operate only in Israel but conduct their business in different currencies, their revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, are not necessarily in the same currency and therefore they are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. In particular, our functional currency, as well as that of most of our group companies, is the U.S. dollar. However salaries and related expenses, which comprise a significant portion of our, and most of our group companies expenses as well as expenses related to the DIC Service Agreement (See "Item 7 – Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders") are denominated in NIS and the loans received from DIC, are denominated in NIS. The strengthening of the NIS against the U.S. dollar since late 2008 has harmed, and if it continues to strengthen, will harm our and our group companies' results of operations and cash resources. 18 Product liability claims could adversely affect the business results of our group companies, especially those operating in the medical device industry. Product liability is an inherent risk for our group companies operating in the medical device industry. A product liability claim, regardless of its merit or eventual outcome, could result in substantial costs to a group company and a substantial diversion of management attention. A product liability claim or any product recalls could also harm a group company's reputation and result in a decline in revenues. Substantial damages awards have been made in some jurisdictions against medical device companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. There can be no a ssurance that a future product liability claim or series of claims brought against our group companies would not have an adverse effect on their business or the results of operations, or that coverage limits of product liability insurance would be adequate. Product regulation may adversely affect the ability of our medical device group companies to bring new products to market or to continue to supply existing products to the market. Our medical device group companies are subject to strict government controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of products. They must obtain and maintain regulatory approval for their products from regulatory agencies before products may be sold in a particular jurisdiction. Each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements and delay or refuse to grant approval, even though a product has been approved in another country. Regulatory delays, the inability to successfully complete clinical trials, claims and concerns about safety and efficacy, new discoveries, patents and products of competitors and related patent disputes and claims about adverse side effects are only a few of the factors that could adversely affect the realization of product registration. Noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar regulatory actions which could limit product sales, delay or halt product shipment, delay new product clearance or approval, and adversely affect such group companies' results of operations. Because the medical device industry is litigious, our medical device group companies are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause our medical device group companies to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit them from selling their products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can d ivert management's attention from the company’s core business. 19 If our medical device group companies are unable to obtain reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using their products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing their products, demand for their products may be adversely affected. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for products produced by our medical device group companies, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing our medical device group companies' products or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers as compared with alternative procedures, our medical device group companies may be unable to generate sufficient sales to support their businesses. In addition, our medical device group companies could be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement amounts or availability for procedures in which their products are used. Changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of healthcare, could materially adversely the business of our medical device group companies. Recently, there have been, and there continue to be, numerous proposals to implement significant reforms to the healthcare system in the United States. Proposed legislation was introduced that will, among other things, reduce Medicare provider reimbursement rates, introduce and/or pilot various new patient care and payment models and base reimbursement policies and rates on clinical outcomes and the comparative effectiveness and costs of different treatment technologies and modalities. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict what healthcare initiatives and subsequent regulations, if any, will be implemented at the U.S. federal or state level, or the effect any future legislation or regulation will have on our medical device group companies. However, if significant changes are made to the healthcare system in the United States, those changes may lower reimbursements for products of our medical device group companies, reduce medical procedure volumes and increase operational and other costs, and could materially adversely affect the business and results of operations of our medical device group companies. Risks Affecting Our Holdings in Given Imaging The following risk factor sections have been condensed for the purposes of this Annual Report. The risks associated with Given Imaging are more fully described in documents filed by Given Imaging with the SEC. 20 The price of Given Imaging's shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including varying quarterly financial performance or its failure to meet its guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in its share price. Given Imaging's ordinary shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market in October 2001 and on the TASE in March 2004. In 2009, the closing price of its shares has ranged from $7.06 to $18.00 per share on the Nasdaq Global Market and NIS29.50 to NIS68.23 on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange. The price of Given Imaging's shares could fluctuate significantly for, among other things, the following reasons: macroeconomic or general market conditions, future announcements concerning Given Imaging or its competitors, the existence and outcome of litigation concerning its intellectual property assets, changes in third-party reimbursement practices, regulatory developments, and new clinical or economic data regarding its current or future products. In addition, it is Given Imaging's practice to provide guidance to the market as to its expected revenues and earnings per share based on information available to it at the time of the guidance. If Given Imaging's operating results do not meet its guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of Given Imaging's shares would likely decline. In addition, based on Given Imaging's experience to date, Given Imaging believes that many of its customers delay purchasing its products until the end of the fiscal quarter because they believe this will enable them to negotiate more favorable terms. Therefore, revenues from sales are concentrated at the end of each fiscal quarter making it difficult for Given Imaging to determine the success of each quarter until its end. This may result in lower than expected quarterly revenues if external or other events cause potential customers to defer their purchasing decisions even for a short period of time. Furthermore, Given Imaging believes that demand for its products may be materially affected by seasonal factors during the summer months when physicians and administrators are more likely to postpone purchasing decisions due to summer vacations and patients are more likely to postpone less urgent medical procedures until later in the year. Both of these factors may result in slower sales during the summer. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated by low trading volume and the concentration of owne rship of Given Imaging's ordinary shares and changes in trading practices in its ordinary shares, such as short sales. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their shares. Any securities litigation claims brought against Given Imaging could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from its business. If Given Imaging is unable to manufacture, market or sell the PillCam capsules, its revenues may decline significantly or it may not be able to maintain its expected annual growth rate. A substantial portion of Given Imaging's revenues and its annual revenue growth to date has resulted from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Given Imaging expects that a substantial majority of its revenues for the foreseeable future will continue to come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $110 million, or 78%, of its revenues in 2009, $103 million, or 82%, in 2008 and $90.6 million, or 80%, in 2007. In addition, Given Imaging expects sales of PillCam COLON and to a lesser extent, PillCam ESO, to increasingly contr ibute to its revenues in the future. If Given Imaging is unable to manufacture, market or sell the PillCam capsules, and the PillCam SB in particular, for any reason, including, for example, product recall, natural disaster, unavailability of components, war in Israel or as a result of a legal action against Given Imaging, Given Imaging's revenues may decline significantly or it may not be able to maintain its expected annual growth rate. If Given Imaging fails to increase utilization of its workstations and recurring orders of its PillCam SB capsule, it may not be able to achieve the growth rate it expects. Since sales of Given Imaging’s PillCam SB, capsule for detection of disorders of the small bowel accounts for a substantial majority of its revenues, the level of recurring orders of its PillCam SB capsule by Given Imaging's customers is an important factor in growing its revenues. Given Imaging is seeking to increase the level of recurring orders by a number of methods directed to increasing utilization of its PillCam capsules by physicians, including focused selling and marketing activities, frequent contact with customers, supporting reimbursement and product concerns, improving reimbursement coverage, generating supporting clinical evidence to expand indications and educating physicians regarding the clinical benefits of the PillCam SB capsule, increasing operating efficiencies of its system to the benefit of physicians and collaborating with strategic industry participants. Increasing the level of recurring orders by its customers is also important to attracting new customers to purchase and use the Given System. If Given Imaging is unable to increase the utilization of workstations and the level of recurring orders of its PillCam SB capsule, it may not be able to achieve the revenues necessary to maintain its growth rate. 21 Given Imaging's future growth depends in part on its ability to market the PillCam SB capsule for additional indications other than obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. The PillCam SB capsule has been cleared for marketing by the FDA for the visualization and detection of abnormalities of the small intestine. In recent years, sales of PillCam SB capsules have accounted for the significant majority of Given Imaging's revenues. To date, the PillCam SB capsule has been used primarily for diagnosis of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, or OGIB. Given Imaging's ability to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule for the diagnosis of additional small bowel indications, such as Crohn's disease, depends substantially on its ability to provide clinical evide nce and economic analysis supporting such expanded use, its ability to educate and train its customers on these expanded use opportunities and its ability to obtain favorable and effective reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule for small bowel indications beyond OGIB. If Given Imaging is unable to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule beyond OGIB, sales of the PillCam SB capsule may decline or not increase as it expects. If Given Imaging is unable to expand the market for the PillCam ESO capsule and obtain adequate third-party reimbursement for the esophageal capsule endoscopy procedure, sales of the PillCam ESO capsule may not grow as it expects or at all. Given Imaging's ability to market and sell its PillCam ESO capsule depends significantly on its ability to expand the use of the PillCam ESO capsule. To date, PillCam ESO has been used primarily to visualize esophageal varices, a condition prevalent in patients suffering from cirrhosis, a chronic liver disease. However, due to the limited prevalence of esophageal varices in the general population, Given Imaging believes the market opportunity for the use of the PillCam ESO capsule in the detection of varic es is limited. Given Imaging believes that the primary market opportunity for its PillCam ESO capsule may be in the detection of Gastro-Esophageal Reflux Disease, or GERD, which is more prevalent in the general population than varices. However, in order to successfully market and sell the PillCam ESO capsule in the detection of GERD, Given Imaging must first develop a commercial plan, establish the cost effectiveness of using PillCam ESO for GERD, generate and present clinical data supporting this use and, subsequently, to obtain adequate reimbursement coverage. Given Imaging's ability to expand the use of the PillCam ESO capsule depends substantially on its ability to convince additional third party payers to provide reimbursement coverage for this capsule for the varices indication, the adequacy of such coverage and its ability to generate and present clinical data supporting reimbursement for the GERD indication. If Given Imaging is unable to do so, sales of the PillCam ESO capsule may not grow as it expe cts or at all. If Given Imaging's estimates regarding the Bravo pH monitoring business are materially incorrect, Given Imaging may not be able to grow its revenues and profitability as its expects. In December 2008, Given Imaging acquired the Bravo pH monitoring business from Medtronic, Inc., or Medtronic. In 2009, the Bravo pH monitoring business contributed significantly to Given Imaging's revenue growth in the United States. Given Imaging expects that future growth in the United States will continue to depend, in part, on its ability to grow the Bravo pH monitoring business. Since Given Imaging is new to the field of pH monitoring and have limited operating history with the Bravo product, its growth estimates may be materially incorrect. As a resul t, the Bravo pH monitoring business may not positively impact Given Imaging's financial results or grow as it expects. 22 If Given Imaging is unable to handle the manufacturing and operations of the Bravo pH monitoring business successfully, Given Imaging's revenues may not grow as it expects, its gross margins may suffer and it may lose market share to its competitors in the pH monitoring market. During 2009, in connection with Given Imaging's acquisition of the Bravo pH monitoring business from Medtronic, Given Imaging transferred the manufacturing line of the Bravo capsules and delivery system to Israel and integrated the Bravo pH monitoring business into its company. During this transition period, Given Imaging was dependent significantly on Medtronic to ensure uninterrupted supply of the Bravo system and Given Imaging has limited independen t operating history with this product. If Given Imaging is unable to conduct manufacturing and operational activities successfully on its own, Given Imaging's revenues may not grow as a result of this acquisition as it expects, its gross margins and expected profitability may suffer or it may lose market share to its competitors in the pH monitoring market. If Given Imaging is unable to market and sell its PillCam COLON capsule, particularly in the United States, it may miss a significant market opportunity and may not grow as it expects. In February 2008, the FDA determined that, based on then available clinical data, the first generation PillCam COLON was not substantially equivalent to any marketed device in the United States for visualization of the colon and, therefore could not be cleared for marketing in the United States, Given Imaging's biggest market, through the relatively quick 510(k) process. There can be no assurance that Given Imaging will be able to receive FDA clearance for this capsule in the foreseeable future or at all or that the PillCam COLON will be accepted as comparable or su perior to existing technologies for visualization of the colon. Given Imaging’s ability to market and sell the PillCam COLON successfully, depends on one or more of the following: ● Given Imaging's ability to develop and introduce new technologies that will improve the clinical effectiveness of the PillCam COLON capsule; ● Receipt of FDA marketing clearance in the United States. Given Imaging cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, Given Imaging will be required to demonstrate that the PillCam COLON is safe and effective for its intended purpose; ● The existence of clinical data sufficient to support the use of the PillCam COLON for visualization or screening of the colon as compared with other diagnostic modalities: If clinical trials indicate that PillCam COLON is not as clinically-effective as other current methods, or if the PillCam COLON procedure causes unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, Given Imaging may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell this capsule or physicians may be reluctant to use it; 23 ● The availability of sufficient clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the American Medical Association, or AMA, to provide a favorable permanent "current procedural terminology", or CPT, code and for private third-party payors to make an adequate reimbursement decision to provide coverage for the PillCam COLON procedure; ● The availability of a reliable colon cleansing and preparation procedure for the PillCam COLON capsule, which is accepted by physicians and patients; and/or ● The absence of other safe and effective colon cancer screening products, which, if brought to market by third parties, may make the PillCam COLON capsule obsolete. If Given Imaging is unable to achieve one or more of the above, it may not be able to market and sell the PillCam COLON capsule or the demand for the PillCam COLON may be lower than expected and sales of PillCam COLON may not contribute to its growth at the rate Given Imaging expects or at all. Given Imaging may lose market share and its revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected due to increasing competitive pressure from other capsule endoscopy manufacturers. Olympus Corporation has a competing capsule endoscopy system for the small bowel, which it is selling in the United States, Europe, Japan and other countries. In addition, other companies in Korea and China began selling capsule endoscopy systems for the small bowel in Europe, Asia and Australia and possibly other countries and may be selling these systems at a lower price than Given Imaging's price. If Given Imaging is unable to compete effectively in the marketplace against these competing systems, Given Imaging may lose market share, experience delays in c ompleting sales as a result of a longer decision making process among potential customers, or experience erosion of its gross margins as a result of growing price pressure. Given Imaging faces competition from large, well-established manufacturers of traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders, as well as from gastrointestinal products in general that compete for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Competition for the Given System also comes from traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders and diseases, such as traditional endoscopy and radiological imaging. The principal manufacturers of gastrointestinal endoscopes are Olympus, Hoya and Fuji Film. The principal manufacturers of equipment for radiological imaging are General Electric Healthcare Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions, a division of Siemens AG, Philips Medical Systems Ltd. and Toshiba Corporatio n. These companies have substantially greater financial resources than does Given Imaging, and they have established reputations as well as worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to physicians. If Given Imaging is unable to convince physicians to adopt its capsule endoscopy products over the current technologies marketed, its results of operation may suffer. In addition to competition from products performing similar clinical functions to the Given System, there is also competition for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Another capital equipment item for gastroenterology may compete with Given Imaging’s system for the same capital budget, which is typically limited, and therefore the potential purchaser may be required to choose between the two items of capital equipment. If Given Imaging is unable to market the Given System more effectively than other products which could be purchased using the same budget as the Given System, Given Imaging may be unable to maintain its current growth rate. 24 If Given Imaging is unable to introduce new capsules and products for use in the gastrointestinal tract, its growth may be negatively affected. Given Imaging's objective is to expand the use of the Given System as a platform to be used with a variety of products and indications. Given Imaging intends to add to its current PillCam capsules by developing and introducing new capsules and products. There can be no assurance that Given Imaging will be able to develop new products that will enjoy widespread market acceptance as superior to existing technologies for detection of abnormalities in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or that can be used in other part s of the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, Given Imaging may be required to obtain FDA clearance in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before commercially distributing the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract. These regulatory processes can be lengthy and expensive, and Given Imaging cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and in order to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of new products, Given Imaging may be required to conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the diagnostic and cost-effectiveness of these new products. If future clinical trials indicate that new products are not as clinically-effective or as cost-effective as current methods, or that they may cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, Gi ven Imaging may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell these new products or obtain reimbursement coverage, and its growth would be adversely affected. Any disruption in the United States, the primary market for Given Imaging's products, may result in a material reduction in Given Imaging’s revenues and negatively affect its results of operations. Most of Given Imaging’s revenues since its inception have been generated from sales in the United States. Sales in the United States accounted for $89.7 million, or 63%, of its revenues in 2009, $75.6 million or 60%, of Given Imaging's revenues in 2008 and $73.8 million or 65% of its revenues in 2007 and. Any disruption to Given Imaging's market in the United States resulting from changes in management or the sales team of Given Imaging's U.S. subsidiary (Given Imaging, Inc.), adverse changes in reimbursement policies, new regulatory require ments, macro-economic changes and other events, many of which are outside Given Imaging's control, may result in a material reduction in its revenues and negatively affect its operating results. If Given Imaging is unable to successfully market and sell its products in Japan, one of Given Imaging's significant potential growth opportunities may be materially and adversely affected. Given Imaging sells its capsule products in Japan through Suzuken Co. Ltd., or Suzuken, a large Japanese pharmaceutical wholesaler which also owns 7% of Given Imaging's Japanese subsidiary, and through Fuji Medical Co. Ltd., or Fuji Medical, an affiliate of Fuji Film Corporation. Given Imaging's ability to increase penetration into the Japanese market and grow its business depends signi ficantly on the success of its distributors and its ability to manage two non-exclusive distributors in the same territory. See "