RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive, and investors are encouraged to perform their own investigation with respect to the Company and its business. Investors should also read the other information in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes. Worldwide and in the United States, economic recession continues to have a negative effect on demand for and the price of oil and natural gas. Continuing effects of the economic recession could lead to: (1) a decline of oil and natural gas reserves due to curtailed drilling activity; (2) risk of insolvency of well operators and oil and natural gas purchasers; (3) limited availability of certain insurance contracts; and (4) limited access to derivative instruments. A decline in reserves would lead to a decline in production and would have a negative impact on profitability and Company value. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect results and the price of the Company’s common stock. This volatility also makes valuation of oil and natural gas producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been and will continue to be volatile. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to a number of factors, including: • worldwide economic conditions; • economic, political and regulatory developments; (5) Table of Contents • market uncertainty; • relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; • availability and capacity of necessary transportation and processing facilities; • commodity futures trading; • weather conditions; • import prices; • political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially the Middle East and West Africa; • actions taken by OPEC; and • competition from alternative sources of energy. In recent years, oil and natural gas price volatility has become increasingly severe. Price volatility makes it difficult to budget and project the return on exploration and development projects and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that are owned or acquired. In addition, volatile prices often disrupt the market for oil and natural gas properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties. Results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things, variations in oil and natural gas prices and production performance. A substantial decline in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period of time would have a material adverse effect on the Company. A substantial decline in oil and natural gas prices for an extended period of time would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, access to capital and the quantities of oil and natural gas that may be economically produced. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would have a material negative effect in several ways, including: • cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures employed to replace reserves or increase production; • certain reserves may no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flow; and • access to sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. We cannot control activities on properties we do not operate. The Company does not operate any of the properties in which it has an interest and has very limited ability to exercise influence over operations of these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and the limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially and adversely affect the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and targeted production growth rates. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants for drilling wells and utilization of appropriate technology. The Company’s derivative activities may reduce the cash flow received for oil and natural gas sales. In order to manage exposure to price volatility in our natural gas, we enter into natural gas derivative contracts for a portion of our expected production. Commodity price derivatives may limit the cash flow we actually realize and therefore reduce revenues in the future. The fair value of our natural gas derivative instruments outstanding as of September 30, 2010 was an asset of $1,620,326. (6) Table of Contents Lower oil and natural gas prices may cause impairment charges. The Company has elected to utilize the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and natural gas exploration and development activities. Exploration expenses, including geological and geophysical costs, rentals and exploratory dry holes, are charged against income as incurred. Costs of successful wells and related production equipment and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized by property using the unit-of-production method as oil and natural gas is produced. All long-lived assets, principally the Company’s oil and natural gas properties, are monitored for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may be greater than its future net cash flows. The need to test a property for impairment may result from significant declines in sales prices or unfavorable adjustments to oil and natural gas reserves. Once assets are classified as held for sale, they are reviewed for impairment. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, the Company cannot predict when or if future impairment charges will be recorded. If an impairment charge is recognized, cash flow from operating activities is not impacted but net income and, consequently, shareholders’ equity, are reduced. Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels, and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our Independent Consulting Petroleum Engineering Firm make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to the level of oil and natural gas prices, future production levels, capital expenditures, operating and development costs, the effects of regulation and availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves (the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties), the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. Our standardized measure is calculated using the 12- month average price calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day- of-the-month oil and natural gas price for each month within the 12- month period prior to September 30, 2010, held flat over the life of the properties and costs in effect as of the date of estimation, less future development, production and income tax expenses, and is discounted at ten percent per annum to reflect the timing of future net revenue in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual development and production. The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. Further, our lack of knowledge of all individual well information known to the well operators such as incomplete well stimulation efforts, restricted production rates for various reasons and up to date well production data, etc. may cause differences in our reserve estimates. Because forward-looking prices and costs are not used to estimate discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves, the standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. (7) Table of Contents The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the ten percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) statement on oil and natural gas producing activities disclosures may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company, or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Failure to find or acquire additional reserves will cause reserves and production to decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. The Company’s proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced except to the extent that the Company acquires additional properties containing proved reserves, conducts additional successful exploration and development drilling, successfully applies new technologies or identifies additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. Future oil and natural gas production is therefore highly dependent upon the level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. The above activities are conducted with well operators, as the Company does not operate any of its wells. Drilling for oil and natural gas invariably involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve a targeted rate of return. The Company relies on the operators’ seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying prospects and in conducting exploration and development activities. The seismic data and other technologies used do not allow operators to know conclusively prior to drilling a well whether oil or natural gas is present and may be commercially produced. Cost factors can adversely affect the economics of any project, and ultimately the cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is controlled by well operators and existing market conditions. Further drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements, the cost and availability of drilling rigs, equipment and services and potentially the expected sales price to be received for oil or natural gas produced from the wells. Reserve estimates for September 30, 2010, calculated under the new SEC reporting rules, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting Requirements, are not directly comparable to reserve estimates made in prior years. This report presents reserve estimates prepared using the new SEC reporting rules, Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting Requirements, which are different in a number of respects from rules used for reserve estimates made in prior years. The changes include: (1) permitting use of new technologies to determine proved reserves, if those technologies have been demonstrated empirically to lead to reliable conclusions about reserve volumes; (2) enabling companies to additionally disclose their probable and possible reserves to investors, in addition to their proved reserves; (3) allowing previously excluded resources, such as oil sands, to be classified as oil and natural gas reserves rather than mining reserves; (4) requiring companies to report the independence and qualifications of a preparer or auditor, based on current Society of Petroleum Engineers criteria; (5) requiring the filing of reports for companies that rely on a third party to prepare reserve estimates or conduct a reserve audit; and (6) requiring companies to report oil and natural gas reserves using an average price based upon the prior 12-month period, rather (8) Table of Contents than year-end prices. The result is reserve estimates beginning with the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 will not be directly comparable to estimated reserves reported in previous fiscal years. Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve various risks. The Company is subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failures, fires, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. The Company maintains insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from well operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts believed by management to be prudent. However, this insurance does not protect it against all operational risks. For example, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance. Additionally, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant uninsured costs that could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s financial results. Future legislative or regulatory changes may result in increased costs and decreased revenues, cash flows and liquidity. Companies which operate wells in which Panhandle owns a working interest are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation. Panhandle, as a working interest owner, is therefore indirectly subject to the same regulations. New or changed laws and regulations such as those described below could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal Income Taxation Proposals to repeal the expensing of intangible drilling costs, repeal the percentage depletion allowance and increase the amortization period of geological and geophysical expenses, if enacted, would increase and accelerate the Company’s payment of federal income taxes. As a result, these changes would decrease the Company’s cash flows available for developing its oil and natural gas properties. Hydraulic Fracturing The vast majority of oil and natural gas wells drilled in recent years, and future wells expected to be drilled, in which the Company owns an interest were, or are expected to be, hydraulically fractured as a part of the process of completing the wells and putting them on production. Some members of Congress have proposed legislation to either ban or further regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. We cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted or, if enacted, what its provisions would be. If legislation is passed to ban hydraulic fracturing, the number of wells drilled in the future may drop dramatically, and the economic performance of those drilled will be negatively affected. Legislation imposing further regulation of hydraulic fracturing may result in increased costs to drill, complete and operate wells, as well as delays in obtaining permits to drill wells. Climate Change The EPA has proposed regulations for the purpose of restricting greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources. Also, the U.S. Congress has considered legislation that would establish a cap-and-trade program in order to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane. Such regulatory and legislative proposals to restrict greenhouse gas emissions, or to generally address climate change, could increase the Company’s operating costs as operators of wells, in which the Company owns a working interest, incur costs to comply with new rules. The increase in costs to the (9) Table of Contents well operators, and ultimately the Company, as a working interest owner, could include new or increased costs to install new emissions control equipment, operate and maintain existing equipment, obtain allowances to authorize greenhouse gas emissions and pay greenhouse gas related taxes. There also could be an adverse effect on demand for oil and natural gas in the market place. Shortages of oil field equipment, services, qualified personnel and resulting cost increases could adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. There have also been shortages of drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing equipment and personnel and other oilfield equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. These shortages or price increases could adversely affect the Company’s profit margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict its ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and most of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. We compete in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas acquisition, development, exploration and production. We face intense competition from both major and independent oil and natural gas companies in seeking to acquire desirable producing properties, seeking new properties for future exploration and seeking the human resource expertise necessary to effectively develop properties. We also face similar competition in obtaining sufficient capital to maintain drilling rights in all drilling units. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil and natural gas companies. These companies are able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and are able to define, evaluate, bid for, purchase and subsequently drill a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit, effectively reducing our right to participate in drilling on certain of our acreage as a working interest owner. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional quality properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully evaluate, select and acquire suitable properties and join in drilling with reputable operators in this highly competitive environment. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 