RISK FACTORS Economic conditions worldwide and in the United States have declined in recent months having a negative effect on demand for and the price of oil and natural gas, drilling activity to explore for new reserves and availability of capital through either debt or equity markets. Further negative effects of the current economic downturn could be decline of reserves due to curtailed drilling activity, the risk of insolvency of well operators and oil and natural gas purchasers, limited availability of certain insurance contracts and limited access to hedging instruments. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating the Company’s business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and investors are encouraged to perform their own investigation with respect to the Company and its business. Investors should also read the other information in this Form 10-K, including the financial statements and related notes. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. Volatility in oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect results and the price of the Company’s common stock. This volatility also makes valuation of oil and natural gas producing properties difficult and can disrupt markets. Oil and natural gas prices have historically been, and will likely continue to be, volatile. The prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to a number of factors, including: • worldwide economic conditions; • economic, political and regulatory developments; • market uncertainty; • relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas; weather conditions; • import prices; • political conditions in major oil producing regions, especially the Middle East and West Africa; (5) Table of Contents • actions taken by OPEC; and • competition from alternative sources of energy. In recent years and months, oil and natural gas price volatility has become increasingly severe. Price volatility makes it difficult to budget and project the return on exploration and development projects and to estimate with precision the value of producing properties that are owned or acquired. In addition, unusually volatile prices often disrupt the market for oil and natural gas properties, as buyers and sellers have more difficulty agreeing on the purchase price of properties. Quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly as a result of, among other things, variations in oil and natural gas prices and production performance. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices would have a material adverse effect on the Company. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations, access to capital and the quantities of oil and natural gas that may be economically produced. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would have a negative effect in several ways, including: • cash flow would be reduced, decreasing funds available for capital expenditures employed to replace reserves or increase production; • certain reserves may no longer be economic to produce, leading to both lower proved reserves and cash flow; and • access to sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. The Company’s hedging activities may reduce the realized prices received for oil and natural gas sales. In order to manage exposure to price volatility in our natural gas, we enter into natural gas price risk management arrangements (costless collars) for a portion of our expected production. Commodity price hedging may limit the prices we actually realize and therefore reduce oil and natural gas revenues in the future. The fair value of our natural gas derivative instruments outstanding as of September 30, 2008 was an asset of $646,193. Lower oil and natural gas prices may cause impairment charges. The Company has elected to utilize the successful efforts method of accounting for its oil and gas exploration and development activities. Exploration expenses, including geological and geophysical costs, rentals and exploratory dry holes, are charged against income as incurred. Costs of successful wells and related production equipment and development dry holes are capitalized and amortized by property using the unit-of-production method as oil and gas is produced. All long-lived assets, principally the Company’s oil and gas properties, are monitored for potential impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may be greater than its future net cash flows. The need to test a property for impairment may result from significant declines in sales prices or unfavorable adjustments to oil and gas reserves. Any assets held for sale are reviewed for impairment when the Company approves the plan to sell. Because of the uncertainty inherent in these factors, the Company cannot predict when or if future impairment charges will be recorded. If an impairment charge is recognized, cash flow from operating activities is not impacted but net income and, consequently, shareholders’ equity, are reduced. (6) Table of Contents Our estimated proved reserves are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. It is not possible to measure underground accumulations of oil or natural gas in an exact way. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering requires subjective estimates of underground accumulations of oil and natural gas and assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices, future production levels, and operating and development costs. In estimating our level of oil and natural gas reserves, we and our consulting petroleum engineering firm make certain assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, including assumptions relating to the level of oil and natural gas prices, future production levels, capital expenditures, operating and development costs, the effects of regulation and availability of funds. If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of oil and natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and our estimates of the future net cash flows from our reserves could change significantly. Our standardized measure is calculated using prices and costs in effect as of the date of estimation, less future development, production and income tax expenses, and discounted at ten percent per annum to reflect the timing of future net revenue in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. Over time, we may make material changes to reserve estimates to take into account changes in our assumptions and the results of actual development and production. The reserve estimates we make for fields that do not have a lengthy production history are less reliable than estimates for fields with lengthy production histories. A lack of production history may contribute to inaccuracy in our estimates of proved reserves, future production rates and the timing of development expenditures. The standardized measure of our estimated proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated proved oil and natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our estimated proved reserves on prices and costs in effect on the day of estimate. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the ten percent discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows in compliance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 69, “Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities”, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the oil and natural gas industry in general. Failure to find or acquire additional reserves will cause reserves and production to decline materially from their current levels. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted. The Company’s proved reserves will decline materially as reserves are produced except to the extent that the Company acquires additional properties containing proved reserves, conducts successful exploration and development drilling, successfully applies new technologies or identifies additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves. Future oil and natural gas production is therefore highly dependent upon the level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves. The above activities are conducted with well operators, as the Company does not operate any of its wells. (7) Table of Contents Drilling for oil and natural gas invariably involves unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. In addition, wells that are profitable may not achieve a targeted rate of return. The Company relies on the operators’ seismic data and other advanced technologies in identifying prospects and in conducting exploration activities. The seismic data and other technologies used do not allow operators to know conclusively prior to drilling a well whether oil or natural gas is present or may be produced economically. The ultimate cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is controlled by well operators and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of any project. Further drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions, environmental and other governmental requirements, the cost and availability of drilling rigs, equipment and services and potentially the expected sales price to be received for oil or gas produced from the wells. Oil and natural gas drilling and producing operations involve various risks. The Company is subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of oil and natural gas properties and the drilling of oil and natural gas wells, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failures, fires, abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. The Company maintains insurance against many potential losses or liabilities arising from well operations in accordance with customary industry practices and in amounts believed by management to be prudent. However, this insurance does not protect it against all operational risks. For example, the Company does not maintain business interruption insurance. Additionally, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. These risks could give rise to significant uninsured costs that could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s financial results. We cannot control activities on properties we do not operate. The Company does not operate any of the properties in which it has an interest and has very limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and the limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially and adversely affect the realization of targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities and targeted production growth rates. The success and timing of drilling, development and exploitation activities on properties operated by others depend on a number of factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including the operator’s expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants for drilling wells and utilization of technology. Shortages of oil field equipment, services, qualified personnel and resulting cost increases could adversely affect results of operations. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other professionals in the oil and natural gas industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with oil and natural gas prices, causing periodic shortages. There have also been shortages of drilling rigs and other equipment, as demand for rigs and equipment increased along with the number of wells being drilled. These factors also cause significant increases in costs for equipment, services and personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling rigs, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. These shortages or price increases could adversely affect the Company’s profit (8) Table of Contents margin, cash flow and operating results, or restrict its ability to drill wells and conduct ordinary operations. Competition in the oil and natural gas industry is intense, and most of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. We compete in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas acquisition, development, exploration and production. We face intense competition from both major and other independent oil and natural gas companies in each of the following areas: • seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new properties for future exploration; and • seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise necessary to develop and operate properties. Many of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than ours, and some of them are fully integrated oil companies. These companies are able to pay more for development prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Our ability to develop and exploit our oil and natural gas properties and to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to successfully join in drilling with operators, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 