Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In this section we describe a number of risks related to our business. The risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this report are not the only ones to which we are exposed. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known and/or risks we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the developments included in the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The cyclical nature of our business causes fluctuations in our operating results. The machine tool industry is highly cyclical and changes in demand can occur abruptly in the geographic markets we serve. As a result of this cyclicality, we have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, significant fluctuations in our sales, which will affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations pose additional risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. During the fiscal year ended October 31, 2007, more than two-thirds of our revenues were derived from sales to customers located outside the United States. We also have manufacturing facilities and assets located outside of the United States. These international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · trade barriers · regional economic uncertainty · differing labor regulation · risk of governmental expropriation · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs · current and changing regulatory environments affecting the importation and exportation of products and raw materials · difficulty in obtaining distribution support · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations · differences in the availability and terms of financing · political instability and unrest · risks of changes in taxes · tax implications from repatriation of funds 9 Quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers could require us to change manufacturing sources, reduce prices, increase spending on marketing or product development, withdraw from or not enter certain markets or otherwise take actions that could be adverse to us. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. These factors may adversely affect our future operating results. All of our products are shipped from our manufacturing facility in Taiwan from the Port of Taichung to three ports of destination: Los Angeles, California, Venlo, Netherlands, and Singapore. Changes in customs requirements, as a result of national security or other constraints put upon these ports, may also have an adverse impact on our future operating results. We depend on limited sources for our products. Our wholly owned subsidiary in Taiwan, Hurco Manufacturing Ltd. (HML), produces over 98% of our machine tools. Any interruption in manufacturing at HML would have an adverse effect on our financial operating results. Interruption in manufacturing at HML could result from a change in the political environment or a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, typhoon, or tsunami. Any interruption with our contract manufacturer or one of our key component suppliers may also have an adverse effect on our operating results and our financial condition. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and any of several foreign currencies could increase our costs or decrease our revenue. Our international sales divisions generate more than two-thirds of our revenues, which are received in several foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and Pound Sterling. Therefore, our results of operations and financial condition are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. Dollar, both for purposes of actual conversion and financial reporting purposes. In addition, payments for components incorporated into our products are made in the New Taiwan Dollar. We hedge our foreign currency exposure with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. Hedge contracts only mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related hedge contract period. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of translation of foreign currencies and hedging on the consolidated financial statements. Our competitive position and prospects for growth may be diminished if we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis that are accepted in the market. The machine tool industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements, and improvements in and expansion of product offerings. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards, customer requirements and product offerings by competitors, and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis that are accepted in the market, will be significant factors in maintaining or improving our competitive position and growth prospects. If the technologies or standards used in our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our business would be materially adversely affected. Although we believe that we have the technological capabilities to remain competitive, developments by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We compete with larger companies that have greater financial resources, and our business could be harmed by competitors’ actions. The markets in which our products are sold are extremely competitive and highly fragmented. In marketing our products, we compete with other manufacturers in terms of quality, reliability, price, value, delivery time, service and technological characteristics. We compete with a number of U.S., European and Asian competitors, most of which are larger, have substantially greater financial resources, and are supported by governmental or financial institution subsidies. While we believe our product lines compete effectively, our financial resources are limited compared to those of most of our competitors’, making it challenging to remain competitive. 10 Fluctuation of the price of raw materials, especially steel and iron, could adversely affect our sales, costs and profitability. We manufacture products with a high iron and steel content for which worldwide prices have increased significantly. The availability and price for these and other raw materials are subject to volatility due to worldwide supply and demand forces, speculative actions, inventory levels, exchange rates, production costs, and anticipated or perceived shortages. In some cases, those cost increases can be passed on to customers in the form of price increases; in other cases they cannot. If the prices of raw materials increase and we are not able to charge our customers higher prices to compensate, it would adversely affect our results of operations. Due to future changes in technology, changes in market demand, or changes in market expectations, portions of our inventory may become obsolete or excess. The technology within our products changes and generally new versions of machines are brought to market in three to five year cycles. The phasing out of an old product involves estimating the amount of inventory to hold to satisfy the final demand for those machines and to satisfy future repair part needs. Based on changing customer demand and expectations of delivery times for repair parts, we may find that we have either obsolete or excess inventory on hand. Because of unforeseen future changes in technology, market demand, or competition, we might have to write off unusable inventory, which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We may seek to expand our product offerings or the markets we serve by acquiring other companies, product lines, technologies, and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: · difficulties integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies · diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business · potential difficulties completing projects associated with in-process research and development · difficulties entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, especially when competitors in such markets have stronger market positions · initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners · insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies Acquisitions may also cause us to: · issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership · assume liabilities · record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges · incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets · incur large and immediate write-offs, and restructuring and other related expenses · become subject to litigation Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky. No assurance can be given that our acquisitions will be successful. Further, no assurance can be given that acquisitions will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely manner or that pre-acquisition due diligence will identify all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. 11 Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. For additional information, please see the risk factor above entitled, “Due to future changes in technology, changes in market demand, or changes in market expectations, portions of our inventory may become obsolete or excess.” Intangible or other assets may become impaired requiring us to record a significant charge to earnings. Under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, we review our assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Intangible assets and our investment accounted for under the equity method are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements for the period in which any impairment of these assets is determined. This may adversely affect our results of operations. To date we have not taken a significant charge for an impairment of assets. Our continued success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements, other contractual arrangements, trade secret law, trademark and patent law, to protect our intellectual property. However these measures may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce our intellectual property rights through infringement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unplanned loss of current members of our senior management team and other key personnel may adversely affect our operating results. The unexpected loss of senior management or other key personnel could impair our ability to carry out our business plan. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. The loss of senior management or other key personnel may adversely affect our operating results as we incur costs to replace the departed personnel and potentially lose opportunities in the transition of important job functions. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 Item 