Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In this section we describe what we believe to be the material risks related to our business. The risks and uncertainties described below or elsewhere in this report are not the only ones to which we are exposed. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known and/or risks we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the developments included in the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. The recent global recession has adversely affected overall demand and our customers’ ability to purchase our products and services. The recent global recession and the overall decline in economic activity reduced our sales substantially from pre-recession levels. In addition, banks and other lenders limited the ability of many businesses, including our customers, to access the credit markets. For additional information regarding recent economic conditions and their impact on our results of operations and financial condition, refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Although we have seen potential signs of economic recovery and are currently experiencing substantial increases in revenues and new orders, there can be no assurance that there will be a sustained recovery or that our performance will return to pre-recession levels. The cyclical nature of our business causes fluctuations in our operating results. The machine tool industry is highly cyclical and changes in demand can occur abruptly in the geographic markets we serve. As a result of this cyclicality, we have experienced significant fluctuations in our sales, which, in periods of reduced demand, have adversely affected our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations pose additional risks that may adversely impact sales and earnings. During fiscal 2010, more than 70% of our revenues were derived from sales to customers located outside the United States. In addition, our manufacturing facilities are located outside of the United States. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · trade barriers · regional economic uncertainty · differing labor regulation · governmental expropriation · domestic and foreign customs and tariffs · current and changing regulatory environments affecting the importation and exportation of products and raw materials · difficulty in obtaining distribution support · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations 8 · differences in the availability and terms of financing · political instability and unrest · changes in tax regulations and rates in foreign countries Quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers could require us to change manufacturing sources, reduce prices, increase spending on marketing or product development, withdraw from or not enter certain markets or otherwise take actions that could be adverse to us. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, we may be subject to laws limiting the right and ability of entities organized or operating therein to pay dividends or remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. These factors may adversely affect our future operating results. The vast majority of our products are shipped from our manufacturing facility in Taiwan from the Port of Taichung to three ports of destination: Los Angeles, California, Venlo, the Netherlands, and Singapore. Changes in customs requirements, as a result of national security or other constraints put upon these ports, may also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We depend on limited sources for our products. Our wholly owned subsidiary in Taiwan, Hurco Manufacturing Ltd. (HML), produces the vast majority of our machine tools. An unplanned interruption in manufacturing at HML would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Such an interruption could result from a change in the political environment in Taiwan or a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, typhoon, or tsunami. Any interruption in service by one of our key component suppliers, if prolonged, also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and any of several foreign currencies can increase our costs and decrease our revenues. Our foreign sales generate more than 70% of our revenues, which are invoiced and received in several foreign currencies, primarily the Euro and Pound Sterling. Therefore, our results of operations and financial condition are affected by fluctuations in exchange rates between these currencies and the U.S. Dollar, both for purposes of actual conversion and for financial reporting purposes. In addition, we are exposed to exchange risk associated with our purchases of materials and components for our Taiwan manufacturing operations, which are primarily made in the New Taiwan Dollar. We hedge our foreign currency exposure with the purchase of forward exchange contracts. These hedge contracts only mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency rates that occur during the term of the related contract period and carry risks of counter-party failure. There can be no assurance that our hedges will have the intended effects. Refer to Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of translation of foreign currencies and hedging on our consolidated financial statements. Our competitive position and prospects for growth may be diminished if we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis that are accepted in the market. The machine tool industry is subject to technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer requirements, and improvements in and expansion of product offerings. Our ability to anticipate changes in technology, industry standards, customers’ requirements and competitors’ product offerings and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis that are accepted in the market, are significant factors in maintaining and improving our competitive position and growth prospects. If the technologies or standards used in our products become obsolete or fail to gain widespread commercial acceptance, our business would be materially adversely affected. Although we believe that we have the technological capabilities to remain competitive, developments by others may render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. 9 We compete with larger companies that have greater financial resources, and our business could be harmed by competitors’ actions. The markets in which our products are sold are extremely competitive and highly fragmented. In marketing our products, we compete with other manufacturers in terms of quality, reliability, price, value, delivery time, service and technological characteristics. We compete with a number of U.S., European and Asian competitors, most of which are larger, have substantially greater financial resources and are supported by governmental or financial institution subsidies and therefore may have competitive advantages over us. While we believe our product lines compete effectively, our financial resources are limited compared to those of most of our competitors, making it challenging to remain competitive. Fluctuations in the price of raw materials, especially steel and iron, could adversely affect our sales, costs and profitability. We manufacture products with a high iron and steel content for which worldwide prices have been increasing. The availability and price for these and other raw materials are subject to volatility due to worldwide supply and demand forces, speculative actions, inventory levels, exchange rates, production costs and anticipated or perceived shortages. In some cases, those cost increases can be passed on to customers in the form of price increases; in other cases they cannot. If the prices of raw materials increase and we are not able to charge our customers higher prices to compensate, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Due to future changes in technology, changes in market demand, or changes in market expectations, portions of our inventory may become obsolete or excess. The technology within our products changes and generally new versions of machines are brought to market, in three-year to five-year cycles. The phasing out of an old product involves estimating the amount of inventory to hold to satisfy the final demand for those machines and to satisfy future repair part needs. Based on changing customer demand and expectations of delivery times for repair parts, we may find that we have either obsolete or excess inventory on hand. Because of unforeseen future changes in technology, market demand or competition, we might have to write off unusable inventory, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We may make acquisitions that could disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. Although we have no current plans for any material acquisitions, we may seek to expand our product offerings or the markets we serve by acquiring other companies, product lines, technologies and personnel. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: · difficulties integrating the operations, technologies, products, and personnel of the acquired companies · diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business · potential difficulties completing projects associated with in-process research and development · difficulties entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, especially when competitors in such markets have stronger market positions · initial dependence on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively small supply partners · insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions · the potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies Acquisitions may also cause us to: · issue common stock that would dilute our current shareholders’ percentage ownership · assume liabilities · record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges 10 · incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets · incur large and immediate write-offs, and restructuring and other related expenses · become subject to litigation Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky. No assurance can be given that our acquisitions will be successful. Further, no assurance can be given that acquisitions will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a timely manner or that pre-acquisition due diligence will identify all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products. Risks related to new product development also apply to acquisitions. For additional information, please see the risk factor above entitled, “Due to future changes in technology, changes in market demand, or changes in market expectations, portions of our inventory may become obsolete or excess.” Assets may become impaired, requiring us to record a significant charge to earnings. We review our assets for indications of impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements for the period in which any impairment of these assets is determined, which would adversely affect our results of operations for that period. The Company may experience negative or unforeseen tax consequences. The Company may experience negative or unforeseen tax consequences. The Company reviews the probability of the realization of our net deferred tax assets each period based on forecasts of taxable income in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. This review uses historical results, projected future operating results based upon approved business plans, eligible carryforward periods, tax-planning opportunities and other relevant considerations. Adverse changes in the profitability and financial outlook in the U.S. or foreign jurisdictions may require the creation of a valuation allowance to reduce our net deferred tax assets. Such changes could result in material non-cash expenses in the period in which the changes are made and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. Our continued success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely principally on nondisclosure agreements, other contractual arrangements, trade secret law, trademark registration and patents to protect our intellectual property. However, these measures may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property from infringement by others or prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do U.S. laws. Our inability to protect our proprietary information and enforce our intellectual property rights through infringement proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The unplanned loss of current members of our senior management team and other key personnel may adversely affect our operating results. The unexpected loss of senior management or other key personnel could impair our ability to carry out our business plan. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. The loss of senior management or other key personnel may adversely affect our operating results as we incur costs to replace the departed personnel and potentially lose opportunities in the transition of important job functions. 11 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 