Item 1A. Risk Factors. General UQM Technologies, Inc., ("UQM") is a developer and manufacturer of energy efficient, power dense, electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers. We were incorporated in the state of Colorado in 1967. Our primary focus is incorporating our advanced technology into products aimed at emerging markets for electrically propelled vehicles that are expected to experience rapid growth as well as selected existing commercial markets. We operate our business in two segments: 1) technology - which encompasses the further advancement and application of our proprietary motors, generators, power electronics and software; and 2) power products - which encompasses the manufacture of motors, generators, power electronic controllers and related products. Our $0.01 par value common stock trades on the NYSE Amex, Chicago, Pacific, Berlin and Frankfurt stock exchanges under the symbol "UQM." The Company's revenue is derived from two principal sources: 1) funded contract research and development services performed for strategic partners, customers and the U.S. government directed toward either the advancement of our proprietary technology portfolio or the application of our proprietary technology to customers' products; and 2) the manufacture and sale of products engineered by us. We have two principal operating companies: 1) UQM Technologies, Inc. which includes the Corporate Headquarters and Engineering and Product Development Center; and 2) wholly-owned subsidiary UQM Power Products, Inc. ("UQM Power") which is an ISO quality certified manufacturer of our products. Both operating companies are located in Frederick, Colorado. Technology Our technology base includes a number of proprietary technologies and patents relating to brushless permanent magnet motors, generators and power electronic controllers, together with software code to intelligently manage the operation of our systems. See also "Patents" below. The typical architecture of a UQM® motor consists of a stator winding employing a high pole count configuration, which allows for high copper utilization (minimizing energy loss and cost) and a hollow rotor upon which powerful rare earth permanent magnets are mounted on the outer circumference. The stator is affixed to a housing containing a mounting ring and bearings, which allows the rotor to be suspended within the stator. Commutation of the machine is accomplished electronically by sensing the position of the rotor in relation to the stator and intelligently pulsing electrical energy into the stator such that the electric field generated by the stator interacts with the magnetic field of the rotor, producing rotational motion ("motor operation"). Conversely, the application of rotational motion to the rotor by an external force results in the generation of electrical power ("generator operation"). UQM® machines can be operated in either a forward or reverse direction of rotation and either in motor or generator mode and can dynamically change from one mode of operation to another in millisecond response time. The hollow design of the rotor permits the packaging of other components such as gears and electromechanical brakes in the interior of the machine. These design features contribute to lower usage of copper and iron and other materials generally (due to smaller package dimensions), reducing manufacturing cost over those for conventional machines of similar power. In addition, the utilization of neodymium-iron-boron ("NdFeB") magnet material in a wide-range of consumer devices such as cell phones, disk drives and medical devices, has dramatically improved the availability, performance and price of this material, allowing us to price our advanced motors and controls competitively with lesser performing conventional motors, which we believe will accelerate the rate of commercialization of our technology. Attributes of our permanent magnet motor technology include brushless electronic commutation, a relatively large air-gap dimension (useful for hybrid electric applications where the motor is integrated with an engine or transmission), the use of powerful rare earth NdFeB magnet material, good heat rejection, low iron and copper content and low mechanical losses. As a result, UQM® motors have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. Attributes of our microprocessor-based digital power electronic controllers include high power operation (up to 500 amps at 400 volts), four-quadrant control (forward/reverse and motoring/generation), reduced switching losses, adaptive switch timing control and controller area network ("CAN") capability. As a result, UQM® controllers have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. The UQM® embedded DSP software is the intelligence that coordinates the interaction between the motor and motor controller, as well as interfacing with a vehicle controller. Software control algorithms are a key piece of the Company's intellectual property portfolio. One aspect of the software is a patented method of control referred to as Phase Timing Advancement that enables UQM® motors to deliver both high output torque at low operating speeds and high power at increasing operating speeds. We have extended the capability of Phase Advance Control by using Adaptive Control techniques. These proprietary software algorithms alter the switching strategy as a function of DC voltage, operating speed and output power, optimizing system performance under dynamic conditions. The result is maximized output and efficiency which decreases fuel consumption in hybrid electric vehicles and increases the range of battery electric vehicles. Adaptive Control also optimizes the output per unit of voltage and current, maximizing the utilization of the onboard stored energy and other electrical devices by extracting power from substantially the entire electrical cycle of the motor. The application of these proprietary control strategies has allowed us to recently increase the peak and continuous power output and improve the efficiency of our systems. In addition, our motor controllers now have user configurable functionality and increased data transmission speeds and response times, improving vehicle capability. Included in this functionality is the ability to switch between torque, speed, and voltage control dynamically, which is especially useful for parallel hybrids and generator applications of our technology. For vehicle developers, our new Graphical User Interface provides the means to tailor any UQM® system to create the desired driving experience. Conventional permanent magnet motor designs are limited to operating at either high torque at low speeds, sacrificing power at high speed, or vice versa. In most vehicle propulsion applications, high torque is required to launch the vehicle from a standing-stop, with a subsequent transition to high power as the vehicle is accelerated to highway speeds. In the majority of conventional internal combustion engine powered vehicles, the transition from high torque to high power is accomplished through the multiple gear changes performed by a mechanical transmission. UQM® motors, incorporating phase advance technology, are suited as propulsion drives in electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles due to their ability to power a vehicle from a standing-stop to highway speeds without mechanical gear changes, thereby eliminating the size, weight, complexity and cost of mechanical transmissions. We have also developed a technology that allows our permanent magnet motors to achieve a 10 to 1 top speed to base speed ratio. This technology also provides both high torque and high-speed capability in the same machine, but at levels greater than that of other motor technologies. Many electric motor applications require high torque capability for starting and low speed operation, but must also achieve high speed. For military vehicles, high torque at low speed translates into obstacle and grade climbing capability, while high speed enables pursuit, dash and evasive maneuvers as well as on-road convoy transport. Many commercial applications have similar requirements. Conventional vehicles achieve the high torque required for launch and low end acceleration and the constant power required for high road speed by using a transmission and multiple gear changes. Prior to this performance breakthrough, UQM® systems incorporating phase advance were able to achieve a top speed to base speed ratio of 4 to 1. Electrically propelled vehicles designed around a 4 to 1 limitation sometimes require unwanted gearing and/or have less than desired performance. This has particularly been the case in the more demanding off-highway equipment and military vehicle applications. Providing vehicle developers with electric propulsion systems capable of a top speed to base speed ratio of 10 to 1 overcomes a significant limitation and opens up potential new application opportunities for UQM® systems. We have also developed proprietary DC-to-DC converters that convert energy from hybrid electric vehicles with 250 volt to 450 volt battery packs to 12 volts to power lower voltage devices onboard these vehicles and high voltage DC-to-AC inverter technology with output efficiencies of up to 93 percent for use onboard electric, hybrid-electric and fuel cell-electric vehicles. Our inverters convert DC power stored in vehicle battery packs with nominal operating voltages of 340 volts to high quality 110 volt or 220 volt AC power. We are also developing grid-connect capable inverters and associated smart metering technology for potential future application as the utility industry pursues "smart-grid" development. We have two patent applications pending related to technology developments that have the potential to further improve the performance of our motors. We are also performing internally funded research and development to continually improve the functionality of the microprocessor software we use to intelligently control our motor/controller system. Some of these enhancements include torque, speed and voltage control improvements that enable more sophisticated hybrid electric operating strategies, refined generator voltage regulation to facilitate improved battery pack management and further improvements in system efficiency and power output through advances in motor control algorithms. In addition to these activities, the U.S. Air Force has contracted us to manage a research and development project in cooperation with Mississippi State University, directed toward the development of high temperature power switching devices using silicon carbide that may lead to improved power handling capability for our motor controllers. The majority of our research and development activities are the result of projects contracted with and funded by customers, for which we typically retain intellectual property rights in the resulting technology developed. Customer funded development activities are recorded in our financial statements as contract services revenue and the associated development costs are shown as cost of contract services. Internally-funded research and development expenditures are charged to research and development expense when incurred. In recent years, we have focused our research and development activities on the development of commercial products and production engineering activities to lower the cost of manufacture, as well as enhance the performance and capability of our systems, as opposed to basic research in the field. We believe our future growth is dependent, in part, on the continued advancement of our technology portfolio and our ability to commercialize our technology in additional product applications and markets. Accordingly, we expect to continue to pursue additional customer funded programs and to selectively invest in internally funded development projects to accomplish these objectives. Vehicle Electrification Our primary focus is incorporating our advanced technology into products aimed at emerging markets for electrically propelled vehicles that are expected to experience rapid growth as well as selected existing commercial markets. Existing Markets Today there are numerous well-established markets for products that incorporate electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers that are targets for replacement by our advantaged systems. Examples of existing electric vehicle markets that we believe may present opportunities for the commercialization of our proprietary technology include electric wheelchairs, golf carts, forklift trucks and other warehouse vehicles, aircraft tugs and other support equipment, commercial floor cleaning equipment and other similar markets where the product application generally requires high torque and variable speed operation. In addition, there are a multitude of electric auxiliary motors used on conventional vehicles that provide a further opportunity for replacement by our systems. We have developed and commercialized several products for existing markets that are currently being manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, UQM Power. These products include a fan blower motor and a compressor drive motor that are used in aircraft air conditioning systems manufactured by Keith Products, Inc., a vehicle auxiliary actuator motor for a product manufactured by Lippert Components, Inc. and an electric brake actuation motor that is used in selected golf carts manufactured by Club Car, Inc. We expect to continue to commercialize both technologically advanced and low cost products that we develop to customer specifications in selected large, established markets. Emerging Markets Potentially large markets are developing as a result of the electrification of a wide-range of vehicle platforms. The electrification of vehicles is being pursued for a variety of application specific reasons including: 1) improved fuel economy, 2) lower vehicle emissions, 3) greater reliability and lower maintenance, 4) the need for higher levels of available onboard electric power to run electrical devices, and 5) improved performance and vehicle control. Of these reasons, improved fuel economy has emerged as a significant factor in the development and potential rate of growth of the emerging vehicle electrification markets as crude oil prices are expected to resume their rise, and consumers and businesses alike have to contend with higher gasoline and diesel prices. This trend toward higher fuel prices is expected to continue for the foreseeable future, driven by tight supply levels, geopolitical turmoil in key oil producing countries and expected future increases in world demand, driven principally by escalating consumption of fossil fuels by developing countries such as China and India. In addition to these factors, government regulations mandating reductions in pollutants from diesel engines are expected to further accelerate the trend toward electrification as increasingly stringent regulations continue, with the next reduction set for 2010. Further, Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE') standards recently received their first overhaul in more than 30 years. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 requires, in part, that automakers boost fleetwide gas mileage to 35 mpg by the year 2020. This requirement applies to all passenger automobiles, including "light trucks." Other recent government legislation, including the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Stimulus Bill), encourage the development and introduction of environmentally friendly vehicles. A partial listing of some of the more notable provisions of this legislation includes: Tax credits for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles Low cost loans to manufacturers and component suppliers to purchase infrastructure and develop manufacturing capacity for clean vehicles and components used in these vehicles Funding for government agencies to acquire environmentally friendly vehicles Grants for the development of clean vehicles and clean vehicle component technology Grants for the development of a "smart" electric grid Crude oil consumption in the United States as reported by the Transportation Energy Data Book; Edition 27 and the EIA Annual Energy Outlook 2009 averages approximately 21 million barrels per day. Of this amount, approximately two-thirds are used for transportation. Every day the U.S. consumes 21 million barrels of oil. Non-transportation Over 2/3 of the oil we consume is used for transportation. The electrification of conventional vehicles, ranging from passenger vehicles and over-the-road trucks to off-road vehicles such as agricultural tractors, construction equipment and military vehicles, can potentially offer improvements in fuel economy and emissions. Nearly all conventional vehicles are powered by a gasoline or diesel fueled internal combustion engine that converts the energy stored in the fuel to rotating power out of the engine. The power out of the engine's rotating shaft is used to propel the vehicle and operate all of the vehicles auxiliaries either directly with belts, pulleys and gears or indirectly through electricity generated from a belted alternator. Internal combustion engines are relatively inefficient, typically converting only 25 to 35 percent of the input energy in the fuel to the output shaft to do useful work. The remaining 65 to 75 percent of the input energy is wasted by the engine as heat loss. Electric motors on the other hand, are much more efficient in converting input electric energy to the rotating shaft to do useful work. UQM® electric propulsion systems have some of the highest efficiencies (input energy to output work) in the industry ranging from 80 to 95 percent. The electrification of vehicles can range from simply replacing inefficient belt and gear driven under-the-hood auxiliaries (water pump, power steering, HVAC, cooling fans etc.) with efficient electric powered ones, to eliminating the internal combustion engine entirely and replacing it with full electric propulsion such as in a battery or fuel cell powered vehicle. Generally, as the vehicle power plant content becomes increasingly more electric, the fuel efficiency improves and the cost and complexity increases. With rising fuel prices, vehicle makers are finding it much more feasible to justify this added complexity and cost. We believe that the trend toward increasing electrification of vehicles will continue at an accelerated pace. Accordingly, we have developed and continue to develop, with considerable funding from our customers, electric propulsion systems and other motor and electronic products that will enable our customers to introduce alternative powered vehicles in the markets they serve, should they elect to do so. An expanded description of the different degrees of vehicle electrification follows: Electrification of engine driven auxiliaries - In most existing conventional gasoline and diesel-powered vehicles, under-the-hood components such as water, oil and fuel pumps, power steering systems, cooling fans and air conditioning compressors are powered by engine belts, pulleys and gears. These devices perform their functions very inefficiently and represent a significant load on the engine. Because they are directly connected to the engine, there is no way to independently vary their speed or modulate their power. The electrification of these components provides numerous advantages including: 1) variable speed and power operation which improves efficiency and fuel economy, 2) the ability to locate them strategically anywhere in the vehicle because an electric component does not require proximity to an engine driven belt or gear, 3) improved controllability and reliability and 4) flexible architectures and improved access for service and maintenance. Existing conventional alternators do not provide enough power to electrify the engine driven auxiliaries and must be replaced with a higher power generator. The typical UQM® generator is nearly twice as efficient and provides five times the power of a conventional alternator. In addition, these higher power generators can provide export power to power other on-board or off-board equipment. This electrification strategy is easily adopted because required changes to vehicle design and operation are the least disruptive and can improve vehicle fuel economy by 7 to 15 percent. Parallel hybrids - Parallel hybrid vehicles incorporate an electric motor to join the internal combustion engine in propelling the vehicle. In a low power configuration, often referred to as a "mild hybrid", a starter/motor/generator that is typically integrated into the flywheel of an engine is used to combine three separate functions in one electric machine. The machine starts the engine, eliminating the need for a conventional starter, performs power generation, eliminating a conventional belt driven alternator, and can be run in motoring mode, supplying supplemental power to the driveline to improve acceleration and vehicle performance. Higher power parallel hybrids incorporate additional system features such as regenerative braking and automatic engine shutdown and all-electric propulsion during certain operating conditions. In a typical parallel hybrid vehicle, acceleration from a standing-stop is generally performed by the electric motor in all-electric mode up to a given speed, at which time the engine starts and the engine and electric motor work in parallel to accelerate the vehicle. Once the vehicle achieves highway speed, the motor ceases operation and the vehicle is propelled using the engine only. During braking operations, the motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture energy that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. If the batteries need additional charging, the engine drives the electric machine in generator mode, sending electricity to charge the battery pack. These vehicles have sufficient battery charging capacity to be self-sustaining thereby eliminating the need to plug the vehicle into the electric power grid. Depending on the vehicle's level of electric motive power and its duty cycle, parallel hybrids can achieve fuel economy improvements of 10 to 45 percent. Series hybrids - Series hybrid vehicles contain a greater degree of electrification than parallel hybrids. In a typical series hybrid vehicle, all of the motive power for the vehicle is supplied by electric motors, thereby eliminating conventional driveline components such as the transmission and drive shaft. Generally, series hybrids contain a larger amount of batteries to store electrical energy and the engine's principal function is to turn a separate generator to produce the electrical energy necessary to maintain the state of charge of the onboard battery pack. As in a parallel hybrid, during braking operations the electric motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture energy that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. Also, as in the parallel hybrid, a series hybrid vehicle has sufficient battery charging capacity to be self-sustaining, thereby eliminating the need to plug the vehicle into the electric power grid. Because the engine serves as an under-the-hood power plant, series hybrids typically have large amounts of available onboard power to perform additional functions while the vehicle is operating or when it reaches its final destination. Depending on vehicle configuration and duty cycle, series hybrids can achieve fuel economy improvements of 35 to 50 percent. Plug-in hybrids - A plug-in hybrid vehicle can be configured as either a parallel or a series hybrid. What distinguishes this category of hybrid is that it is designed to operate in all-electric only mode for a range of 20 to 40 miles and be charge depleting therefore requiring it to be periodically plugged into and recharged from the electric grid. Because a portion of the energy consumed by a plug-in hybrid vehicle is acquired at a relatively low cost from the electrical grid in addition to the efficiencies obtained from its hybrid configuration, this category of vehicle can achieve fuel economy improvements of 60 to 75 percent. All-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles - All-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles are powered entirely from electric energy stored on board in batteries or generated on board by a fuel cell. In this category of vehicle, all motive power is produced by electric motors and there is no engine and associated fuel, driveline and exhaust components. Similarly, many vehicle functions currently performed by auxiliaries attached to the engine through belts or gears, such as power steering and air conditioning, must be performed using electric motors. As with hybrid electric vehicles, all-electric battery-powered vehicles can switch the electric propulsion motor during braking operations; the electric motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture energy that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. The energy needs of all-electric battery-powered vehicles are obtained by recharging their batteries using the electric power grid. Fuel cells are energy production devices that generate electricity through a chemical reaction resulting from combining hydrogen and oxygen. The by-product of this reaction is water, therefore allowing for the total elimination of vehicle exhaust emissions in this category of vehicle. Because there is no battery energy storage in a fuel cell powered vehicle, there is no opportunity for regenerative braking energy recapture. Fuel economy improvements for all-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles are generally 75 percent or greater. Markets We have historically focused our resources on the development of highly efficient electric propulsion systems for each category of vehicle described above with power levels of 0.5 kW to 150 kW, which are suitable for vehicles ranging from wheelchairs to passenger automobiles to large trucks, buses, tractors, construction equipment and military vehicles. In addition, we have developed electric motors, generators and electronic controls to power under-the-hood auxiliaries such as water, oil and fuel pumps, power steering, cooling fans and air conditioning compressors. We have also developed DC-to-DC converters that step down high voltage electrical systems to 12 volts and DC-to-AC inverters that convert DC power to consumer friendly 110-volt alternating current power. We are pursuing the commercialization of our technology and products designed by us in numerous large emerging and existing markets where we intend to introduce technologically advanced products or lower cost systems or a combination of both. We believe that our technology and products are well-suited for application in a wide-range of vehicles as the trend toward electrification continues to gain momentum. In this regard, we have focused our attention on several niche markets where we believe we can most effectively compete and which we expect will have higher than average rates of growth and expansion. A brief description of each of these markets follows: Passenger automobiles and light trucks - In past years, approximately 16 million passenger automobiles and light trucks were sold in the United States each year, although these production levels have declined dramatically over the last year to a current annual rate of approximately 9 million units. Over the last several years a market has developed for automobiles that are powered by hybrid electric powertrains. These vehicles have good performance and provide above average fuel economy compared to conventional automobiles. Several automakers have introduced vehicle models incorporating hybrid electric powertrains including Toyota, Lexus, Nissan, Honda, Ford, Saturn and General Motors. These automakers to date are using hybrid electric powertrains that they have developed themselves or have acquired from other automakers or existing Tier 1 automotive suppliers. Many of these automobile companies are also developing fuel cell or battery-powered vehicles that they hope to introduce at a future date. We have recently shipped electric and hybrid electric propulsion systems and /or generators to five international automobile companies for use in vehicle development programs. In addition to established automakers, there are a variety of small entrepreneurial companies that are developing and hope to commercialize electric, hybrid electric and/or plug-in hybrid electric cars. Although many of these companies lack substantial financial resources and/or significant automobile industry experience, they are pursuing a variety of strategies to introduce these types of automobiles into either niche markets, such as for fleet users or high-end luxury sports car buyers, or the consumer vehicle market generally. Should any of these companies be successful in commercializing their product offerings, it could cause the growth rate of this market to accelerate significantly. These companies are generally using electric or hybrid electric powertrains that they have developed themselves or have been developed by other entrepreneurial companies. We have recently shipped electric and hybrid electric propulsion systems and/or generators to eight of these companies and have been and continue to be in discussions with nearly all of these companies regarding the use of our equipment in their vehicle development programs. Trucks, Buses and Recreational Vehicles - The U.S. Department of Energy estimated that in 2007, trucks consumed 6.3 million barrels of crude oil per day and they project that by 2030, trucks will consume approximately 55 percent of all crude oil used in transportation, or 10 million barrels of crude oil per day. In recent years, approximately 6 million trucks, buses and other medium and heavy-duty on-road vehicles were sold in the United States each year, although these quantities have declined substantially over the last year. The market for these vehicles is characterized by a large number of suppliers, a wide-range of vehicle designs and configurations, diverse power and performance levels and relatively low production volumes for each model. As a result, the typical truck, bus and other medium and heavy-duty vehicle manufacturer is unlikely to have the technical expertise or financial resources to internally develop components that can compete in emerging markets for increasingly electrified vehicles. Accordingly, we expect these manufacturers to purchase products from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors; generators and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. We are currently supplying an automotive qualified DC-to-DC converter to Eaton Corporation which is used onboard medium and heavy-duty hybrid trucks. We have also developed a DC-to-AC inverter that we expect to sell into the truck market to meet the growing onboard and export power requirements of hybrid trucks. Some medium and heavy-duty hybrid electric trucks manufactured by customers of Eaton currently have our DC-to-DC converter on board. We expect the medium and heavy-duty hybrid electric truck market to grow at an accelerating rate as potential customers for these vehicles gain a greater understanding of their operational, environmental and economic advantages. In addition to our supplier relationship with Eaton, we have been and expect to continue to be in discussion with truck OEMs regarding potential niche vehicle programs. We have supplied a hybrid electric propulsion system to a commercial truck manufacturer in the Middle East and have been selected as the propulsion system supplier for the ZeroTruck™, an all-electric medium-duty truck being developed by Electrorides, Inc. Also, several truck manufacturers are considering other electrically-based products that either enhance the utility of their vehicles, such as the ability to generate large amounts of exportable electric power, or that may be necessary to meet regulatory mandates, such as diesel engine emission standards and restrictions on emissions arising from diesel engine idling. These products include electric propulsion systems, higher power engine generators, electric auxiliaries and DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters. We intend to continue to aggressively pursue the commercialization of our products for these and other applications in the market for electric and hybrid trucks as it emerges over the next several years. We are also involved in a number of bus programs. Over the last several years we have supplied generators and motor controllers to the Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD) for its fleet of thirty-six MallRide hybrid electric shuttle buses, the first large-scale deployment of hybrid electric buses for use in the United States. The 45-foot MallRide hybrid electric shuttles operate on the 16th Street Mall in downtown Denver, providing a free ride for passengers across the 1.3 mile long 16th Street Mall. We also are the propulsion system supplier for a hybrid electric bus being developed by Proterra LLC, Golden, Colorado. The 40-foot composite body bus is being developed in both an all-electric battery and plug-in hybrid configuration. We are also the supplier of propulsion motors to a collaborative advanced hybrid electric bus development program being performed by the Flint Michigan Mass Transportation Authority ("MTA"), Kettering University, Michigan State University and Transportation Techniques LLC. MTA currently operates five hybrid electric cutaway buses on routes in Flint, Michigan and throughout Genesee County. The replacement of the existing propulsion systems with a UQM™ propulsion system is expected to provide additional fuel efficiency improvements of 15 percent to 20 percent over that achieved by the current hybrid buses, or an overall improvement of up to 40 percent over standard diesel-powered vehicles. We currently supply a vehicle auxiliary actuator motor to Lippert Components, Inc. for use in conventional recreational vehicles. We have manufactured and shipped over 65,000 units since the launch of production in fiscal 2007. There are a variety of specialty on-road manufacturers of conventional vehicles who represent an opportunity for us to further expand the deployment of our products, and we intend to continue to pursue the commercialization of our products for these applications. Off-road vehicles - There are a wide-range of off-road vehicles sold in the United States each year. These vehicles range from small - wheelchairs, golf carts, fork trucks, riding lawn mowers, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, etc., - to large construction, agricultural and mining equipment. The markets for small vehicles are typically characterized by relatively high volumes, low power levels and commodity pricing. We expect to continue to compete selectively in off-road vehicle markets where the customer requires advanced technology or superior performance and where acceptable gross profit margins are obtainable. The market for large equipment - tractors, construction, mining and other specialty equipment - possesses many of the same characteristics as the over-the-road truck market described above. In recent past years, it is estimated that approximately 500,000 of these vehicles were sold in the United States each year. Accordingly, we expect these vehicle manufacturers to purchase products with similar specifications as those required in the over-the-road truck and bus markets from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. Although these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, they nevertheless represent a substantial opportunity due to higher power levels, substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. We currently have systems under evaluation by several large off-road vehicle developers for both electric propulsion and under-the-hood auxiliary applications. We have also developed electric power products for the aircraft and aerospace market and the boat and marine market. In the aerospace market, we have developed electric auxiliary motors and controllers used in aircraft air conditioning systems. We have also developed auxiliary power units for the generation of onboard power and propulsion systems for various boat applications. We believe that some of the fuel efficiency benefits of vehicle electrification can also be realized in the boat and marine market. Although our focus is primarily on land applications, we will continue to leverage our technology and products in these potentially large niche markets as opportunities present themselves. Military vehicles - The U.S. military purchases a wide-range of ground vehicles each year including combat vehicles such as tanks, self-propelled artillery and armored personnel carriers, as well as a variety of light, medium and heavy-duty trucks for convoy and supply operations and for the transport of fuel used on the battlefield. The military is particularly interested in the electrification of vehicles because the attributes that these vehicles possess offer exceptional potential for the military to achieve its long-term objectives of developing a highly mobile, lethal fighting force. Fuel economy improvements in military vehicles transfer into substantial savings in support infrastructure and transportation costs associated with transporting fuel to the battlefield, which is typically thousands of miles from the United States. For example, if fuel economy improvements of 25 percent are achieved in the average truck, a corresponding amount of fuel does not have to be transported and therefore a corresponding number of airplanes or tankers are not required in the transportation process. Also, the availability of onboard electrical power on military vehicles opens up new opportunities for the development of sophisticated surveillance, detection and battlefield monitoring equipment and for laser, microwave and electrical pulse weapon systems. It is estimated that the military purchases approximately 8,000 trucks per year and greater numbers during periods of armed conflict. As is the case with large off-road equipment, these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, operate at higher power levels, have substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. We have, over the last several years, been working with a number of military contractors and vehicle makers including DRS Technologies, AM General, BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics and others, on prototype hybrid electric vehicles, high export power generators, electric auxiliaries, DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters. Although this market has not yet begun to emerge, we believe that it may begin to soon, driven by the availability of hybrid electric components in the commercial truck market that operate at similar power levels as those required by many military vehicles. Distributed power generation - There has recently been an increased focus on the development and adoption of clean, renewable energy products including wind turbine power generators, solar panels and stationary fuel cell power generators. In addition, many experts believe that power users will increasingly consider on-site power generation using diesel or natural gas fueled internal combustion engine generators as an alternative to power supplied over the electrical grid. The Stimulus Bill recently passed by the U.S. government has allocated substantial funding for power generation technologies and development of a "smart grid". We have developed generators for potential use in this market and have also developed DC-to-AC electronic power inverters for use in distributed power generation applications to convert the DC output of these devices to usable AC power for the homeowner or business. We are currently developing, under the California Energy Commission's Public Interest Energy Research Program and with the U.S. Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), an advanced grid-connect inverter under its Advanced Power Electronics Interface (APEI) Initiative. The objective of the development effort is to design a cost-effective, flexible, readily-manufactured, and ready to be commercialized prototype interface that will standardize the interconnection for a modular, scalable range of APEI systems. We expect to compete for additional development funds available under the Stimulus Bill to further advance our power generation and management technology and potentially expand our product offerings in this market. There is also a developing industry initiative termed "vehicle-to-grid", or "V-to-G", to potentially make available for use on the electric utility grid, the large amount of energy in battery electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. Under this initiative, protocols, guidelines and electronic and software technologies are being developed to allow for the intelligent transfer of electric power from these vehicles to the electric power grid. There are different versions of the vehicle-to-grid concept: 1) A hybrid or fuel cell vehicle, which generates power from storable fuel, uses its generator to produce power for a utility at peak electricity usage times. Here the vehicles serve as a distributed power generation system; and 2) A battery-powered or hybrid vehicle which uses its excess rechargeable battery capacity to provide power to the electric grid during peak load times. These vehicles can then be recharged during off-peak hours at cheaper rates while helping to absorb excess nighttime generation. Here the vehicles serve as a distributed battery storage system to buffer power. The V-to-G concept allows such vehicles to provide power to help load balance (valley fill and peak shave) localized grid segments during peak load periods when the selling price of electricity can be very high, and to buffer electricity, including in power outages. We are currently developing inverter technology that we expect will be capable of functioning in this dynamic energy transfer environment when, and if, it develops into a commercial opportunity. Manufacturing It is our primary objective to become a major manufacturer of electric motor, generator and other power electronic products that incorporate our proprietary technology and to supply these products to electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicle manufacturers and/or their Tier 1 suppliers. We have established and are continuing to expand our manufacturing capability and presence through a planned technology progression driven by key customer demands to address future vehicle requirements. Our manufacturing operations are ISO 9001:2000 quality certified. In March of 2006, we began the volume production of vehicle auxiliary actuator motors for Lippert Components. This production is performed on a highly automated, flexible, mixed model assembly system which is computer controlled and monitored for quality assurance and consistent performance. The development and installation of this assembly system by our organization was instrumental in demonstrating our manufacturing know-how and capability to existing, as well as potentially new, vehicle OEM and Tier 1 supplier customers. We also produce auxiliary actuator motors for Club Car, Inc. on this assembly system. In September of 2006, we began the volume production of DC-to-DC converters for Eaton Corporation as part of their hybrid electric power system for the heavy truck market. We designed and installed a manufacturing cell for these electronic boxes that includes the robotic application of sealant, sixteen hours of burn-in cycling between hot and cold temperature extremes, pressure testing for cooling leaks and complete functional testing. Over the last several years we have established a production engineering group with decades of manufacturing design and production experience, much of which is specific to the automotive industry. Today, this team consists of nearly twenty professionals. In the last two years we have made significant improvements in manufacturing systems, facilities and space utilization and we have adopted the Advanced Product Quality Planning ("APQP") automotive quality procedures. In fiscal year 2009 we installed a production cell to assemble our larger frame size, higher power motors in higher volumes. The capacity of this cell is estimated to be 5,000 systems annually per shift. In order to ensure our cost competitiveness, we have adopted a manufacturing strategy for the near term of designing all product components and then sourcing these parts with quality suppliers. Final assembly, testing, pack-out and shipping of the product is performed at our Frederick, Colorado facility. We have established relationships with many high-quality, low-cost suppliers, including a number of international companies. Future plans are to continue the development and introduction of more advanced and automated manufacturing systems which we believe will ensure our competitiveness in new and emerging markets. With the successful introduction of electric auxiliary motors and power electronic boxes currently in production vehicles, we are now turning our attention to the volume production of high power generators and electric propulsions systems. We believe that the Company is well positioned to leverage its technology and pursue significant production programs with major OEMs and/or their Tier 1 suppliers. Our Opportunity We have developed a range of products including electric propulsion systems, generators, motor controllers and other power electronic products that we believe are ideally suited to the emerging markets for electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. Hybrid electric passenger vehicle sales have grown substantially since their introduction in the North American market in 2000, with over one million units being sold since their introduction. As a result, the fuel economy and emission benefits of hybrid electric technology are broadly understood by consumers worldwide. This, in concert with higher oil prices, tax credits for hybrid electric vehicle purchasers, stricter government emission regulations and growing environmental consciousness, has generated market demand for this class of vehicle. Until recently, passenger vehicle makers have elected to develop their own hybrid electric systems and components, either individually or in cooperation with Tier 1 automotive suppliers; however, we have recently supplied our propulsion systems to six international automotive manufacturers as part of their electric and hybrid electric vehicle development activities. Should any of these automakers elect to utilize our products in future model launches, it would have a material impact on our future rate of growth. In addition to the passenger automobile market, vehicle makers of all types have been evaluating the potential of applying hybrid electric technology to their vehicle platforms. Of these manufacturers, agricultural, construction, medium and heavy-duty truck and bus builders have been the most active, driven by the performance and fuel economy advantages available from this technology, the availability of large amounts of onboard and exportable power and stricter diesel emission mandates. Last year, International Truck and Engine Corporation, a Navistar Company, announced that it was the first company to enter line production of hybrid electric commercial trucks, introducing the International® DuraStar™ Hybrid, a diesel electric medium-duty truck. Similarly, Peterbilt Motors Company, a division of PACCAR Inc., began full production of its Model 330 and Model 335 medium-duty hybrid trucks at its manufacturing facility in Ste. Therese, Quebec, Canada in the summer of 2008 and Freightliner Trucks, a division of Daimler Trucks North America LLC has introduced its Business Class® M2e Hybrid Truck. All of these truck manufacturers use the Eaton Corporation hybrid electric system. The automotive certified DC-to-DC converter manufactured by us for Eaton Corporation is on board many of these hybrid trucks. In addition, Caterpillar, Inc. recently introduced the D7E crawler tractor incorporating an electric drive system for track-type tractors with an electric system that provides power to electric auxiliaries so that no engine belts are required. We believe that these industry developments signal the beginning of a potentially large-scale deployment of electric propulsion and related electronic products into markets other than mass-market passenger automobiles. Should these products receive broad customer acceptance, as we expect they will, potentially substantial opportunities will likely develop over time for our company and other similarly situated companies that have developed technologically advanced products in anticipation of the emergence of these markets. The operating characteristics of electric motors for vehicle propulsion are different from those of more conventional industrial motors. Propulsion motors ideally deliver high levels of torque efficiently at slow rotational speeds and possess the ability to transition from high torque to high speed over a relatively constant power curve allowing, in many cases, the elimination of conventional transmissions. Our proprietary propulsion systems have been specifically developed for these applications and deliver exceptional torque and high rotational speeds in a compact, energy efficient machine. We believe that our portfolio of propulsion systems, power electronic controllers and related electronic products has well positioned our company to compete effectively in these emerging markets. Electric and hybrid electric vehicle makers to-date have generally adopted a 340-volt electrical system to deliver the energy from the battery pack to the electric components and vice versa. Conventional gasoline vehicles generally have a 12-volt electrical system that operates dashboard instruments, lights, horns, etc. The higher electrical system voltages of electric and hybrid vehicles are creating opportunities for companies such as ours to enter the automotive market with a wide-range of under-the-hood auxiliaries including generators and motors to drive water, oil and power steering pumps, air conditioning compressors, and cooling fans, that operate at the new higher voltage. These industry developments, as well as the potential production requirements of our existing customers, may require us to invest a substantially greater amount of financial and human resources in fiscal 2010 and beyond in the commercial launch of products. We believe these investments are necessary to support our strategy of aggressively rolling out automotive certified products to satisfy our customers' requirements as these new market opportunities emerge and expand. As the markets for these advanced vehicles continue to emerge and expand into additional vehicle platforms over the next several years, we expect to experience potentially rapid growth in our revenue coincident with the introduction of electric products by our customers. In parallel to these activities in emerging markets, we expect to continue to pursue additional production opportunities for our proprietary technology in existing markets where the performance of our products can provide our customers with a competitive advantage in the markets they serve. Business Segments At March 31, 2009, we had two reportable segments. These reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services and are managed separately because of their different business strategies. Technology Segment Our technology segment encompasses the operations of our Engineering and Product Development Center which shares a 28,000 square foot facility located in Frederick, Colorado with our motor manufacturing operations which are reported in the power products segment. The Engineering and Product Development Center is equipped with research and development laboratories, prototype build and test facilities for electric motors, generators, power electronic controllers, software, and vehicle integration activities. In addition, we lease 6,000 square feet in a nearby facility where we perform vehicle integration activities. The technology segment conducts customer funded and internally-funded research and engineering activities directed toward: 1) the development of new motors, generators, and power electronic controllers to meet the requirements of customers' specific product applications; 2) integration of our motors, generators and power electronic controllers into customers' products; and 3) support of our power products segment and the low volume manufacture of motors, generators and power electronic controllers. Power Products Segment Our power products segment encompasses the operations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, UQM Power and shares a 28,000 square foot facility located in Frederick, Colorado with the technology segment. UQM Power is the manufacturer of our proprietary products in higher volumes. UQM Power is an ISO 9001:2000 quality certified manufacturer of motors and electronic products designed by the company. Competition All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets served by the technology segment are additionally characterized by rapid changes due to technological advances that can render existing technologies and products obsolete. The technology segment has developed advanced electric propulsion systems and components which we hope to market to vehicle OEMs and their Tier 1 suppliers throughout the world for use in electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. In recent years, the market for hybrid electric automobiles has begun to emerge, led by the introduction and market success of hybrid electric vehicles manufactured by Toyota, Lexus, Honda, Ford and General Motors. Recently, International Truck and Engine Corporation and, Freightliner Trucks and Peterbilt Motors Company announced plans to begin production of hybrid electric medium-duty trucks and Caterpillar, Inc. introduced a belt-less engine/electric tracked bulldozer. As a result, additional vehicle makers in both on-road and off-road markets are expected to develop and introduce a variety of hybrid electric vehicles as the market acceptance of these vehicles continues to grow. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or any other market that now exists or may develop in the future. There are numerous companies developing products that do or soon will compete with our systems. Some of these companies possess significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources than we do, including established supply arrangements and volume manufacturing operations. In addition, the U.S. Government's Stimulus Bill is expected to award substantial financial grants and loans to companies engaged in the development and manufacture of energy efficient, low emission vehicles and the components that enable their operation. Companies that receive awards under the Stimulus Bill may have substantially greater financial resources available to them which could improve their ability to compete with us. We believe our principal competitors include Honda, Toyota, General Motors, Daimler, Hitachi, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi, Danaher, Enova and United Technologies Corp. The power products segment competes primarily in the automotive, heavy equipment, military, aerospace and medical products industries. Each of these industries is extremely competitive. We face substantial competition on a continuing basis from numerous companies, many of whom possess longer operating histories, significantly greater financial resources and marketing, distribution and manufacturing capability. We believe our principal competitors include Advanced Motors and Drives, Allied Motion, Emerson Electric, General Electric, Moog, Rockwell International, Baldor, Hitachi, Hyundai, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi, Danaher, United Technologies, L-3 Communications and Enova. Patents We hold several groups or families of patents. U.S. Patent Nos. 5,311,092 and 5,319,844 disclose and claim a lightweight high-power electromagnetic transducer and method of making the same. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,592,731 and U.S. Patent No. 5,382,859 relate to a stator for high-power density electric motors and generators, and a method of constructing the same. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,677,605 discloses and claims a brushless motor and drive system using phase timing advancement. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,982,063 discloses and claims an electric motor having an internal brake. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 6,522,130 discloses and claims a method for controlling a brushless electric motor having a rotor, and relates to an accurate method for sensing rotor position and detecting rotational speed over a broad range of speeds. U.S. Patent No. 6,693,422 is a related U.S. patent entitled "Accurate Rotor Position Sensor and Method Using Magnet and Sensors Mounted Adjacent to the Magnet and Motor". Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. In 2007, we filed patent applications for a stator design and a permanent magnet rotor geometry for permanent magnet electric motors in the United States, Canada, and Europe. These applications are currently pending. In January of 2009, we filed a U.S. patent application for a distributed generation power system having an integrated electric utility meter and inverter system, including the physical design, placement and interconnection of the integrated electric utility and inverter system. In 1994, we executed an agreement with Alcan Aluminium Limited ("Alcan") in which Alcan assigned to us all of its rights, title and interests in certain motor technology developed under a program funded by Alcan. This agreement further provides that we shall pay to Alcan royalties of one-half of one percent on revenue derived from the manufacture and sale of products or processes embodying the related technology. Royalty payments under this agreement for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $39,850, $32,988 and $23,848, respectively. We also intend to rely on the unpatented proprietary know-how we have developed and now utilize in our products. We cannot provide assurance that others will not independently develop, acquire or obtain access to our technology. Although we protect our unpatented proprietary rights by executing confidentiality agreements with our management, employees and others with access to our technology, these measures may not be adequate to protect us from disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Trademarks We have registered the letters "UQM" in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Counterpart applications have been filed in numerous countries throughout the world, most of which have granted registrations or indicated them to be allowable. We own three U.S. Trademark Registrations for "UQM" (International Class 7 for power transducers, Class 12 for utility land vehicles, and Class 16 for publications). The foreign trademark registrations and applications include major markets where we are doing business or establishing business contacts. We have also registered the trademark "POWERPHASE" which we use in conjunction with certain of our propulsion systems. The trademark is registered in the European Community and several other foreign countries. Backlog Our technology segment had unperformed service contracts from customers, which will provide future revenue upon completion totaling approximately $0.7 million, and an order backlog for prototype motors and controllers of approximately $2.0 million at April 30, 2009, compared to $2.4 million and $0.8 million, respectively at April 30, 2008. All such service contracts are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to complete all unperformed service contracts over the next six months and ship motor and controller backlog products over the next twelve months. Our power products segment had an order backlog of approximately $3.0 million at April 30, 2009 compared to $3.7 million at April 30, 2008. Many orders are issued to us as blanket purchase orders subject to the issuance of subsequent release orders which direct the number and timing of actual deliveries. Substantially all of the backlog amounts at April 30, 2009 and 2008 are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to ship all backlog products within the next twelve months. Customers and Suppliers We have historically derived significant revenue from a few key customers. Revenue from Invacare Corporation, which is a customer of our power products segment, was $292,414, $508,903, and $830,637 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing 3.4 percent, 6.8 percent and 12.5 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented 2.0 and 15.9 percent of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2009 and, 2008, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for Invacare Corporation were nil and 7.0 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue from Lippert Components, Inc., which is also a customer of our power products segment, was $635,144, $1,271,502 and $1,059,930 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing 7.3 percent, 16.9 percent and 15.9 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented nil and 8.1 percent of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for Lippert Components, Inc. were 26.7 and 32.6 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenue from the Denver Regional Transportation District, which is a customer of our Power Products segment, was $3,337, $864,540, and $417,750 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively; representing nil, 11.5 percent and 6.3 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented nil and 19.9 percent of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We did not have any raw materials, work-in-process or finished goods inventory for the Denver Regional Transportation District at March 31, 2009 and 2008. Revenue from Quantum Fuel Systems Technologies Worldwide Inc., which is also a customer of our power products segment, was $1,360,909, $256,393 and zero for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing 15.6 percent, 3.4 percent and nil percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented 15.8 and 8.1 percent of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We did not have any raw materials, work-in-process or finished goods inventory for Quantum Fuel Systems Technologies Worldwide Inc. at March 31, 2009 and 2008. Principal raw materials and components purchased by us include iron, steel, electronic components, magnets and copper wire. Most of these items are available from several suppliers. Certain components used by us are custom designs and if our current supplier no longer made them available to us, we could experience production delays. U.S. Government Contracts Revenue derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government and from subcontracts with U.S. Government prime contractors was $1,989,872 or approximately 22.8 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2009, $2,329,248, or approximately 31.0 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2008 and $2,313,856, or approximately 34.8 percent of consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2007. Accounts receivable from government-funded contracts represented 5.6 percent and 11.5 percent of total accounts receivable as of March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Some of our business with the U.S. Government was performed on a cost plus fixed fee basis. These contracts provide for reimbursement of costs, to the extent allocable and allowable under applicable regulations, and payment of a fee. Certain other contracts with the U.S. Government provide for the reimbursement of costs on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis based on not-to-exceed billing rates negotiated between the U.S. Government and us. Other U.S. Government business is performed under firm fixed price contracts. On "cost-share" and "firm fixed price" contracts, we can incur an actual loss in the performance thereof if incurred costs exceed the contract amount. All of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification or cancellation at the convenience of the Government. Employee and Labor Relations As of April 30, 2009, we had 60 total employees, of whom 59 are full-time employees. We have entered into employment contracts with four of our executive officers. All of these contracts expire on August 22, 2012. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relationship with employees has been generally satisfactory. In addition to our full-time staff, we from time to time engage the services of outside consultants and contract employees to meet peak workload or specialized program requirements. We do not anticipate any difficulty in locating additional qualified engineers, technicians and production workers, if so required, to meet expanded research and development or manufacturing operations. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Anyone seeking information about our business can receive copies of our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Annual Report to Shareholders, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports and other documents, filed with the SEC at the public reference section of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. These documents also may be obtained, free of charge, by: contacting our Investor Relations office by e-mail at investor@uqm.com; by phone at (303) 278-2002; writing to UQM Technologies, Inc., Investor Relations, PO Box 439, Frederick, CO 80530-0439; or accessing our website at www.uqm.com. We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the materials electronically with the SEC. [To obtain any of this information, go to www.uqm.com, select "Investor Relations" and "SEC Filings."] Our website also includes our Audit Committee Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as well as the procedures for reporting a violation of business ethics. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS TOC Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. We have incurred significant losses and may continue to do so. We have incurred significant net losses as shown in the following tables: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net loss $ 4,402,019 $ 4,586,105 $ 3,431,357 We have had accumulated deficits as follows: March 31, 2009 $ 69,425,239 March 31, 2008 $ 65,023,220 In the future, we plan to make additional investments in product development and commercialization, we expect will cause us to remain unprofitable for at least the next few years. Our operating losses and working capital requirements could consume our current cash balances. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 was $4,402,019 versus a net loss last fiscal year of $4,586,105. At March 31, 2009, our cash and short-term investments totaled $5,793,666. We expect our losses to continue for at least the next few years, and our operations could consume some or all of our cash balances. We expect to make additional investments in human resources, manufacturing facilities and equipment, production and application engineering, among other things, in order to effectively compete in the emerging market for electric and hybrid electric vehicles. We cannot assure you, however, that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to complete our business plan. Should our existing cash resources be insufficient, we may need to secure additional funding. We cannot assure you; however, that funding will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Some of our contracts can be cancelled with little or no notice and could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Some of our technology has been developed under government funding by United States government agencies. In some cases, government agencies in the United States can require us to obtain or produce components for our systems from sources located in the United States rather than foreign countries. Our contracts with government agencies are also subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency and in some cases grant "march-in" rights to the government. March-in rights are the right of the United States government or the applicable government agency, under limited circumstances, to exercise a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable worldwide license to any technology developed under contracts funded by the government to facilitate commercialization of technology developed with government funding. March-in rights can be exercised if we fail to commercialize the developed technology. The implementation of restrictions on our sourcing of components or the exercise of march-in rights by the government or an agency of the government could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Some of our orders for the future delivery of products are placed under blanket purchase orders which may be cancelled by our customers at any time. The amount payable to the company, if any, upon cancellation by the customer varies by customer. Accordingly, we may not recognize as revenue all or any portion of the amount of outstanding order backlog we have reported. We face intense competition in our motor development and may be unable to compete successfully. In developing electric motors for use in vehicles and other applications, we face competition from very large domestic and international companies, including the world's largest automobile manufacturers. These companies have far greater resources to apply to research and development efforts than we have, and they may independently develop motors that are technologically more advanced than ours. These competitors also have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. In addition, the U.S. Government is expected to award substantial financial grants and loans under the recently enacted stimulus bill to companies engaged in the development and manufacture of energy efficient, low emission vehicles. To the extent that our competitors receive awards under the stimulus bill in amounts or proportions greater than we do, our ability to compete could be adversely impacted. If we fail to develop and achieve market acceptance for our products, our business may not grow. We believe our proprietary systems are suited for a wide-range of vehicle electrification applications. We currently expect to make substantial investments in human resources, manufacturing facilities and equipment, production and application engineering, among other things, to capitalize on the anticipated expansion in demand for products related to this market area. However, our experience in this market area is limited. Our sales in this area will depend in part on the market acceptance of and demand for our proprietary propulsion systems and related future products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to introduce or market our products, develop other new products or product enhancements in a timely or cost-effective manner or that our products will achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary technology, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would impair our competitiveness and ability to commercialize our products. In addition, the cost of enforcing our proprietary rights may be expensive and result in increased losses. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We have historically pursued patent protection in a limited number of foreign countries where we believe significant markets for our products exist or where potentially significant competitors have operations. It is possible that a substantial market could develop in a country where we have not received patent protection and under such circumstances our proprietary products would not be afforded legal protection in these markets. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We cannot assure that additional patents will be issued to us or, if they are issued, as to the scope of their protection. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action, it would divert funds and resources which otherwise could be used in our operations and we cannot assure that we would be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we may operate or sell our products in the future. If third parties assert technology infringement claims against us, the defense of the claims could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time and attention from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our results of operations may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Use of our motors in vehicles could subject us to product liability claims, and product liability insurance claims could cause an increase in our insurance rates or could exceed our insurance limits, which could impair our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Because most of our motors are designed for use in vehicles, and because vehicle accidents can cause injury to persons and property, we are subject to a risk of claims for product liability. We carry product liability insurance of $10 million covering most of our products. If we were to experience a large insured loss, it might exceed our coverage limits, or our insurance carriers could decline to further cover us or raise our insurance rates to unacceptable levels, any of which could impair our financial position and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS TOC None. 