Item 1A. Risk Factors. General UQM Technologies, Inc., ("UQM") is a developer and manufacturer of power dense, high efficiency electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers for the automotive, aerospace, military and industrial markets. A major emphasis of the Company is developing products for the alternative energy technologies sector including propulsion systems for electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles, under-the-hood power accessories and other vehicle auxiliaries. The Company's headquarters, engineering and product development center, and motor manufacturing operation are located in Frederick, Colorado. Our primary focus is incorporating our advanced technology into products aimed at emerging markets for electrically propelled vehicles that are expected to experience rapid growth. In June 2009 we entered into a ten year Supply Agreement with CODA Automotive to supply UQM® PowerPhase® electric propulsion systems to CODA Automotive's production partner, Harbin HaFei Automobile Industry Group Co. Ltd. ("HaFei"), Harbin, China. HaFei is the third largest automobile manufacturer in China. Initial shipments of production systems under the agreement are expected to begin later this calendar year and ramp up prior to scheduled deliveries of CODA's all-electric four-door sedan in the California market in the fall of 2010. CODA hopes to sell 14,000 vehicles in calendar year 2011 reaching an annual run rate of 20,000 vehicles, which, if achieved, would result in annual revenue to us well in excess of $50 million. In August 2009 we were selected to receive a $45.1 million award from the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to accelerate the manufacturing and deployment of electric vehicles, batteries and components in the United States. The award was finalized in January 2010. The award provides for a 50 percent cost-share by the Company raising the total value of the project to $90.2 million. Capital expenditures for facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment and the qualification and testing of products associated with the launch of volume production for CODA Automotive, as well as other customers, are expected to qualify for reimbursement under the DOE program. The contract also provides for the reimbursement of qualifying pre-award expenditures incurred after August 5, 2009. Expected reimbursements under this provision for production engineering expenditures incurred through March 31, 2010 totaled approximately $1.6 million and are expected to be recorded during the first quarter of fiscal 2011 as a reduction of production engineering expense. Reimbursements received from the DOE through March 31, 2010 for capital assets acquired totaled $3.6 million, which were recorded as a reduction in the cost basis of the assets acquired. In October 2009 we completed a public offering of 8.625 million shares of our common stock. Net cash proceeds to the Company from the offering were approximately $32 million. Proceeds from the offering are being used as matching funds under the DOE ARRA grant and the remaining portion is expected to be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. In December 2009 we completed the purchase of a 129,304 square foot facility on a 30 acre site in Longmont, Colorado to support our expected growth in manufacturing operations. The facility, which includes approximately 30,000 square feet of office space, will house the Company's engineering, vehicle integration and headquarters staff in addition to the Company's high volume motor and electronic manufacturing operations. Approximately 15 acres of the site are available for future facility expansion. The purchase price of the facility was $7,624,729, of which $3,438,365 was funded under the DOE ARRA grant. We expect to sell our existing 28,000 square foot facility once we complete the relocation of our operations to the new facility this summer. The new facility was acquired to accommodate our planned expansion of high volume manufacturing operations for CODA Automotive's all-electric passenger vehicle program and future growth arising from the expected launch of additional production programs. We also have entered into a marketing collaboration with BorgWarner (NYSE:BWA) on electric powertrain products for all-electric and hybrid electric passenger automobiles. We expect that BorgWarner's global presence will bring a higher level of visibility to our electric propulsion system products and result in additional business opportunities with automobile customers worldwide. We operate our business in two segments: 1) technology - which encompasses advanced research, development and application of our proprietary motors, generators, power electronics and software; and 2) power products - which encompasses the volume manufacturing of motors, generators, power electronic controllers and related products. We were incorporated in the state of Colorado in 1967. The Company's revenue is derived from two principal sources: 1) funded contract research and development services performed for strategic partners, customers and the U.S. government directed toward either the advancement of our proprietary technology portfolio or the application of our proprietary technology to customers' products; and 2) the manufacture and sale of products engineered by us. We have three principal operating companies: 1) UQM Technologies, Inc. which includes the Corporate Headquarters and Engineering and Product Development Center; and 2) wholly-owned subsidiary UQM Power Products, Inc. ("UQM Power") which is an ISO quality certified manufacturer of our products and UQM Properties, Inc. which owns our recently acquired facility in Longmont, Colorado. Each of these operating companies is located in Frederick, Colorado. Technology Our technology base includes a number of proprietary technologies and patents related to brushless permanent magnet motors, generators and power electronic controllers, together with software code to intelligently manage the operation of our systems. The typical architecture of a UQM® electric machine (motor/generator) consists of a stator winding employing a high pole count configuration, which allows for high copper utilization (minimizing energy loss and cost), and a rotor that contains powerful rare earth permanent magnets. The stator is affixed to a housing that includes a mounting cylinder and bearings, which allow the rotor to be suspended within the stator. Commutation of the machine is accomplished electronically by sensing the position of the rotor in relation to the stator and intelligently pulsing electrical energy into the stator such that the electric field generated by the stator interacts with the magnetic field of the rotor, producing rotational motion (motor operation). Conversely, the application of rotational motion by an external force results in the generation of electrical power (generator operation). UQM® machines can be operated in either a forward or reverse direction of rotation and either in motor or generator mode and can dynamically change from one mode of operation to another in millisecond response time. The design features inherent to the electric machine contribute to lower usage of copper, iron and other materials generally (due to smaller package dimensions), reducing manufacturing costs compared to conventional machines of similar power. In addition, the utilization of the rare earth magnet chemistry, neodymium-iron-boron (NdFeB), in a wide-range of consumer devices such as cell phones, disk drives and medical devices, has dramatically improved the availability, performance and price of this material. This has allowed us to price our advanced motors and controls competitively with lesser performing conventional motors and controls, which we believe will accelerate the rate of commercialization of our technology. Attributes of our permanent magnet motor/generator technology include brushless electronic commutation, a relatively large air-gap dimension (useful for hybrid electric applications where the motor is integrated with an engine or transmission), good heat rejection, minimized NdFeB magnet, iron and copper content, and low mechanical losses. As a result, UQM® machines have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. The electromagnetic design of our machines incorporates parameters that are compatible with software control algorithms described in a later section. These parameters are essential to achieve optimized output and efficiency; i.e., the machine design and software work together to create performance advantages that are not possible without the combination. Attributes of our microprocessor-based digital power electronic controllers include high power operation (up to 600 amps at 400 volts), four-quadrant control (forward/reverse and motoring/generating), reduced switching losses relative to conventional technology, adaptive switch timing control and controller area network ("CAN") capability. As a result, UQM® controllers have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. The UQM® embedded digital signal processor (DSP) software is the intelligence that coordinates the interaction between the motor/generator and controller, as well as interfacing with a vehicle controller. Software control algorithms are an important part of the Company's intellectual property portfolio. One aspect of the software is a patented method of control referred to as Phase Timing Advancement that enables UQM® motors to deliver both high output torque at low operating speeds and high power at increasing operating speeds. We have extended the capability of Phase Advance Control by using Adaptive Control techniques. These proprietary software algorithms alter the switching strategy as a function of DC voltage, operating speed, output power and temperature to optimize system performance under dynamically changing conditions. The result is maximized output and efficiency that decreases fuel consumption in hybrid electric vehicles and increases the range of battery electric vehicles. The Company's software also optimizes the output per unit of voltage and current, maximizing the utilization of the onboard stored energy and other electrical devices by extracting power from substantially the entire electrical cycle of the motor/generator. The development and application of these proprietary control algorithms have allowed us to continue increasing the peak and continuous power output and the efficiency of our systems. In addition, our controllers now have user configurable functionality and increased data transmission speeds and response times, improving vehicle capability. Included in this functionality is the ability to switch between torque, speed, and voltage control dynamically, which is especially useful for parallel hybrids and generator applications of our technology. For vehicle developers, our Graphical User Interface provides the means to tailor UQM® systems to create the desired driving experience. Conventional permanent magnet motor designs are limited to operating at high torque and low speeds, sacrificing highway power, or low torque and high speeds, sacrificing acceleration and hill climbing ability. Desired propulsion attributes consist of high torque to launch the vehicle from a standing-stop, with a subsequent transition to high power as the vehicle is accelerated to highway speeds. In the majority of conventional internal combustion engine powered vehicles, the transition from high torque to high power is accomplished through the multiple gear changes performed by a mechanical transmission. UQMeg; systems, incorporating proprietary DSP software technology as described above, are suited as propulsion drives in electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles due to their ability to power a vehicle from a standing-stop to highway speeds without mechanical gear changes, thereby eliminating the size, weight, complexity and cost of mechanical transmissions. The ability to provide both high torque and high top speed creates additional advantages in military vehicles. High torque at low speed translates into obstacle and grade climbing capability that is more challenging in an off-road environment, while high speed enables pursuit, dash and evasive maneuvers as well as convoy transport. Conventional propulsion systems meet the high torque and high road speed requirements by using a transmission and additional gearing beyond that used for commercial vehicles. UQM's performance has proven to address the requirements of military and off-road vehicles with simplified transmissions, providing opportunities in these markets. We have also developed auxiliary electronic products that support systems unrelated to propulsion. We currently manufacture proprietary DC-to-DC converters that convert energy from 250 volt to 450 volt vehicle battery packs to 12 volts to power lower voltage devices onboard these vehicles. We have also recently developed a high voltage DC-to-AC inverter with output efficiencies of up to 93 percent for use within electrified vehicles. Our inverters convert DC power stored in vehicle battery packs with nominal operating voltages of 340 volts DC to high quality 110 volt AC power. During fiscal year 2010, we were granted a new US patent that relates to the Company's motor/generator technology. U.S. Patent No. 7,598,645 is titled Stress Distributing Permanent Magnet Rotor Geometry for Electric Machines. This technology covers machine geometry that incorporates two methods of torque production in a way that optimizes the electromagnetic and mechanical performance of the machine. These two methods are referred to as magnet and reluctance torque. Centrifugal forces internal to the rotor are distributed to the strongest sections of the rotor steel, allowing the weaker sections to be electromagnetically optimized for greater reluctance torque contribution. The result is higher output torque and higher top speed, which fits UQM's ongoing effort to address the performance of both commercial and military vehicle applications. We have three U.S. patent applications pending related to new technology: two that relate to electric machines and the other related to inverters. We are also performing internally funded research and development to continually improve the functionality of the microprocessor software we use to intelligently control our motor/controller system. These enhancements include the following: additional user-selectable and adaptive algorithms that optimize system operation as a function of vehicle-level variables, refined generator voltage regulation to facilitate improved voltage and battery pack management, and further improvements in system efficiency and power output through advances in motor control algorithms. For electric machines, the U.S. Navy has awarded us a contract to apply and extend our recently patented motor technology within shipboard auxiliary applications, beginning with valve actuators. For controllers, UQM is working to obtain funding to continue work that is directed toward the development of high temperature power switching devices using silicon carbide. The majority of our research and development activities are the result of projects contracted with and funded by customers, for which we typically retain intellectual property rights in the resulting technology developed. Customer funded development activities are recorded in our financial statements as contract services revenue and the associated development costs are shown as costs of contract services. Internally-funded research and development expenditures are charged to research and development expense when incurred. In recent years, we have focused our research and development activities on the development of commercial products and production engineering activities to lower the cost of manufacture, as well as enhance the performance and capability of our systems, as opposed to basic research in the field. We believe our future growth is dependent, in part, on the continued advancement of our technology portfolio and our ability to commercialize our technology in additional product applications and markets. Accordingly, we expect to continue to pursue additional customer funded programs and to selectively invest in internally funded development projects to accomplish these objectives. CODA Automotive Program In June 2009 we entered into a ten year Supply Agreement with CODA Automotive to supply UQM® PowerPhase® electric propulsion systems to CODA Automotive's production partner, HaFei. Initial shipments of production systems under the agreement are expected to begin later this calendar year and ramp up prior to scheduled deliveries of CODA's full performance all-electric four-door sedan in the California market in the fall of 2010. CODA hopes to sell 14,000 vehicles in calendar year 2011 reaching an annual run rate of 20,000 vehicles, which, if achieved, would result in annual revenue to us well in excess of $50 million. The CODA all-electric sedan was developed by CODA's internal team of engineers working with multiple external engineering partners, including Porsche Engineering. The vehicle is propelled by a 100 kW UQM® PowerPhase® electric propulsion system and is expected to carry a 5-star crash worthiness rating and sell in the mid $30,000s after a $7,500 Federal tax credit. Powered by a 33.8 kWh lithium-ion battery, the vehicle is expected to have a range between charges of 90 to 120 miles depending on individual driving habits. The onboard charger plugs into a 110V or a 220V outlet and can charge for a 40-mile commute in approximately two hours (full charge in less than six hours) at 220V. The CODA electric sedan chassis will be assembled and tested, incorporating the UQM® power-train on an existing large-scale assembly line operated by HaFei. Hafei is one of the premier production and R&D companies in China and is China's third largest automobile manufacturer. Hafei has over 575,000 square meters of production facilities and 11,000 employees. CODA announced that the battery system is being supplied by a joint venture between CODA Automotive and Tianjin Lishen Battery Co. ("Lishen"). Lishen is one of the world's largest manufacturers of lithium-ion cells and a key supplier to Apple, Motorola, Samsung and Vodafone, among others. In March 2010, the CODA-Lishen joint venture announced that it had secured $100 million in committed equity capital and received a commitment for a $294 million line of credit from the Bank of Tianjin Joint-Stock Co., Ltd. CODA is working to establish U.S. based manufacturing of their joint venture batteries. We understand that CODA is also working to establish final vehicle assembly in Southern California where at a minimum the battery system would be installed in the chassis produced by Hafei. It is likely, that over time, the UQM propulsion system and other US- sourced components would be assembled into the vehicle in Southern California, rather than China. CODA advertises that the CODA sedan is backed by a three-year/36,000 mile warranty and an eight-year/100,000 mile battery warranty. CODA Automotive states its strategy is to design, brand, market and distribute electric vehicles utilizing manufacturing partnerships which allow it to develop vehicles rapidly in a flexible manner - avoiding the traditionally capital-intensive nature of the automobile business. CODA expects to employ a direct distribution model, with initial sales of the all-electric sedan commencing in the late fall of 2010 in California. CODA plans to have vehicle maintenance and service performed through an outsourced network comprised of brand name car service partners. CODA Automotive has announced that to date it has raised $125 million in capital to facilitate the execution of its business plan. Other announced suppliers to the CODA program include: Continental (electronic stability control); Delphi (DC to DC converter and electric power steering); BorgWarner (transaxle); Hella (electric vacuum pump); Energy CS (battery management system); Lear (battery charger); OMITEC (main controller); and Mitsubishi (electric AC compressor). U.S. Department of Energy Stimulus Grant On January 13, 2010 (the "Grant Date"), we executed an Assistance Agreement (the "Agreement") for a $45,145,534 grant (the "Grant") with the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the "Stimulus Act"). The Grant provides funds to facilitate the manufacture and deployment of electric drive vehicles, batteries and electric drive vehicle components in the United States. We were one of seven component manufacturers selected for an award and the only small business under the component category. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the DOE will reimburse us for 50 percent of qualifying costs incurred on or after August 5, 2009 for the purchase of facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment, and for engineering related to product qualification and testing of our electric propulsion systems and other products. The period of the Grant is through January 12, 2013. The $45.1 million size of the Grant is based on the estimated cost of a project to implement high volume manufacturing operations provided in our application to the DOE under the Electric Drive Vehicle Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative. Funding for qualifying project costs incurred during the period commencing August 5, 2009 through June 26, 2010 is initially limited to $8.1 million until the following conditions are satisfied: 1) review and approval of our accounting system by the DCAA; and 2) mutual agreement by the parties on an updated total estimated cost of the project. In the event either condition is not satisfied by June 26, 2010, the Grant may be terminated. In addition, we are required, no later than January 12, 2011, to provide the DOE with an additional updated total estimated cost of the project along with evidence of firm commitments for our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project. If all such funds have not been secured, we must submit, by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE. The Grant is also subject to our compliance with certain reporting requirements. As specified in the Act, we are required to use the Grant funds in a manner that maximizes job creation and economic benefits. The Stimulus Act and the Agreement impose minimum construction wages and labor standards for projects funded by the Grant and some sourcing restrictions. If we dispose of assets acquired using Grant funding, we may be required to reimburse the DOE upon such sale date if the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition exceeds $5,000. The amount of any such reimbursement shall be equal to 50 percent of the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition. While UQM has exclusive patent ownership rights for any technology developed with Grant funds, we are required to grant the DOE a non-exclusive, non-transferable, paid-up license to use such technology. The Grant has numerous benefits to the Company and its shareholders including: 1) substantially reducing the Company's cost of capital; 2) substantially mitigating the financial risk of facilitizing to manufacture products for an emerging market; 3) substantially reducing product qualification and testing costs; and 4) improving product margins on products manufactured on equipment subsidized by the Grant. At March 31, 2010 we had received reimbursements from the DOE under the Grant for facilities and equipment totaling $3.6 million and had approximately $1.6 million of contingently reimbursable engineering costs related to product qualification and testing which we expect to receive in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Further, we expect to record in the quarter that the contingency is removed, a reduction of expense of a corresponding amount. Manufacturing It is our primary objective to become a major manufacturer of electric motor, generator and other power electronic products that incorporate our proprietary technology and to supply these products to electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicle manufacturers and/or their Tier 1 suppliers. To this end, in December 2009 we acquired a 129,304 square foot facility on a 30 acre site in Longmont, Colorado to support our expected growth in manufacturing operations. We are in the process of establishing semi-automated production cells at this facility with the capacity to produce 20,000 units per shift of our automotive qualified 100 kW PowerPhase® electric motor and motor controller for the CODA program. We expect to have these cells in operation in August 2010 to support the launch of the CODA program later this year. We expect to add additional production capacity in this facility coincident with future demand. We currently manufacture a truck qualified DC-to-DC converter for Eaton Corporation as part of their hybrid electric power system for the heavy truck market, as well as for other electric and hybrid electric vehicle manufacturers. We have a dedicated manufacturing cell for these electronic boxes that includes the robotic application of sealant, sixteen hours of burn-in cycling between hot and cold temperature extremes, pressure testing for cooling leaks and complete functional testing. We also have a production cell for the assembly of our larger frame size, higher power lower volume prototype motors. The annual capacity of this cell is approximately 5,000 systems per shift per year. The foregoing products are currently manufactured at our 28,000 square foot ISO 9001:2000 quality certified facility in Frederick, Colorado. We expect to relocate all of our manufacturing operations to our new facility over the next three months. After completion of the relocation, we expect to sell our existing manufacturing facility. Over the last several years we have established a production engineering group with decades of manufacturing design and production experience, much of which is specific to the automotive industry. Today, this team consists of nearly twenty professionals. In the last two years we have made significant improvements in manufacturing systems, facilities and space utilization and we have adopted the Advanced Product Quality Planning ("APQP") automotive procedures. In order to ensure our cost competitiveness, we have adopted a manufacturing strategy for the near term of designing all product components and then sourcing these parts with quality suppliers. Final assembly, testing, pack-out and shipping of the product is performed at our Colorado facility. We have established relationships with many high-quality, low-cost suppliers, including a number of international companies. Future plans are to continue the development and introduction of more advanced and automated manufacturing systems which we believe will ensure our competitiveness in new and emerging markets. We are primarily focused on launching high volume production of electric propulsions systems for CODA and potentially other electric and hybrid electric vehicle customers. We believe that the Company is well positioned to leverage its technology and pursue and win additional high volume production programs with major automotive, truck, bus and military vehicle OEMs and/or their Tier 1 suppliers. Emerging Markets Potentially large markets are developing as a result of the electrification of a wide-range of vehicle platforms. The electrification of vehicles is being pursued for a variety of application specific reasons including: 1) improved fuel economy, 2) lower vehicle emissions, 3) greater reliability and lower maintenance, 4) the need for higher levels of available onboard electric power to run electrical devices, and 5) improved performance and vehicle control. Of these reasons, improved fuel economy has emerged as a significant factor in the development and potential rate of growth of the emerging vehicle electrification markets as crude oil prices are expected to resume their rise, and consumers and businesses alike have to contend with higher gasoline and diesel prices. This trend toward higher fuel prices is expected to continue for the foreseeable future, driven by tight supply levels, geopolitical turmoil in key oil producing countries and expected future increases in world demand, driven principally by escalating consumption of fossil fuels by developing countries such as China and India. In addition, government regulations mandating reductions in pollutants from diesel engines are expected to further accelerate the trend toward electrification as increasingly stringent regulations continue. Further, Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards recently received their first overhaul in more than 30 years. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 requires, in part, that automakers boost fleetwide gas mileage to 35 mpg by the year 2020. This requirement applies to all passenger automobiles, including "light trucks." Other recent government legislation, including the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, encourage the development and introduction of environmentally friendly vehicles. A partial listing of some of the more notable provisions of this legislation includes: Tax credits for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles Low cost loans to manufacturers and component suppliers to purchase infrastructure and develop manufacturing capacity for clean vehicles and components used in these vehicles Funding for government agencies to acquire environmentally friendly vehicles Grants for the development of clean vehicles and clean vehicle component technology Grants for the development of a "smart" electric grid The electrification of conventional vehicles, ranging from passenger vehicles and over-the-road trucks, to off-road vehicles such as agricultural tractors, construction equipment and military vehicles, can potentially offer improvements in fuel economy and emissions. Today, nearly all conventional vehicles are powered by a gasoline or diesel fueled internal combustion engine that converts the energy stored in the fuel to rotating power out of the engine. The power out of the engine's rotating shaft is used to propel the vehicle and operate all of the vehicles auxiliaries either directly with belts, pulleys and gears or indirectly through electricity generated from a belted alternator. Internal combustion engines are relatively inefficient, typically converting only 25 to 35 percent of the input energy in the fuel to the output shaft to do useful work. The remaining 65 to 75 percent of the input energy is wasted by the engine as heat loss. Electric motors on the other hand, are much more efficient in converting input electric energy to the rotating shaft to do useful work. UQM® electric propulsion systems have some of the highest efficiencies (input energy to output work) in the industry ranging from 80 to 95 percent. The electrification of vehicles can range from simply replacing inefficient belt and gear driven under-the-hood auxiliaries (water pump, power steering, HVAC, cooling fans etc.) with efficient electric powered ones, to eliminating the internal combustion engine entirely and replacing it with full electric propulsion such as in a battery or fuel cell powered vehicle. Generally, as the vehicle power plant content becomes increasingly more electric, the fuel efficiency improves and the cost and complexity increases. With rising fuel prices, vehicle makers are finding it much more feasible to justify this added complexity and cost. We believe that the trend toward increasing electrification of vehicles will continue at an accelerated pace. Accordingly, we have developed and continue to develop, with considerable funding from our customers, electric propulsion systems and other motor and electronic products that will enable our customers to introduce alternative powered vehicles in the markets they serve, should they elect to do so. An expanded description of the different degrees of vehicle electrification follows: Electrification of engine driven auxiliaries - In most existing conventional gasoline and diesel-powered vehicles, under-the-hood components such as water, oil and fuel pumps, power steering systems, cooling fans and air conditioning compressors are powered by engine belts, pulleys and gears. These devices perform their functions very inefficiently and represent a significant load on the engine. Because they are directly connected to the engine, there is no way to independently vary their speed or modulate their power. The electrification of these components provides numerous advantages including: 1) variable speed and power operation which improves efficiency and fuel economy, 2) the ability to locate them strategically anywhere in the vehicle because an electric component does not require proximity to an engine driven belt or gear, 3) improved controllability and reliability and 4) flexible architectures and improved access for service and maintenance. Existing conventional alternators do not provide enough power to electrify the engine driven auxiliaries and must be replaced with a higher power generator. The typical UQM® generator is nearly twice as efficient and provides five times the power of a conventional alternator. In addition, these higher power generators can provide export power to power other on-board or off-board equipment. This electrification strategy is easily adopted because required changes to vehicle design and operation are the least disruptive and can improve vehicle fuel economy by 7 to 15 percent. Parallel hybrids - Parallel hybrid vehicles incorporate an electric motor to join the internal combustion engine in propelling the vehicle. In a low power configuration, often referred to as a "mild hybrid", a starter/motor/generator that is typically integrated into the flywheel of an engine is used to combine three separate functions in one electric machine. The machine starts the engine, eliminating the need for a conventional starter, performs power generation, eliminating a conventional belt driven alternator, and can be run in motoring mode, supplying supplemental power to the driveline to improve acceleration and vehicle performance. Higher power parallel hybrids incorporate additional system features such as regenerative braking and automatic engine shutdown and all-electric propulsion during certain operating conditions. In a typical parallel hybrid vehicle, acceleration from a standing-stop is generally performed by the electric motor in all-electric mode up to a given speed, at which time the engine starts and the engine and electric motor work in parallel to accelerate the vehicle. Once the vehicle achieves highway speed, the motor ceases operation and the vehicle is propelled using the engine only. During braking operations, the motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture energy that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. If the batteries need additional charging, the engine drives the electric machine in generator mode, sending electricity to charge the battery pack. These vehicles have sufficient battery charging capacity to be self-sustaining thereby eliminating the need to plug the vehicle into the electric power grid. Depending on the vehicle's level of electric motive power and its duty cycle, parallel hybrids can achieve fuel economy improvements of 10 to 45 percent. Series hybrids - Series hybrid vehicles contain a greater degree of electrification than parallel hybrids. In a typical series hybrid vehicle, all of the motive power for the vehicle is supplied by electric motors, thereby eliminating conventional driveline components such as the transmission and drive shaft. Generally, series hybrids contain a larger amount of batteries to store electrical energy and the engine's principal function is to turn a separate generator to produce the electrical energy necessary to maintain the state of charge of the onboard battery pack. These onboard engine generators are often referred to as auxiliary power units (APUS) or range extenders. As in a parallel hybrid, during braking operations the electric motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture energy that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. Also, as in the parallel hybrid, a series hybrid vehicle has sufficient battery charging capacity to be self-sustaining, thereby eliminating the need to plug the vehicle into the electric power grid. Because the engine serves as an under-the-hood power plant, series hybrids typically have large amounts of available onboard power to perform additional functions while the vehicle is operating or when it reaches its final destination. Depending on vehicle configuration and duty cycle, series hybrids can achieve fuel economy improvements of 35 to 50 percent. Plug-in hybrids - A plug-in hybrid vehicle can be configured as either a parallel or a series hybrid. What distinguishes this category of hybrid is that it is designed to operate in all-electric only mode for a range of 20 to 40 miles and be charge depleting therefore requiring it to be periodically plugged in and recharged from the electric grid. Because a portion of the energy consumed by a plug-in hybrid vehicle is acquired at a relatively low cost from the electrical grid in addition to the efficiencies obtained from its hybrid configuration, this category of vehicle can achieve fuel economy improvements of 60 to 75 percent. All-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles - All-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles are powered entirely from electric energy stored on board in batteries or generated on board by a fuel cell. In this category of vehicle, all motive power is produced by electric motors and there is no engine and associated fuel, driveline and exhaust components. Similarly, many vehicle functions currently performed by auxiliaries attached to the engine through belts or gears, such as power steering and air conditioning, must be performed using electric motors. As with hybrid electric vehicles, all-electric battery-powered vehicles can switch the electric propulsion motor during braking operations; the electric motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture energy that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. The energy needs of all-electric battery-powered vehicles are obtained by recharging their batteries using the electric power grid. Fuel cells are energy production devices that generate electricity through a chemical reaction resulting from combining hydrogen and oxygen. The by-product of this reaction is water, therefore allowing for the total elimination of vehicle exhaust emissions in this category of vehicle. Because there is no battery energy storage in a fuel cell powered vehicle, there is no opportunity for regenerative braking energy recapture. Fuel economy improvements for all-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles are generally 75 percent or greater. Existing Markets Today there are numerous well-established markets for products that incorporate electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers that are targets for replacement by our advantaged systems. Examples of existing electric vehicle markets that we believe may present opportunities for the commercialization of our proprietary technology include electric wheelchairs, golf carts, forklift trucks and other warehouse vehicles, aircraft tugs and other support equipment, commercial floor cleaning equipment and other similar markets where the product application generally requires high torque and variable speed operation. In addition, there are a multitude of electric auxiliary motors used on conventional vehicles that provide a further opportunity for replacement by our systems. We have developed and commercialized several products for existing markets. These products include a fan blower motor and a compressor drive motor that are used in aircraft air conditioning systems manufactured by Keith Products, Inc., a vehicle auxiliary actuator motor for a product manufactured by Lippert Components, Inc. and an electric brake actuation motor that is used in selected golf carts manufactured by Club Car, Inc. We expect to continue to commercialize both technologically advanced and low cost products that we develop to customer specifications in selected large, established markets. Markets We Serve We have historically focused our resources on the development of highly efficient electric propulsion systems for each category of vehicle described above with power levels of 0.5 kW to 150 kW, which are suitable for vehicles ranging from wheelchairs to passenger automobiles to large trucks, buses, tractors, construction equipment and military vehicles. In addition, we have developed electric motors, generators and electronic controls to power under-the-hood auxiliaries such as water, oil and fuel pumps, power steering, cooling fans and air conditioning compressors. We have also developed DC-to-DC converters that step down high voltage electrical systems to 12 volts and DC-to-AC inverters that convert DC power to consumer friendly 110-volt alternating current power. We are pursuing the commercialization of our technology and products designed by us in numerous large emerging and existing markets where we intend to introduce technologically advanced products or lower cost systems or a combination of both. We believe that our technology and products are well-suited for application in a wide-range of vehicles as the trend toward electrification continues to gain momentum. In this regard, we have focused our attention on several markets where we believe we can most effectively compete and which we expect will have higher than average rates of growth and expansion. A brief description of each of these markets follows: Passenger automobiles and light trucks - In past years, approximately 16 million passenger automobiles and light trucks were sold in the United States each year, although these production levels have declined dramatically over the last year to a current annual rate of approximately 11 million units. Over the last several years a market has developed for automobiles that are powered by hybrid electric powertrains. These vehicles have good performance and provide above average fuel economy compared to conventional automobiles. Several automakers have introduced vehicle models incorporating hybrid electric powertrains including Toyota, Lexus, Nissan, Honda, Ford, Saturn, and General Motors. These automakers to date are using hybrid electric powertrains that they have developed themselves or have acquired from other automakers or existing Tier 1 automotive suppliers. Many of these automobile companies are also developing fuel cell or battery-powered vehicles that they hope to introduce at a future date. Several automakers have also announced plans to introduce all-electric passenger vehicles in the coming years, the most highly publicized of which is Nissan's all-electric Leaf passenger vehicle. We have recently shipped electric and hybrid electric propulsion systems and /or generators to eight international automobile companies for use in vehicle development programs. Of this group, one customer Citroen, has publicly announced that it is testing a Citroen C4 Hybrid Rally Car powered by a UQM® PowerPhase® 125 electric propulsion system and UQM® PowerPhase® 75 generator. In addition to established automakers, there are a variety of small entrepreneurial companies that are developing and hope to commercialize electric, hybrid electric and/or plug-in hybrid electric cars. Although many of these companies lack substantial financial resources and/or significant automobile industry experience, they are pursuing a variety of strategies to introduce these types of automobiles into either niche markets, such as for fleet users or high-end luxury sports car buyers, or the consumer vehicle market generally. Should any of these companies be successful in commercializing their product offerings, it could cause the growth rate of this market to accelerate significantly. These companies are generally using electric or hybrid electric powertrains that they have developed themselves or have been developed by other entrepreneurial companies. We have recently shipped electric and hybrid electric propulsion systems and/or generators to eight of these companies, including CODA Automotive which is launching an all-electric four -door sedan powered by a UQM® PowerPhase® electric propulsion system. See also the "CODA Automotive Program" above. Trucks, Buses and Recreational Vehicles - The U.S. Department of Energy estimated that in 2007, trucks consumed 6.3 million barrels of crude oil per day and they project that by 2030, trucks will consume approximately 55 percent of all crude oil used in transportation, or 10 million barrels of crude oil per day. In recent years, approximately 6 million trucks, buses and other medium and heavy-duty on-road vehicles were sold in the United States each year, although these quantities have declined substantially over the last year. The market for these vehicles is characterized by a large number of suppliers, a wide-range of vehicle designs and configurations, diverse power and performance levels and relatively low production volumes for each model. As a result, the typical truck, bus and other medium and heavy-duty vehicle manufacturer is unlikely to have the technical expertise or financial resources to internally develop components that can compete in emerging markets for increasingly electrified vehicles. Accordingly, we expect these manufacturers to purchase products from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors; generators and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. We are currently supplying an automotive qualified DC-to-DC converter to Eaton Corporation which is used onboard medium and heavy-duty hybrid trucks. We have also developed a DC-to-AC inverter that we expect to sell into the truck market to meet the growing onboard and export power requirements of hybrid trucks. Some medium and heavy-duty hybrid electric trucks manufactured by customers of Eaton currently have our DC-to-DC converter on board. We expect the medium and heavy-duty hybrid electric truck market to grow at an accelerating rate as potential customers for these vehicles gain a greater understanding of their operational, environmental and economic advantages. In addition to our supplier relationship with Eaton, we have been and expect to continue to be in discussion with truck OEMs regarding potential niche vehicle programs. We have supplied electric and hybrid electric propulsion systems to a number of truck manufacturers including ZeroTruck™ and Electric Vehicle International for all-electric medium-duty delivery trucks. The ZeroTruck7trade; is available on the GSA schedule for purchase by government agencies. Also, several truck manufacturers are considering other electrically-based products that either enhance the utility of their vehicles, such as the ability to generate large amounts of exportable electric power, or that may be necessary to meet regulatory mandates, such as diesel engine emission standards and restrictions on emissions arising from diesel engine idling. These products include electric propulsion systems, higher power engine generators, electric auxiliaries and DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters. We intend to continue to aggressively pursue the commercialization of our products for these and other applications in the market for electric and hybrid trucks as it emerges over the next several years. We are also involved in a number of bus programs. Over the last several years we have supplied generators and motor controllers to the Denver Regional Transportation District (RTD) for its fleet of thirty-six MallRide hybrid electric shuttle buses, the first large-scale deployment of hybrid electric buses for use in the United States. The 45-foot MallRide hybrid electric shuttles operate on the 16th Street Mall in downtown Denver, providing a free ride for passengers across the 1.3 mile long 16th Street Mall. We also are the propulsion system supplier for electric buses being developed and produced by Proterra LLC, Golden, Colorado. The 37-foot composite body bus is being developed in both an all-electric battery and plug-in hybrid configuration. Proterra recently announced their plans to build a 200,000 square foot bus manufacturing facility in South Carolina. There are a variety of specialty on-road manufacturers of conventional vehicles who represent an opportunity for us to further expand the deployment of our products, and we intend to continue to pursue the commercialization of our products for these applications. Off-road vehicles - There are a wide-range of off-road vehicles sold in the United States each year. These vehicles range from small - wheelchairs, golf carts, fork trucks, riding lawn mowers, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, etc., - to large construction, agricultural and mining equipment. The markets for small vehicles are typically characterized by relatively high volumes, low power levels and commodity pricing. We expect to continue to compete selectively in small off-road vehicle markets where the customer requires advanced technology or superior performance and where acceptable gross profit margins are obtainable. The market for large equipment - tractors, construction, mining and other specialty equipment - possesses many of the same characteristics as the over-the-road truck market described above. In recent years, it is estimated that approximately 500,000 of these vehicles were sold in the United States annually. Accordingly, we expect these vehicle manufacturers to purchase products with similar specifications as those required in the over-the-road truck and bus markets from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. Although these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, they nevertheless represent a substantial opportunity due to higher power levels, substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. We have provided systems to several large off-road vehicle developers for both electric propulsion and under-the-hood auxiliary applications. We have also developed electric power products for the aircraft and aerospace market and the boat and marine market. In the aerospace market, we have developed electric auxiliary motors and controllers used in aircraft air conditioning systems. We have also developed auxiliary power units for the generation of onboard power and propulsion systems for various boat applications. We believe that some of the fuel efficiency benefits of vehicle electrification can be realized in the boat and marine market. Although our focus is primarily on land applications, we will continue to leverage our technology and products in these potentially large niche markets as opportunities present themselves. Military vehicles - The U.S. military purchases a wide-range of ground vehicles each year including combat vehicles such as tanks, self-propelled artillery and armored personnel carriers, as well as a variety of light, medium and heavy-duty trucks for convoy and supply operations and for the transport of fuel used on the battlefield. The military is particularly interested in the electrification of vehicles because the attributes that these vehicles possess offer exceptional potential for the military to achieve its long-term objectives of developing a highly mobile, lethal fighting force. Fuel economy improvements in military vehicles transfer into substantial savings in support infrastructure and transportation costs associated with transporting fuel to the battlefield, which is typically thousands of miles from the United States. For example, if fuel economy improvements of 25 percent are achieved in the average truck, a corresponding amount of fuel does not have to be transported and therefore a corresponding number of airplanes or tankers are not required in the transportation process. Also, the availability of onboard electrical power on military vehicles opens up new opportunities for the development of sophisticated surveillance, detection and battlefield monitoring equipment and for laser, microwave and electrical pulse weapon systems. It is estimated that the military purchases approximately 8,000 trucks per year and greater numbers during periods of armed conflict. As is the case with large off-road equipment, these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, operate at higher power levels, have substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. We have, over the last several years, been working with a number of military contractors and vehicle makers including DRS Technologies, AM General, BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics and others, on prototype hybrid electric vehicles, high export power generators, electric auxiliaries, DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters. Although this market has not yet emerged, we believe that it may begin to soon, driven by the availability of hybrid electric components in the commercial truck market that operate at similar power levels as those required by many military vehicles. Vehicle to Grid Systems - There is also a developing industry initiative termed "vehicle-to-grid", or "V-to-G", to potentially make available for use on the electric utility grid, the large amount of energy in battery electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. Under this initiative, protocols, guidelines and electronic and software technologies are being developed to allow for the intelligent transfer of electric power from these vehicles to the electric power grid. There are different versions of the vehicle-to-grid concept: 1) A hybrid or fuel cell vehicle, which generates power from storable fuel, uses its generator to produce power for a utility at peak electricity usage times. Here the vehicles serve as a distributed power generation system; and 2) A battery-powered or hybrid vehicle which uses its excess rechargeable battery capacity to provide power to the electric grid during peak load times. These vehicles can then be recharged during off-peak hours at cheaper rates while helping to absorb excess nighttime generation. Here the vehicles serve as a distributed battery storage system to buffer power. The V-to-G concept allows such vehicles to provide power to help load balance (valley fill and peak shave) localized grid segments during peak load periods when the selling price of electricity can be very high, and to buffer electricity, including in power outages. We are currently developing inverter technology that we expect will be capable of functioning in this dynamic energy transfer environment when, and if, it develops into a commercial opportunity. Marketing We market our products in a variety of different ways depending on the end market and the complexity of the product. The majority of our opportunities come from customers who contact us directly as a result of our reputation, advertising, trade show attendance, web site or customer/partner word of mouth recommendations. In the emerging markets for clean vehicles we market through the following channels: Direct Sales Vehicle Integrators - This marketing channel is characterized by the development of a relationship with companies that perform contract services for vehicle makers worldwide. Many of these companies have substantial autonomy to source vehicle components at the earliest stages of a vehicle development program. Through our multi-year relationships of supplying many of these companies with our products, we have been able to develop and foster within their organizations a confidence in the performance characteristics, ease of application and durability of our products that have led to additional early stage placements of our products in automakers vehicle development programs. Cooperative Marketing Arrangements - These arrangements typically are characterized by nonexclusive marketing cooperation with other vehicle component developers and manufacturers where marketing partners introduce UQM® products to prospective customers who are considering a component being sold by our marketing partner and vice versa. For example, we currently have an active cooperative marketing arrangement with BorgWarner, who has developed a transaxle for all-electric and hybrid vehicles that is matched to our PowerPhase® 100 kW propulsion motor. In existing markets, we identify potential opportunities primarily through the efforts of our National Sales Manager who seeks to identify motor and electronic product applications where our technology can reduce the size, enhance the performance or improve the efficiency or a combination of the foregoing at price points the same as or better than the prospective customers current supplier. Funded development projects are typically secured through a technical selling process that encompasses the submission of an engineering proposal by our engineering staff in response to a request for proposal or from other methods designed to find and identify customer funded development opportunities within our area of expertise. Our Opportunity We have developed a range of products including electric propulsion motors, generators, power electronic controllers and other power electronic products that we believe are ideally suited to the emerging markets for electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. Hybrid electric passenger vehicle sales have grown substantially since their introduction in the North American market in 2000, with over one million units being sold. As a result, the fuel economy and emission benefits of hybrid electric technology are broadly understood by consumers worldwide. This, in concert with $25 billion of potential government grants and loans for the manufacture of clean vehicles under the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program, $2.4 billion of grants under the ARRA's Electric Drive Vehicle Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative (under which we received a $45.1 million award), higher oil prices, tax credits for hybrid electric vehicle purchasers, stricter government emission regulations and growing environmental consciousness, has generated market demand for this class of vehicle. Until recently, passenger vehicle makers have elected to develop their own electric and hybrid electric systems and components, either individually or in cooperation with Tier 1 automotive suppliers; however, we have supplied our propulsion systems to numerous international automotive manufacturers as part of their electric and hybrid electric vehicle development activities over the last eighteen months. Should any of these automakers elect to utilize our products in future model launches, it would have a material impact on our future rate of growth. We believe that the launch of high volume manufacturing of our PowerPhase® 100 kW electric propulsion system for CODA Automotive later this calendar year will give us a substantial "first mover" advantage as a Tier 1 supplier to the clean vehicle market. Specifically, the introduction of our products that have been fully automotive qualified in commercial quantities will provide substantial economies of scale, permitting us to achieve production costs and pricing that will be difficult for others who have not launched similar high volume production to compete with. We expect that this pricing and product availability advantage will allow us to further expand the roster of automobile makers who select our propulsion systems for there future vehicle programs. In addition to the passenger automobile market, vehicle makers of all types have been evaluating the potential of applying electric and hybrid electric technology to their vehicle platforms. Of these manufacturers, medium and heavy-duty truck and bus builders and military manufacturers have been the most active, driven by the performance and fuel economy advantages available from this technology, the availability of large amounts of onboard and exportable power and stricter diesel emission mandates. International Truck and Engine Corporation, a Navistar Company, currently offers for sale a diesel electric medium-duty truck, the International® DuraStar™ Hybrid. Similarly, Peterbilt Motors Company, a division of PACCAR Inc., offers for sale its Model 330 and Model 335 medium-duty hybrid electric trucks, and Freightliner Trucks, a division of Daimler Trucks North America LLC has introduced its Business Class® M2e hybrid electric Truck. All of these truck manufacturers use the Eaton Corporation hybrid electric system. Our automotive certified DC-to-DC converter which we manufacture for Eaton Corporation is installed on many of these hybrid trucks. We believe that these industry developments signal the beginning of a potentially large-scale deployment of electric propulsion and related electronic products into markets other than mass-market passenger automobiles. Should these products receive broad customer acceptance, as we expect they will, additional opportunities will likely develop over time for our company. The operating characteristics of electric motors for vehicle propulsion are different from those of more conventional industrial motors. Propulsion motors ideally deliver high levels of torque efficiently at slow rotational speeds and possess the ability to transition from high torque to high speed over a relatively constant power curve allowing, in many cases, the elimination of conventional transmissions. Our proprietary propulsion systems have been specifically developed for these applications and deliver exceptional torque and high rotational speeds in a compact, energy efficient machine. We believe that our portfolio of propulsion motors, generators, power electronic controllers and related electronic products has well positioned our company to compete effectively in these emerging markets. Electric and hybrid electric vehicle makers to-date have generally adopted a 340-volt electrical system to deliver the energy from the battery pack to the electric components and vice versa. Conventional gasoline vehicles generally have a 12-volt electrical system that operates dashboard instruments, lights, horns, etc. The higher electrical system voltages of electric and hybrid vehicles are creating opportunities for companies such as ours to enter the automotive market with a wide-range of under-the-hood auxiliaries including generators and motors to drive water, oil and power steering pumps, air conditioning compressors, and cooling fans, that operate at the new higher voltage. We are currently investing substantial amounts of human resource and capital on establishing the manufacturing infrastructure to meet CODA Automotive's requirements as well as the potential production requirements of our other existing and future customers. As the markets for our customers' clean vehicles expand, we expect to make additional investments in support of our strategy to aggressively introduce automotive certified products to satisfy our customers' requirements. We also expect to experience potentially rapid growth in our revenue coincident with the introduction of electric products by our customers. In parallel to these activities in emerging markets, we expect to continue to pursue additional production opportunities for our proprietary technology in existing markets where the performance of our products can provide our customers with a competitive advantage in the markets they serve. Business Segments At March 31, 2010, we had two reportable segments. These reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services and are managed separately because of their different business strategies. Technology Segment Our technology segment encompasses the operations of our Engineering and Product Development Group. The Engineering and Product Development Group is equipped with research and development laboratories, prototype build and test facilities for electric motors, generators, power electronic controllers, software, and vehicle integration activities. In addition, we currently lease 6,000 square feet in a nearby facility where we perform vehicle integration activities. The technology segment conducts customer funded and internally-funded research and engineering activities directed toward: 1) the development of new motors, generators, and power electronic controllers to meet the requirements of customers' specific product applications; 2) integration of our motors, generators and power electronic controllers into customers' products; and 3) support of our power products segment and the low volume manufacture of motors, generators and power electronic controllers. Power Products Segment Our power products segment encompasses the operations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, UQM Power. UQM Power is the manufacturer of our proprietary products in higher volumes. UQM Power is an ISO 9001:2000 quality certified manufacturer of motors and electronic products designed by the company. Competition All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets served by the technology segment are additionally characterized by rapid changes due to technological advances that can render existing technologies and products obsolete. The technology segment has developed advanced electric propulsion systems and components which we hope to market to vehicle OEMs and their Tier 1 suppliers throughout the world for use in electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. In recent years, the market for hybrid electric automobiles has begun to emerge, led by the introduction and market success of hybrid electric vehicles manufactured by Toyota, Lexus, Honda, Ford and General Motors. In the larger vehicle markets, International Truck and Engine Corporation, Freightliner Trucks and Peterbilt Motors Company offer hybrid electric medium-duty trucks and Caterpillar, Inc. produces a belt-less engine/electric tracked bulldozer. As a result, additional vehicle makers in both on-road and off-road markets are expected to develop and introduce a variety of hybrid electric and all-electric vehicles as the market acceptance of these vehicles continues to grow. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or any other market that now exists or may develop in the future. There are numerous companies developing products that do or soon will compete with our systems. Some of these companies possess significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources than we do, including established supply arrangements and volume manufacturing operations. We believe our principal competitors include Toyota, Honda, General Motors, Hitachi, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi, Danaher, Enova, Continental, Magna, Remy, Bosh and Azure Dynamics. The power products segment competes primarily in the automotive, heavy equipment, military, aerospace and medical products industries. Each of these industries is extremely competitive. We face substantial competition on a continuing basis from numerous companies, many of whom possess longer operating histories, significantly greater financial resources and marketing, distribution and manufacturing capability. We believe our principal competitors include Advanced DC Motors, General Electric, Rockwell International, Hitachi, Hyundai, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi, Danaher, L-3 Communications, Enova, Continental, Magna, Remy, Bosh and Azure Dynamics. Patents We hold several groups or families of patents. U.S. Patent Nos. 5,311,092 and 5,319,844 disclose and claim a lightweight high-power electromagnetic transducer and method of making the same. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,592,731 and U.S. Patent No. 5,382,859 relate to a stator for high-power density electric motors and generators, and a method of constructing the same. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,677,605 discloses and claims a brushless motor and drive system using phase timing advancement. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,982,063 discloses and claims an electric motor having an internal brake. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 6,522,130 discloses and claims a method for controlling a brushless electric motor having a rotor, and relates to an accurate method for sensing rotor position and detecting rotational speed over a broad range of speeds. U.S. Patent No. 6,693,422 is a related U.S. patent entitled "Accurate Rotor Position Sensor and Method Using Magnet and Sensors Mounted Adjacent to the Magnet and Motor". Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. In 2007, we filed patent applications for a stator design in the United States, Canada, and Europe. These applications are currently pending. In 2007, we filed patent applications for a permanent magnet rotor geometry for permanent magnet electric motors in the United States, Canada, and Europe. The United States application issued as U.S. Patent No. 7,598,645. The Canadian and European applications are currently pending. In January 2009, we filed a U.S. patent application for a distributed generation power system having an integrated electric utility meter and inverter system, including the physical design, placement and interconnection of the integrated electric utility and inverter system. In November 2009, we filed a US patent application for a rotor for a permanent magnet electric machine. This application is pending. We may file corresponding applications for this invention in one or more foreign countries. In 1994, we executed an agreement with Alcan Aluminium Limited ("Alcan") in which Alcan assigned to us all of its rights, title and interests in certain motor technology developed under a program funded by Alcan. This agreement further provides that we shall pay to Alcan royalties of one-half of one percent on revenue derived from the manufacture and sale of products or processes embodying the related technology. Royalty payments under this agreement for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were $25,349, $39,850 and $32,988, respectively. We also intend to rely on the unpatented proprietary know-how we have developed and now utilize in our products. We cannot provide assurance that others will not independently develop, acquire or obtain access to our technology. Although we protect our unpatented proprietary rights by executing confidentiality agreements with our management, employees and others with access to our technology, these measures may not be adequate to protect us from disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Trademarks We have registered the letters "UQM" in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Counterpart applications have been filed in numerous countries throughout the world, most of which have granted registrations or indicated them to be allowable. We own three U.S. Trademark Registrations for "UQM" (International Class 7 for power transducers, Class 12 for utility land vehicles, and Class 16 for publications). The foreign trademark registrations and applications include major markets where we are doing business or establishing business contacts. We have also registered the trademark "POWERPHASE" which we use in conjunction with certain of our propulsion systems. The trademark is registered in the European Community and several other foreign countries. Backlog Our technology segment had unperformed service contracts from customers, which will provide future revenue upon completion totaling approximately $1.1 million, and an order backlog for prototype motors and controllers of approximately $1.9 million at April 30, 2010, compared to $0.7 million and $2.0 million, respectively at April 30, 2009. All such service contracts are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to complete all unperformed service contracts over the next fourteen months and ship motor and controller backlog products over the next twelve months. Our power products segment had an order backlog of approximately $3.1 million at April 30, 2010 compared to $3.0 million at April 30, 2009. Many orders are issued to us as blanket purchase orders subject to the issuance of subsequent release orders which direct the number and timing of actual deliveries. Substantially all of the backlog amounts at April 30, 2010 and 2009 are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to ship all backlog products within the next twelve months. Customers and Suppliers We have historically derived significant revenue from a few key customers. Revenue from Lippert Components, Inc., which is also a customer of our power products segment, was $821,509, $635,144, and $1,271,502 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing 9.5 percent, 7.3 percent and 16.9 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented 17.4 percent and nil of consolidated total accounts receivable at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for Lippert Components, Inc. were 6.8 percent and 26.7 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenue from the Denver Regional Transportation District, which is a customer of our Power Products segment, was $82,976, $3,337, and $864,540 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively; representing 1.0 percent, nil, and 11.5 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented 0.9 percent and nil of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We did not have any raw materials, work-in-process or finished goods inventory for the Denver Regional Transportation District at March 31, 2010 and 2009. Revenue from Quantum Fuel Systems Technologies Worldwide Inc., which is also a customer of our power products segment, was $13,115, $1,360,909, and $256,393 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing 0.2 percent, 15.6 percent, and 3.4 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented 2.6 percent and 15.8 percent of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We did not have any raw materials, work-in-process or finished goods inventory for Quantum Fuel Systems Technologies Worldwide Inc. at March 31, 2010 and 2009. When we begin delivery of electric propulsion systems to CODA under our ten year supply agreement, currently projected for late 2010, CODA is expected to become a significant customer. Principal raw materials and components purchased by us include iron, steel, electronic components, magnets and copper wire. Most of these items are available from several suppliers. Certain components used by us are custom designs and if our current supplier no longer made them available to us, we could experience production delays. U.S. Government Contracts Revenue derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government and from subcontracts with U.S. Government prime contractors was $2,488,321, or approximately 28.6 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2010, $1,989,872 or approximately 22.8 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2009 and $2,329,248, or approximately 31.0 percent of consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2008. Accounts receivable from government-funded contracts represented 7.6 percent and 5.6 percent of total accounts receivable as of March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of these amounts, revenue derived from subcontracts with AM General LLC totaled $1,807,063, $434,181 and $565,663 which represented 20.8 percent, 5.0 percent and 7.5 percent of our consolidated total revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This customer also represented 7.6 percent and nil of consolidated total accounts receivable at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for AM General LLC were 12.8 percent and 2.7 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Some of our business with the U.S. Government was performed on a cost plus fixed fee basis. These contracts provide for reimbursement of costs, to the extent allocable and allowable under applicable regulations, and payment of a fee. Certain other contracts with the U.S. Government provide for the reimbursement of costs on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis based on not-to-exceed billing rates negotiated between the U.S. Government and us. Other U.S. Government business is performed under firm fixed price contracts. On "cost-share" and "firm fixed price" contracts, we can incur an actual loss in the performance thereof if incurred costs exceed the contract amount. All of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification or cancellation at the convenience of the Government. On January 13, 2010 (the "Grant Date"), we executed an Assistance Agreement (the "Agreement") for a $45,145,534 grant (the "Grant") with the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the "Stimulus Act"). The Grant provides funds to facilitate the manufacture and deployment of electric drive vehicles, batteries and electric drive vehicle components in the United States. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the DOE will reimburse us for 50 percent of qualifying costs incurred on or after August 5, 2009 for the purchase of facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment, and for engineering related to product qualification and testing of our electric propulsion systems and other products. The period of the Grant is through January 12, 2013. Funding for qualifying project costs incurred during the period commencing August 5, 2009 through June 26, 2010 is initially limited to $8.1 million until the following conditions are satisfied: 1) review and approval of our accounting system by the DCAA; and 2) mutual agreement by the parties on an updated total estimated cost of the project. In the event either condition is not satisfied by June 26, 2010, the Grant may be terminated. In addition, we are required, no later than January 12, 2011, to provide DOE with an additional updated total estimated cost of the project along with evidence of firm commitments for our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project. If all such funds have not been secured, we must submit, by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE. If we dispose of assets acquired using Grant funding, we may be required to reimburse the DOE upon such sale date if the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition exceeds $5,000. The amount of any such reimbursement shall be equal to 50 percent of the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition. At March 31, 2010 we had received reimbursements from the DOE under the Stimulus Grant for facilities and equipment totaling $3.6 million and had approximately $1.6 million of contingently reimbursable engineering costs related to product qualification and testing which we expect to receive in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Further, we expect to record in the quarter the contingency is removed a reduction in expenses for a corresponding amount. Employee and Labor Relations As of April 30, 2010, we had 69 total employees, of whom 68 are full-time employees. We have entered into employment contracts with four of our executive officers. All of these contracts expire on August 22, 2012. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relationship with employees has been generally satisfactory. In addition to our full-time staff, we from time to time engage the services of outside consultants and contract employees to meet peak workload or specialized program requirements. We do not anticipate any difficulty in locating additional qualified engineers, technicians and production workers, if so required, to meet expanded research and development or manufacturing operations. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Anyone seeking information about our business can receive copies of our 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Annual Report to Shareholders, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports and other documents, filed with the SEC at the public reference section of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. These documents also may be obtained, free of charge, by: contacting our Investor Relations office by e-mail at investor@uqm.com; by phone at (303) 682-4900; writing to UQM Technologies, Inc., Investor Relations, PO Box 439, Frederick, CO 80530-0439; or accessing our website at www.uqm.com. We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the materials electronically with the SEC. To obtain any of this information, go to www.uqm.com, select "Investor Relations" and "SEC Filings." Our website also includes our Audit Committee Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as well as the procedures for reporting a violation of business ethics. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS TOC Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. We have incurred significant losses and may continue to do so. We have incurred significant net losses as shown in the following tables: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net loss $ 4,140,872 $ 4,402,019 $ 4,586,105 As of March 31, 2010 we had accumulated deficit of $73,566,111. In the future, we plan to make additional investments in product development, facilities and equipment and other costs related to the commercialization of our products. As a result, we expect to continue to incur net losses at least through March 31, 2011 and potentially beyond. Our operating losses, anticipated capital expenditures and working capital requirements in the longer term may exceed our current cash balances. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 was $4,140,872 versus a net loss for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 of $4,402,019 and $4,586,105, respectively. At March 31, 2010, our cash and short-term investments totaled $30,148,783. We expect our losses to continue through at least March 31, 2011 and potentially beyond. Our existing cash resources, together with funding expected from our ARRA grant should be sufficient to complete our business plan for at least the next eighteen months. Should those resources be insufficient, we may need to secure additional debt or equity funding, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not satisfy the terms of our U.S. Department of Energy grant, we may not receive all or any portion of the $45.1 million grant we were awarded and may be required to return amounts already paid to us under the grant. On January 13, 2010, we finalized a $45.1 million award under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act's Electric Drive Vehicle Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative with the U.S. Department of Energy. This Award is subject to terms and conditions specified in the agreement between us and the DOE. We are required to make a cash investment on a dollar-for-dollar matching basis to receive funds under this Award. If we are unable to match the total amount of the $45.1 million award with funding from non-Federal sources, we will be unable to take advantage of the entire Award, and could become ineligible for continued participation in the program. The payment of the incurred costs under the award has been limited to $8.1 million through June 26, 2010 until various conditions are satisfied. These conditions include 1) DOE's review and approval of our accounting system; and 2) mutual agreement of an updated total estimated cost of the project. In the event either condition is not satisfied by June 26, 2010 the grant may be terminated. In addition, we are required within one year after the effective date of the award to provide DOE with an additional updated total estimated cost of the project along with firm commitments for our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project. We have already obtained $32 million as proceeds from our October 2009 stock offering that may be used for the project. If all such funds have not been secured, we must submit by such a date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds that is acceptable to the DOE. In the event we do not satisfy the foregoing contingencies, the award may be terminated. In addition, the award may be terminated at any time at the convenience of the government. Although we expect to satisfy the contingencies contained in the award, we can not assure that the contingencies will be satisfied and the contract will not be terminated prior to receiving all of the proceeds. CODA's manufacturing partner may not purchase from us all or any portion of the 20,000 systems provided for under its supply agreement. We have executed a supply agreement with CODA that provides a framework for CODA's manufacturing partner to purchase from us 20,000 electric propulsion systems for use in automobiles to be manufactured by CODA during the initial two-year term of the agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, CODA's manufacturing partner, HaFei, will issue blanket purchase orders covering their annual purchase requirements and specifying the timing of delivery for such units, with the nearest 60-day delivery schedule considered to be "firm" and noncancellable. HaFei has not yet issued any purchase orders under the CODA supply agreement. If HaFei does not purchase at least 15,000 units under the CODA supply agreement, CODA may be required to make specific payments to us. For example, if CODA is unsuccessful in the development of its electric automobile, HaFei would not be obligated to purchase electric propulsion systems from us, but CODA would then be obligated to make the payments specified in the contract to us. While these specific payments would cover much of our costs in preparing to supply electric propulsion systems to CODA, the payments are substantially less than the amount we would receive for sales of systems under the supply agreement. In addition, CODA may not have adequate funds to make any such payments to us or may otherwise contest its obligation to pay, and as a result it is possible that we may never receive any such funds. CODA may also terminate the supply agreement for any number of reasons. We may experience challenges in launching production of electric propulsion systems on the scale envisioned under the CODA supply agreement. We have not to date produced electric propulsion systems on the scale we intend to manufacture to fulfill our obligations under the CODA supply agreement, although we have several years of experience manufacturing motors and electronics that are smaller and operate at lower power levels. We will also need to hire additional personnel, as well as acquire new equipment and tooling to launch production for CODA, which will require significant time and expense. We may not sell a sufficient number of systems to CODA or other customers to cover these expenses. Our revenue is highly concentrated among a small number of customers. A large percentage of our revenue is typically derived from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue and intensify as we begin production under the CODA supply agreement. CODA may become the source of a substantial portion of our revenue in at least the near-term. The magnitude of this revenue is dependent on CODA's ability to introduce and sell its passenger vehicle in commercial volumes. Our customer arrangements generally are non-exclusive, have no long-term volume commitments and are often done on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods will continue to purchase our products. Accordingly, our revenue and results of operations may vary substantially from period to period. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to cease doing business with us, significantly reduce or delay its purchases from us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business relies on third parties, whose success we cannot predict. As a manufacturer of motors, generators, and other component parts, our business model depends on the ability of third parties in our industry to develop, produce and market products that include or are compatible with our technology and then to sell these products into the marketplace. Our ability to generate revenue depends significantly on the commercial success of our customers and partners. Failure of these third parties to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our products and fluctuations in the timing and volume of such sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our electric propulsion systems use rare earth minerals and unavailability or limited supply of these minerals could prevent us from manufacturing our products in production quantities or increase our costs. Neodymium, a rare earth mineral, is a key ingredient used in the production of magnets that are a component of our electric propulsion systems. Neodymium is currently sourced primarily from China, and China recently indicated its intent to retain more of this mineral for the use of Chinese companies, rather than exporting it. To the extent that we buy magnets as a finished product from a Chinese supplier, these potential limitations on neodymium ore may not impact us. Although neodymium iron boron magnets are available from other sources, these alternative sources are currently more costly. Reduced availability of neodymium from China could adversely affect our ability to obtain magnets in sufficient quantities, or in a timely manner, to meet our production plans. In the event that China's actions cause us to seek alternate sources of supply for magnets, it could cause an increase in our production costs thereby reducing our profit margin on electric propulsion systems if we are unable to pass the increase in our production costs on to our customers. A prolonged downturn in global economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business. Our business and results of operations are affected by international, national and regional economic conditions. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption over the last year, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, ratings downgrades of certain investments and declining values of others. The global economy has entered a recession. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruptions in financial markets, credit availability, and adverse economic conditions throughout the world. These economic developments affect businesses such as ours and those of our customers and suppliers in a number of ways that could result in unfavorable consequences to us. Current economic conditions or declining economic conditions in the United States and elsewhere, including in the automobile industry, may cause our current or potential customers to delay or reduce purchases which could, in turn, result in reductions in sales of our products, materially and adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Volatility and disruption of global financial markets could limit our customers' ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and proceed with planned or new capital spending initiatives, leading to a reduction in sales volume that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. In addition, a decline in our customers' ability to pay as a result of the economic downturn may lead to increased difficulties in the collection of our accounts receivable, higher levels of reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. Some of our contracts can be cancelled with little or no notice and could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Our contracts with government agencies are subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency and in some cases grant "march-in" rights to the government. March-in rights are the right of the United States government or the applicable government agency, under limited circumstances, to exercise a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable worldwide license to any technology developed under contracts funded by the government to facilitate commercialization of technology developed with government funding. March-in rights can be exercised if we fail to commercialize the developed technology. The exercise of march-in rights by the government or an agency of the government could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Some of our orders for the future delivery of products are placed under blanket purchase orders which may be cancelled by our customers at any time. The amount payable to us, if any, upon cancellation by the customer varies by customer. Accordingly, we may not recognize as revenue all or any portion of the amount of outstanding order backlog we have reported. We face intense competition and may be unable to compete successfully. In developing electric motors for use in vehicles and other applications, we face competition from very large domestic and international companies, including the world's largest automobile manufacturers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources to apply to research and development efforts than we have, and they may independently develop motors that are technologically more advanced than ours. These competitors also have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. For these reasons, potential customers may choose to purchase electric motors from our competitors rather than from us. In addition, the U.S. government has awarded substantial financial grants under the stimulus bill to several large companies who compete with us. To the extent that some of these competitors received awards under the stimulus bill in amounts greater than we have, could adversely impact our ability to compete. Our business depends, in part, on the expansion of the market for hybrid electric vehicles and the future introduction and growth of a market for all-electric vehicles. Although our electric propulsion systems may be used in a wide variety of products, the market for electric and hybrid vehicles is fairly new. At the present time, batteries used to power electric motors have limited life and require several hours to charge, and charging stations for electric motors are not widely available. Electric and hybrid vehicles also tend to be priced higher than comparable gasoline-powered vehicles. As a result, consumers may experience concerns about driving range limitations, battery charging time and higher purchase costs of electric or hybrid automobiles. If consumer preferences shift to vehicles powered by other alternative methods, or if concerns about the availability of charging stations cannot be overcome, the market for all-electric cars, and therefore our electric propulsion systems, may be limited. In addition, our electric propulsion systems are incorporated in buses used for mass transit in several U.S. cities. If passenger traffic in these mass transit systems declines, demand for our products may also decrease. The popularity of alternative fuel based vehicles and "green energy" initiatives are highly dependent on macro-economic conditions, including oil prices and the overall health of the economy. When oil prices fall, interest in and resources allocated to the development of advanced technology vehicles and propulsion systems may diminish. The recent downturn in the world economy also has severely impacted the automotive industry, slowing the demand for vehicles generally and reducing consumers' willingness to pay more for environmentally friendly technology. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business may not grow. Although we believe our proprietary systems are suited for a wide-range of vehicle electrification applications, our business and financial plan relies heavily on the introduction of new products that have limited testing in the marketplace. We are currently making substantial investments in human resources, manufacturing facilities and equipment, production and application engineering, among other things, to ramp up our production capacity in order to capitalize on the anticipated expansion in demand for electric propulsion systems and generators in the automobile and light truck markets. Our sales of electric propulsion systems and generators in the automobile and light truck markets to date have consisted of limited quantities of evaluation and field test units. We are not certain that our existing products will achieve broad market acceptance, or that we will be able to develop new products or product enhancements that will achieve broad market acceptance. Changes in environmental policies could hurt the market for our products. The market for electric and other alternative fuel vehicles and equipment and the demand for our products are influenced, to a degree, by federal, state and local regulations relating to air quality, greenhouse gases and pollutants. These laws and regulations may change, which could result in transportation or equipment manufacturers abandoning or delaying their interest in electric or hybrid electric vehicles or equipment. In addition, a failure by authorities to enforce current laws and regulations or to adopt additional environmental laws or regulations could limit the demand for our products. Although many governments have identified as a significant priority the development of alternative energy sources, governments may change their priorities, and any change they make could materially affect our revenue or the development of our products. If we are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary technology, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would impair our competitiveness and ability to commercialize our products. In addition, the cost of enforcing our proprietary rights may be expensive and result in increased losses. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We have historically pursued patent protection in the United States and a limited number of foreign countries where we believe significant markets for our products exist or where potentially significant competitors have operations. It is possible that a substantial market could develop in a country where we have not received patent protection and under such circumstances our proprietary products would not be afforded legal protection in these markets. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We cannot assure that additional patents will be issued to us or, if they are issued, as to the scope of their protection. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action, it would divert funds and resources which otherwise could be used in our operations and we may not be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we may operate or sell our products in the future. If third parties assert technology infringement claims against us, the defense of the claims could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time and attention from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our results of operations may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Use of our motors in vehicles could subject us to product liability claims or product recalls, and product liability insurance claims could cause an increase in our insurance rates or could exceed our insurance limits, which could impair our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The automotive industry experiences significant product liability claims. As a supplier of electric propulsion systems or other products to vehicle OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our systems or components caused an accident. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. The sale of systems and components for the transportation industry entails a high risk of these claims, which may increase as our production and sales increase. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving these systems if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. We carry product liability insurance of $10 million covering most of our products. If we were to experience a large insured loss, it might exceed our coverage limits, or our insurance carriers could decline to further cover us or raise our insurance rates to unacceptable levels, any of which could impair our financial position and results of operations. Any product liability claim brought against us also could have a material adverse effect on our reputation. We may be subject to warranty claims, and our provision for warranty costs may not be sufficient. We may be subject to warranty claims for defects or alleged defects in our products, and the risk of such claims arising will increase as our production and sales increase. In addition, in response to consumer demand, vehicle manufacturers have been providing, and may continue to provide, increasingly longer warranty periods for their products. As a consequence, these manufacturers may require their suppliers, such as us, to provide correspondingly longer product warranties. As a result, we could incur substantially greater warranty claims in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS TOC None. 