Item 1A. Risk Factors. General UQM Technologies, Inc., ("UQM") is a developer and manufacturer of energy efficient, power dense, electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers. Our primary focus is incorporating our advanced technology into products aimed at existing commercial markets and emerging markets for electrically propelled vehicles that are expected to experience rapid growth. We operate our business in two segments: 1) technology - which encompasses the further advancement and application of our proprietary motors, generators, power electronics and software; and 2) power products – which encompasses the manufacture of motors, generators, power electronic controllers and related products. Our $0.01 par value common stock trades on the American, Chicago and Pacific stock exchanges under the symbol "UQM." The Company’s revenue from continuing operations is derived from two principal sources: 1) funded contract research and development services performed for strategic partners, customers and the U.S. government directed toward either the advancement of our proprietary technology portfolio or the application of our proprietary technology to customers’ products; and 2) the manufacture and sale of products engineered by us. We have two principal operating companies: 1) UQM Technologies, Inc., located in Frederick, Colorado, which includes the Corporate Headquarters and Engineering and Product Development Center; and 2) wholly-owned subsidiary UQM Power Products, Inc.("UQM Power"), also located in Frederick, Colorado, which is an ISO quality certified manufacturer of our products. Technology Our technology base includes a number of proprietary technologies and patents relating to brushless permanent magnet motors, generators and power electronic controllers, together with software code to intelligently manage the operation of our systems. See also "Patents" below. The typical architecture of a UQM(R) motor consists of a stator winding employing a high pole count configuration, which allows for high copper utilization (minimizing energy loss and cost) and a hollow rotor upon which powerful rare earth permanent magnets are mounted on the outer circumference. The stator is affixed to an aluminum housing containing a mounting ring and bearings, which allows the rotor to be suspended within the stator. Commutation of the machine is accomplished electronically by sensing the position of the rotor in relation to the stator and intelligently pulsing electrical energy into the stator such that the electric field generated by the stator interacts with the magnetic field of the rotor producing rotational motion ("motor operation"). Conversely, the application of rotational motion to the rotor by an external force results in the generation of electrical power ("generator operation"). UQM(R) machines can be operated in either a forward or reverse direction of rotation and either in motor or generator mode and can dynamically change from one mode of operation to another in millisecond response time. The hollow design of the rotor permits the packaging of other components such as gears and electromechanical brakes in the interior of the machine. These design features contribute to lower usage of copper and iron and other materials generally (due to smaller package dimensions), reducing manufacturing cost over those for conventional machines of similar power. In addition, the utilization of neodymium-iron-boron ("NdFeB") magnet material in a wide range of consumer devices, such as cell phones, disk drives and medical devices, has dramatically improved the availability, performance and price of this material, allowing us to price our advanced motors and controls competitively with lesser performing conventional motors which we believe will accelerate the rate of commercialization of our technology. Attributes of our permanent magnet motor technology include brushless electronic commutation; a relatively large air-gap dimension; the use of powerful rare earth NdFeB magnet material; good heat rejection; low iron content; and low mechanical losses. As a result, UQM(R) motors have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packageability. Attributes of our microprocessor-based digital power electronic controllers include high power operation (600 amps at 400 volts), four-quadrant control (forward/reverse and motoring/generation), reduced switching losses, intelligent control and controller area network ("CAN") capability. In addition, we have developed and patented a method of control embodied in electronic component architecture and software code (Phase Advance Control) which allows UQM(R) motors to deliver both high output torque at low operating speeds and continuous power at high operating speeds from the same machine. Conventional permanent magnet motor designs are limited to operating at either high torque at low speeds or continuous power at high speeds, but not both. In most vehicle propulsion applications, high torque is required to launch the vehicle from a standing stop transitioning to high power as the vehicle is accelerated to highway speeds. In conventional internal combustion engine powered vehicles, the transition from high torque to high power is typically accomplished through the multiple gear changes performed by a mechanical transmission. UQM(R) motors, incorporating phase advance technology, are suited as propulsion drives in electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles due to the ability to power a vehicle from a standing stop to highway speeds without mechanical gear changes, thereby eliminating the size, weight and cost of mechanical transmissions. We have also developed a technology that allows our permanent magnet motors to achieve a 10 to 1 top speed to base speed ratio. This technology also provides both high torque and high-speed capability in the same machine, but at levels greater than that of other motor technology. Many electric motor applications require high torque capability for starting and low speed operation, but must also achieve high speed. For military vehicles, high torque at low speed translates into obstacle and grade climbing capability, while high speed enables pursuit, dash and evasive maneuvers as well as on-road convoy transport. Many commercial applications have similar requirements. Conventional vehicles achieve the high torque required for launch and low end acceleration and the constant power required for high road speed by using a transmission and multiple gear changes. Prior to this performance breakthrough, UQM(R) systems incorporating phase advance were able to achieve a top speed to base speed ratio of 4 to 1. Electrically propelled vehicles designed around a 4 to 1 limitation, sometimes require unwanted gearing and/or have less than desired performance. This has particularly been the case in the more demanding off-highway equipment and military vehicle applications. Providing vehicle developers with electric propulsion systems capable of a top speed to base speed ratio of 10 to 1 overcomes a significant limitation and opens up potential new application opportunities for UQM(R) systems. We also recently developed a new method of electronic control for our permanent magnet motor and generator systems, which further improved their performance. The new method of control incorporates sophisticated techniques that extract power from substantially the entire electrical cycle of the motor, resulting in maximized power output and efficiency. These performance enhancements increased peak power output by 33 percent; continuous power output increased by 50 percent and system efficiency at various operating points improved by 2 to 8 percent. In addition, the new method of control includes enhanced user configurable functionality and increased data transmission and processing speeds, which improve feedback, prognostics and diagnostic capabilities, all of which enhance the durability and functionality of the systems. The majority of our research and development activities are the result of projects contracted with and funded by customers, for which we typically retain intellectual property rights in the resulting technology developed. Customer funded development activities are recorded in our financial statements as contract services revenue and the associated development costs are shown as cost of contract services. In recent years, we have focused our research and development activities on the development of commercial products and production engineering activities to lower the cost of manufacture, as well as enhance the performance and capability of our systems, as opposed to basic research in the field. We believe our future growth is dependent, in part, on the continued advancement of our technology portfolio and our ability to commercialize our technology in additional product applications and markets. Accordingly, we expect to continue to pursue additional customer funded programs and to selectively invest in internally funded development projects to accomplish these objectives. Markets Our primary focus is the commercialization of our technology in both existing and emerging markets for electrically powered vehicle propulsion systems and auxiliary systems for vehicles. Existing Markets Today there are numerous well-established markets for products that incorporate electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers that are targets for replacement by our advantaged systems. Examples of existing electric vehicle markets that we believe present opportunities for the commercialization of our proprietary technology include electric wheelchairs, golf carts, forklift trucks and other warehouse vehicles, aircraft tugs and other support equipment, commercial floor cleaning equipment and other similar markets where the product application generally requires high torque and variable speed operation. In addition, there are a multitude of electric auxiliary motors used on conventional vehicles that provide a further opportunity for replacement by our systems. We have developed and commercialized several products for existing markets that are currently being manufactured by our wholly-owned subsidiary, UQM Power. These products include a direct-drive propulsion motor used in Invacare Corporation’s Storm(R) electric wheelchair for which we are supplying field service and warranty units, fan blower motors used in aircraft air conditioning systems manufactured by Keith Products, Inc. and a recently introduced vehicle auxiliary motor for a new customer. Nearly all existing market applications utilize low cost components, making it difficult for the customer to justify the adoption of more costly and technologically superior components. In order to successfully compete in these cost driven markets, we have adopted a part sourcing and manufacturing strategy designed to provide high quality and low pricing for our customers. In 1998, our manufacturing operations achieved ISO 9002 quality certification, and we are currently in the process of adopting the Advanced Product Quality Planning ("APQP") automotive procedures. Our strategy for the near term is to source components with quality suppliers and to perform final assembly, testing, pack-out and shipping from our Frederick, Colorado facility. We have established relationships with many low cost suppliers, including a number of international companies. We also have completed a re-layout of our manufacturing area, including assembly of a mezzanine second level, which has doubled our available production floor space. We are in the process of putting in place highly automated, flexible, mixed model assembly systems which will be computer controlled and monitored for quality assurance and consistent performance. Depending on product complexity and mix, we believe the capacity of our current 30,000 sq. ft. facility is up to 250,000 units per shift per year. We also own 2.5 acres of land adjacent to our current facility where we can construct an additional 25,000 sq. ft. of manufacturing floor space. We expect to continue to aggressively pursue the commercialization of both technologically advanced and low cost products that we develop to customer specifications in these large, established markets. Emerging Markets Potentially large markets are developing in conjunction with the electrification of a wide-range of vehicle platforms. Electrification of vehicles is being pursued for a variety of application specific reasons including: 1) improved fuel economy, 2) lower vehicle emissions, 3) greater reliability and lower maintenance, 4) the need for higher levels of available onboard electric power to run electrical devices, and 5) improved performance and vehicle control. Of these reasons, improved fuel economy has emerged as a significant factor in the development and potential rate of growth of the emerging markets as crude oil prices continue to rise, recently exceeding $75 per barrel, and consumers and businesses alike contend with gasoline and diesel prices of over $3.00 per gallon. This trend toward higher fuel prices is expected to continue for the foreseeable future driven by tight supply levels, geopolitical turmoil in key oil producing countries and increasing world demand driven principally by escalating consumption of fossil fuels by developing countries such as China and India. Crude oil consumption in the United States as reported by the Transportation Energy Data Book; Edition 22 and the EIA Annual Energy Outlook 2003 averages approximately 20 million barrels per day. Of this amount, approximately two-thirds is used for transportation. Every day the U.S. consumes 20 million barrels of oil. Non-transportation Over 2/3 of the oil we consume is used for transportation. The electrification of conventional vehicles, ranging from passenger vehicles and over-the-road trucks to off-road vehicles such as agricultural tractors, construction equipment and military vehicles, can potentially offer improvements in fuel economy and emissions. Nearly all conventional vehicles are powered by a gasoline or diesel fueled internal combustion engine that converts the energy stored in the fuel to rotating power out of the engine. The power out of the engine’s rotating shaft is used to propel the vehicle and operate all of the vehicles auxiliaries either directly with belts, pulleys and gears or indirectly through electricity generated from a belted alternator. Internal combustion engines are relatively inefficient, converting only 30 to 40 percent of the input energy in the fuel to the output shaft to do useful work. The remaining 60 to 70 percent of the input energy is wasted by the engine as heat loss. Electric motors on the other hand, are much more efficient in converting input electric energy to the rotating shaft to do useful work. UQM(R) electric propulsion systems have some of the highest efficiencies (input energy to output work) in the industry ranging from 80 to 95 percent. The electrification of vehicles can range from simply replacing inefficient belt and gear driven under-the-hood auxiliaries (water pump, power steering, HVAC, cooling fans etc.) with efficient electric powered ones, to eliminating the internal combustion engine entirely and replacing it with full electric propulsion such as in a battery or fuel cell powered vehicle. Generally, as the vehicle powerplant content becomes increasingly more electric, the fuel efficiency improves and the cost and complexity increases. With rising fuel prices, vehicle makers are finding it much more feasible to justify this added complexity and cost. We believe that the trend toward increasing electrification of vehicles will continue at an accelerated pace. Accordingly, we have developed and continue to develop, with funding from our customers, electric propulsion systems and other motor and electronic products that will enable our customers to introduce alternative powered vehicles in the markets they serve, should they elect to do so. An expanded description of the different degrees of vehicle electrification follows: Electrification of engine driven auxiliaries - In most existing conventional gasoline and diesel-powered vehicles, under-the-hood components, such as water, oil and fuel pumps, power steering systems, cooling fans and air conditioning compressors are powered by engine belts, pulleys and gears. These devices perform their functions very inefficiently and represent a significant load on the engine. Because they are directly connected to the engine, there is no way to independently vary their speed or modulate their power. The electrification of these components provides numerous advantages including: 1) variable speed and power operation which improves efficiency and fuel economy, 2) the ability to locate them strategically anywhere in the vehicle because an electric component does not require proximity to an engine driven belt or gear, 3) improved controllability and reliability and 4) flexible architectures and improved access for service and maintenance. Existing conventional alternators do not provide enough power to electrify the engine driven auxiliaries and must be replaced with a higher power generator. The typical UQM(R) generator is smaller, nearly twice as efficient and provides five times the power of a conventional alternator. In addition, these higher power generators can provide export power to power other on-board or off-board equipment. This electrification strategy is easily adopted because required changes to vehicle design and operation are the least disruptive and can improve vehicle fuel economy by 7 to 15 percent. Parallel hybrids – Parallel hybrid vehicles incorporate an electric motor to join the internal combustion engine in propelling the vehicle. In a low power configuration, often referred to as a "mild hybrid", a starter/motor/generator that is typically integrated into the flywheel of an engine, is used to combine three separate functions in one electric machine. The machine starts the engine, eliminating the need for a conventional starter, performs power generation, eliminating a conventional belt driven alternator, and can be run in motoring mode, supplying supplemental power to the driveline to improve acceleration and vehicle performance. Higher power parallel hybrids incorporate additional system features such as regenerative braking and automatic engine shutdown and all-electric propulsion during certain operating conditions. In a typical parallel hybrid vehicle, acceleration from a standing-stop is generally performed by the motor in all-electric mode up to a given speed at which time the engine starts and the engine and electric motor work in parallel to accelerate the vehicle. Once the vehicle achieves highway speed, the motor ceases operation and the vehicle is propelled using the engine only. During braking operations, the motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture and store energy into a battery pack that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. If the batteries need additional charging, the engine drives the machine in generator mode sending electricity to charge the battery pack. These vehicles have sufficient battery charging capacity to be self-sustaining thereby eliminating the need to plug the vehicle into the electric power grid. Depending on the vehicle’s level of electric motive power and its duty cycle, parallel hybrids can achieve fuel economy improvements of 10 to 45 percent. Series hybrids – Series hybrid vehicles contain a greater degree of electrification than parallel hybrids. In a typical series hybrid vehicle, all of the motive power for the vehicle is supplied by electric motors, thereby eliminating conventional driveline components such as the transmission and drive shaft. Generally, series hybrids contain a larger amount of batteries to store electrical energy and the engine’s principal function is to turn a separate generator to produce the electrical energy necessary to maintain the state of charge of the onboard battery pack. As in a parallel hybrid, during braking operations, the motor is switched to power generation mode and used to recapture and store energy into the battery pack that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. Also, as in the parallel hybrid, a series hybrid vehicle has sufficient battery charging capacity to be self-sustaining thereby eliminating the need to plug the vehicle into the electric power grid. Because the engine serves as an under-the-hood powerplant, series hybrids typically have large amounts of available onboard power to perform additional functions while the vehicle is operating or when it reaches its final destination. Depending on vehicle configuration and duty cycle, series hybrids can achieve fuel economy improvements of 35 to 50 percent. Plug-in hybrids – A plug-in hybrid vehicle can be configured as either a parallel or a series hybrid, although the most common is the parallel configuration. What distinguishes this category of hybrid is that it is designed to operate in all-electric only mode for a range of 20 to 40 miles and be charge depleting therefore requiring it to be periodically plugged into and recharged from the electric grid. Because a portion of the energy consumed by a plug-in hybrid vehicle is acquired at a relatively low cost from the electrical grid in addition to the efficiencies obtained from its hybrid configuration, this category of vehicle can achieve fuel economy improvements of 60 to 75 percent. All-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles – All-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles are powered entirely from electric energy stored onboard in batteries or generated onboard by a fuel cell. In this category of vehicle all motive power is produced by electric motors and there is no engine and associated transmission, driveline and exhaust components. Similarly, many vehicle functions currently performed by auxiliaries attached to the engine through belts or gears, such as power steering and air conditioning, must be performed using electric motors. As with hybrid electric vehicles, all-electric battery powered vehicles can switch the propulsion motor during braking operations to power generation mode and recapture and store energy into the battery pack that is normally lost as brake heat in conventional vehicles. The stored energy is then consumed by the electric motor in the next acceleration cycle. The energy needs of all-electric battery powered vehicles are obtained by recharging their batteries using the electric power grid. Fuel cells are energy production devices that generate electricity through a chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen. The by-product of this reaction is water therefore allowing for the total elimination of vehicle exhaust emissions in this category of vehicle. Because there is no battery energy storage in a fuel cell powered vehicle, there is no opportunity for regenerative braking energy recapture. Fuel economy improvements for all-electric battery and fuel cell vehicles are generally 75 percent or greater. Our Opportunity We have historically focused our resources on the development of products for the electrification of vehicles including electric motors, generators and electronic controls to power under-the-hood auxiliaries such as water, oil and fuel pumps, power steering, cooling fans and air conditioning compressors. In addition, we have developed highly efficient electric propulsion systems for each category of vehicle described above with power levels of 0.5 Kw to 120 Kw, which are suitable for vehicles ranging from wheelchairs to passenger automobiles to large trucks, tractors, construction equipment and military vehicles. In addition we are pursuing the commercialization of our technology and products designed by us in numerous large existing markets where we intend to replace an existing supplier through the introduction of technologically advanced products or lower cost systems or a combination of both. We believe that our technology and products are well-suited for application in a wide range of vehicles as the trend toward electrification continues to gain momentum. In this regard, we have focused our attention on several niche markets where we believe we can most effectively compete and which we expect to have higher than average rates of growth and expansion. A brief description of each of these markets follows: Over-the-road trucks – The U.S. Department of Energy estimated that in 2004, trucks consumed 8 million barrels of crude oil per day and they project that by 2025, trucks will consume approximately two-thirds of all crude oil used in transportation, or 12 million barrels of crude oil per day. There are approximately 6 million trucks, buses and other heavy-duty on-road vehicles sold in the United States each year. The market for these vehicles is characterized by a large number of suppliers, a wide-range of vehicle designs and configurations, diverse power and performance levels and relatively low production volumes for each model. As a result, the typical truck manufacturer is unlikely to have the technical expertise or financial resources to internally develop products that can compete in emerging markets for increasingly electrified vehicles. Accordingly, we expect truck manufacturers to purchase products from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors, generators and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. We are working with a number of customers in the development and application of our products to both trucks and buses and expect to continue to aggressively pursue the commercialization of our products as this market emerges over the next several years. Our customers in the over-the-road truck market include Eaton Corporation and International Truck and Engine Company for heavy-duty hybrid propulsion systems and related electronic products; and Engineered Machined Products, Inc. for a variety of pump and cooling fan under-the-hood auxiliaries. Off-road vehicles – There are a wide range of off-road vehicles sold in the United States each year. These vehicles range from the small - wheelchairs, golf carts, fork trucks, riding lawn mowers, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, etc., to large construction, agricultural and mining equipment. The markets for small vehicles are typically characterized by relatively high volumes, low power levels, and commodity pricing. We have been supplying wheelchair motors to Invacare Corporation for the last five years and expect to continue to supply field service parts for wheelchairs for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect to continue to compete selectively in markets where the customer requires advanced technology or superior performance and where acceptable gross profit margins are obtainable. The market for large equipment- tractors, construction, mining and other specialty equipment- possesses many of the same characteristics as the over-the-road truck market described above. It is estimated that approximately 500,000 of these vehicles are sold in the United States each year. Accordingly, we expect these vehicle manufacturers to purchase products with similar specifications as those required in over-the-road trucks from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. Although these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, they nevertheless represent a substantial opportunity due to higher power levels, substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. Our customers in the off-road vehicle market are Deere & Company for whom we have developed a variety of propulsion systems for construction and agricultural equipment, as well as small lawn and grounds care products; and Engineered Machined Products, Inc. for a variety of motors and controllers to power under-the-hood auxiliary devices. Military vehicles – The U.S. military purchases a wide range of ground vehicles each year including combat vehicles such as tanks, self-propelled artillery and armored personnel carriers, as well as a variety of light, medium and heavy-duty trucks for convoy and supply operations and for the transport of fuel used on the battlefield. The military is particularly interested in the electrification of vehicles because the attributes these vehicles possess offer exceptional potential for the military to achieve its long-term objectives of developing a highly mobile, lethal fighting force. Fuel economy improvements in military vehicles transfer into substantial savings in support infrastructure and transportation costs associated with transporting fuel to the battlefield, which is typically thousands of miles from the United States. For example, if fuel economy improvements of 25 percent are achieved in the average truck, a corresponding amount of fuel does not have to be transported and therefore a corresponding number of airplanes or tankers are not required in the transportation process. Also, the availability of onboard electrical power on vehicles opens up new opportunities for the development of sophisticated surveillance, detection and battlefield monitoring equipment and for laser, microwave and electrical pulse weapon systems. It is estimated that the military purchases approximately 8,000 trucks per year and greater numbers during periods of armed conflict. As is the case with large off-road equipment, these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, operate at higher power levels, have substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. Our customers in the military vehicle market include Stewart & Stevenson Tactical Vehicle Systems, LP for medium tactical truck parallel hybrid propulsion systems and DRS Technologies, Inc for HMMWV (pronounced "HUMVEE") and series hybrid propulsion systems, Engineered Machined Products, Inc. for a variety of motors and controllers to power under-the-hood auxiliary devices. Distributed power generation – As the price of crude oil and natural gas has continued to rise over the last several years, there has been an increased focus on the development and adoption of clean, renewable energy products including wind turbine power generators, solar panels and stationary fuel cell power generators. In addition, many experts believe that power users will increasingly consider on-site power generation using diesel or natural gas fueled internal combustion engine generators as an alternative to power supplied over the electrical grid. We have developed and expect to continue to develop generators for this market. In addition, we have also developed DC to AC electronic power inverters for use in distributed power generation applications to convert the DC output of these devices to usable AC power for the homeowner or business. Other markets – We have also developed and expect to continue to develop electric products for the aircraft and aerospace market and the boat and marine market. In the aerospace market, our focus is on auxiliary power units for the generation of onboard power and other electric auxiliary systems such as components for aircraft air conditioning systems. We have also developed hybrid propulsion systems for various boat applications. We believe that the fuel efficiency benefits of vehicle electrification can also be realized in the boat and marine markets. Accordingly, we are pursuing a variety of opportunities for our electric motors, generators and electronic controls in these potentially large niche markets. Business Segments At March 31, 2006, we had two reportable segments. These reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services and are managed separately because of their different business strategies. Technology Segment Our technology segment encompasses the operations of our Engineering and Product Development Center which shares a 28,000 square foot facility located in Frederick, Colorado with our motor manufacturing operations which are reported in the power products segment. The Engineering and Product Development Center is equipped with research and development laboratories, prototype build and test facilities for electric motors, generators, power electronic controllers, software, and vehicle integration activities. The technology segment conducts customer funded and internally-funded research and engineering activities directed toward: 1) the development of new motors, generators, and power electronic controllers to meet the requirements of customers’ specific product applications; 2) integration of our motors, generators and power electronic controllers into customers’ products; and 3) support of our power products segment and the low volume manufacture of motors, generators and power electronic controllers. Power Products Segment Our power products segment encompasses the operations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, UQM Power and shares a 28,000 square foot facility located in Frederick, Colorado with the technology segment. UQM Power is ISO 9002 quality certified manufacturer of motors and electronic products designed by the company. Electronic Products Segment – Discontinued Operations In May 2004, we completed the divestiture of the assets of our electronics product segment. This business consisted of the manufacture of thru-hole and surface mount electronic printed circuit board assemblies, wire harness assemblies, value-added component assemblies incorporating either printed circuit board assemblies, wire harness assemblies or both, and complete turn-key electronic product builds. The operations of this divested business are reported as discontinued operations in our statements of operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. See also "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" below. Competition All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets served by the technology segment are additionally characterized by rapid changes due to technological advances that can render existing technologies and products obsolete. The technology segment has developed advanced electric propulsion systems and components which we hope to market to vehicle original equipment manufacturers and their Tier I suppliers throughout the world for use in electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. In recent years, the market for hybrid electric automobiles has begun to emerge led by the introduction and market success of the Toyota Prius and the Honda Insight and Civic hybrid electric passenger cars. As a result, additional vehicle makers have introduced hybrid passenger vehicles and other vehicle manufacturers in both on-road and off-road markets are expected to develop and introduce a variety of hybrid electric vehicles as the market acceptance of these vehicles continues to grow. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or any other market that now exists or may develop in the future. There are numerous companies developing products that do or soon will compete with our systems. Some of these companies possess significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources than we do, including established supply arrangements and volume manufacturing operations. We believe our principal competitors include Honda, Toyota, Hitachi, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi and Ballard Power Systems. The power products segment competes primarily in the automotive, heavy equipment, military, aerospace and medical products industries. Each of these industries is extremely competitive. We face substantial competition on a continuing basis from numerous companies, many of whom possess longer operating histories, significantly greater financial resources and marketing, distribution and manufacturing capability. We believe our principal competitors include Advanced DC, Allied Motion, Emerson Electric, General Electric, Moog, Rockwell International, and Baldor. Patents We hold several groups or families of patents. U.S. Patent Nos. 5,004,944, 5,311,092 and 5,319,844 disclose and claim an electromagnetic transducer and method of making the same. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. Some of the foreign patents have expired. U.S. Patent No. 5,107,151 discloses and claims a switching circuit employing semi-conductor devices in series with an inductor to avoid commutation breakdown and extending the current range of switching by using IGBT devices. Corresponding applications have been filed in foreign countries, some of which have issued, and some of which have been abandoned. U.S. Patent No. 5,592,731 and U.S. Patent No. 5,382,859 relate to a stator for high-power density electric motors and generators, and a method of constructing the same. Corresponding applications have been filed in foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,677,605 discloses and claims a brushless motor and drive system using phase timing advancement. Corresponding applications have been filed in foreign countries, some of which are issued, some of which have been abandoned, and some of which are pending. U.S. Patent No. 5,982,063 discloses and claims an electric motor having an internal brake. Corresponding patent applications have been filed in foreign countries. Some of the foreign applications have issued, and others are still pending. U.S. Patent Nos. 6,522,130 and 6,693,422 disclose and claim a method for controlling a brushless electric motor having a rotor, and relates to a method for sensing rotor position and detecting rotational speed. Corresponding applications have been filed and are pending in several foreign countries. The foreign applications have either issued or are still pending. In 1994, we executed an agreement with Alcan Aluminium Limited ("Alcan") in which Alcan assigned to us all of its rights, title and interests in certain motor technology developed under a program funded by Alcan. This agreement further provides that we shall pay to Alcan royalties of one-half of one percent on revenue derived from the manufacture and sale of products or processes embodying the related technology. Royalty payments under this agreement for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were $19,377, $20,833 and $23,208, respectively. We also intend to rely on the unpatented proprietary know-how we have developed and now utilize in our products. We cannot provide assurance that others will not independently develop, acquire or obtain access to our technology. Although we protect our unpatented proprietary rights by executing confidentiality agreements with our management, employees and others with access to our technology, these measures may not be adequate to protect us from disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Trademarks We own three U.S. Trademark Registrations for "UNIQ" (International Class 7 for power transducers, Class 12 for utility land vehicles, and Class 16 for publications). The Class 12 trademark is subject to renewal in June 2006; the Class 7 trademark is subject to renewal in August 2006; and the Class 16 trademark is subject to renewal in February 2007. We have registered the letters "UQM" in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Counterpart applications have been filed in numerous countries throughout the world, most of which have granted registrations or indicated them to be allowable. Those trademarks are directed to the same trademark classes as the mark "UNIQ". The foreign trademark registrations and applications include major markets where we are doing business or establishing business contacts. We have also registered the trademark "POWERPHASE" which we use in conjunction with certain of our propulsion systems. Corresponding applications for trademark registration were filed in 11 countries. The trademark is registered in the European Community and various other foreign countries. Backlog Our technology segment had unperformed service contracts from customers, which will provide future revenue upon completion totaling approximately $2.2 million and an order backlog for prototype motors and controllers of approximately $0.1 million at April 30, 2006 compared to $1.3 million and $0.1 million, respectively at April 30, 2005. All such service contracts are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to complete all unperformed service contracts over the next seventeen months and ship motor and controller backlog products over the next two months. Our power products segment had an order backlog of approximately $2.1 million at April 30, 2006 compared to $0.7 million at April 30, 2005. We expect to ship all backlog products within the next twelve months. Customers and Suppliers We have one significant customer, Invacare Corporation, which is a customer of our power products segment and accounted for revenue of $681,000, or 15.8 percent of consolidated total revenue in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and $1,370,792, or 28.8 percent, and $1,643,215, or 32.6 percent of consolidated total revenue, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005 and March 31, 2004, respectively. This customer also represented nil and 36.5 percent of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for Invacare Corporation were 10.2 percent and 24.9 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Principal raw materials and components purchased by us include iron, steel, electronic components, magnet material and copper wire. Most of the above items are available from several suppliers. Certain components used by us are custom designs and if our current supplier no longer made them available to us, we could experience production delays. U.S. Government Contracts Revenue derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government and from subcontracts with U.S. Government prime contractors was $1,847,300, or approximately 42.7 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2006, $1,271,781, or approximately 26.7 percent of consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2005 and $1,011,818, or approximately 20.1 percent of consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2004. Accounts receivable from government-funded contracts represented 50 percent and 18 percent of total accounts receivable as of March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Some of our business with the U.S. Government was performed on a cost plus fixed fee basis. These contracts provide for reimbursement of costs, to the extent allocable and allowable under applicable regulations, and payment of a fee. Certain other contracts with the U.S. Government provide for the reimbursement of costs on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis based on not-to-exceed billing rates negotiated between the U.S. Government and us. Other U.S. Government business is performed under firm fixed price contracts. On "cost-share" and "firm fixed price" contracts, we can incur an actual loss in the performance thereof if incurred costs exceed the contract amount. All of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification or cancellation at the convenience of the Government. Employee and Labor Relations As of April 30, 2006, we had 47 full-time employees. We have entered into employment contracts with two of our executive officers, one of these contracts expires on December 31, 2007 and the other expires on December 31, 2010. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relationship with employees has been generally satisfactory. In addition to our full-time staff, we from time to time engage the services of outside consultants and contract labor to meet peak workload or specialized program requirements. We do not anticipate any difficulty in locating additional qualified engineers, technicians and production workers, if so required, to meet expanded research and development or manufacturing operations. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Before investing in our securities you should carefully consider the following factors and other information in this document and the information incorporated by reference. We have incurred significant losses and may continue to do so. We have incurred significant net losses as shown in the following tables: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2006 2005 2004 Net loss $ 2,784,970 $ 1,868,896 $ 4,786,953 We have had accumulated deficits as follows: March 31, 2006 $ 56,796,847 March 31, 2005 $ 54,011,877 In the future we plan to make additional investments in product development and commercialization, which is likely to cause us to remain unprofitable. Our operating losses and working capital requirements could consume our current cash balances. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 was $2,784,970 versus a net loss for the comparable period last year of $1,868,896. At March 31, 2006, our cash and short-term investments totaled $10,086,200. If our losses continue, operations could consume some or all of our cash balances. We expect to make additional investments in human resources, manufacturing facilities and equipment, production and application engineering, among other things, in order to effectively compete in the emerging market for hybrid electric vehicles. We cannot assure, however, that our existing cash resources will be sufficient to complete our business plan. Should our existing cash resources be insufficient, we may need to secure additional funding. We cannot assure you, however, that funding will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our government contracts can be cancelled with little or no notice and could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Some of our technology has been developed under government funding by United States government agencies. In some cases, government agencies in the United States can require us to obtain or produce components for our systems from sources located in the United States rather than foreign countries. Our contracts with government agencies are also subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency and in some cases grant "march-in" rights to the government. March-in rights are the right of the United States government or the applicable government agency, under limited circumstances, to exercise a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable worldwide license to any technology developed under contracts funded by the government to facilitate commercialization of technology developed with government funding. March-in rights can be exercised if we fail to commercialize the developed technology. The implementation of restrictions on our sourcing of components or the exercise of march-in rights by the government or an agency of the government could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. We face intense competition in our motor development and may be unable to compete successfully. In developing electric motors for use in vehicles and other applications, we face competition from very large domestic and international companies, including the world’s largest automobile manufacturers. These companies have far greater resources to apply to research and development efforts than we have, and they may independently develop motors that are technologically more advanced than ours. These competitors also have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. If we fail to develop and achieve market acceptance for our products, our business may not grow. We believe our proprietary systems are suited for a wide range of hybrid electric vehicle platforms. We currently expect to make substantial investments in human resources, manufacturing facilities and equipment, production and application engineering, among other things, to capitalize on the anticipated expansion in demand for products related to this market area. However, our experience in this market area is limited. Our sales in this area will depend in part on the market acceptance of and demand for our proprietary propulsion systems and future products. We cannot be certain that we will be able to introduce or market our products, develop other new products or product enhancements in a timely or cost-effective manner or that our products will achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary technology, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would impair our competitiveness and ability to commercialize our products. In addition, the cost of enforcing our proprietary rights may be expensive and result in increased losses. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We have historically pursued patent protection in a limited number of foreign countries where we believe significant markets for our products exist or where potentially significant competitors have operations. It is possible that a substantial market could develop in a country where we have not received patent protection and under such circumstances our proprietary products would not be afforded legal protection in these markets. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We cannot assure that additional patents will be issued to us or, if they are issued, as to the scope of their protection. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor’s products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action, it would divert funds and resources which otherwise could be used in our operations and we cannot assure that we would be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we may operate or sell our products in the future. If third parties assert technology infringement claims against us, the defense of the claims could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time and attention from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our results of operations may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Use of our motors in vehicles could subject us to product liability claims, and product liability insurance claims could cause an increase in our insurance rates or could exceed our insurance limits, which could impair our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Because some of our motors are designed to be used in vehicles, and because vehicle accidents can cause injury to persons and property, we are subject to a risk of claims for product liability. We carry product liability insurance of $1 million covering all of our products. If we were to experience a large insured loss, it might exceed our coverage limits, or our insurance carriers could decline to further cover us or raise our insurance rates to unacceptable levels, any of which could impair our financial position and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 