Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview UQM Technologies, Inc., ("UQM" or the "Company") is a developer and manufacturer of power dense, high efficiency electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers for the automotive, commercial truck, bus and military markets. Our primary focus is incorporating our advanced technology into products for clean vehicles including propulsion systems for electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles that are expected to experience rapid growth over the next ten years. We were incorporated in 1967 as a Colorado corporation. Our headquarters and manufacturing facility is located in Longmont, Colorado. The global automotive market is experiencing substantial change driven by a number of factors including changing consumer preferences, global macro-economic and geo-political developments, the high price of gasoline, increasing competition and additional governmental regulation and incentives. As a result of these factors, particularly, carbon dioxide standards in Europe and the Corporate Average Fuel Economy ("CAFE") standards in the United States, automakers are developing and introducing, or planning to introduce, additional vehicle models with increasing levels of electrification including serial and parallel hybrid-electric vehicles ("HEV"), plug-in hybrid electric vehicles ("PHEV") and all-electric vehicles ("EV"). These vehicles offer improved energy equivalent gas mileage, lower operating and repair costs and reduced or no tailpipe emissions. The California Air Resources Board has also passed rules to require 15.4% of all new vehicles sold in California to be EVs, PHEVs or hydrogen fuel cell powered vehicles by 2025. In addition, there are 10 additional states that are considering adopting this new rule. Further, governments around the globe have launched initiatives to subsidize the cost of developing clean vehicles and the components used by them including motors and generators, batteries, and power management systems. Government incentives have also been adopted to encourage the purchase of HEVs, PHEVs and EVs by consumers in many developed nations around the world, including a $7,500 federal tax credit in the United States and tax credits in twelve states of up to $7,500 for purchases of qualifying vehicles. Additionally, in Europe fifteen of twenty-seven European Union member states provide tax incentives for electrically chargeable vehicles and China has a trial program to offer incentives of up to 60,000 Yuan (approximately $9,500 USD) for the private purchase of a new battery electric vehicle and 50,000 Yuan (approximately $7,900 USD) for the purchase of PHEVs in five cities. Several automobile manufacturers have indicated that they expect these factors to result in the growth of hybrid vehicle models to over 20% of vehicle sales in 2020 and one international automaker has stated that it expects all-electric vehicles to capture up to a 5% market share by 2020. We make propulsion system products, generators and related auxiliary components for EVs HEVs and PHEVs. We market our products in many segments of the transportation sector including passenger vehicles and light trucks, commercial trucks and buses, off-road vehicles including agricultural and construction equipment, boats and military vehicles. We believe our proprietary permanent magnet propulsion motor and motor control technology delivers exceptional performance at a highly competitive cost. Our principal products include propulsion motors and generators with power ratings from 25 kilowatts to 220 kilowatts, auxiliary motors and electronic controls, DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters that convert direct current to usable alternating current. The principal attributes of our products that we believe differentiate our proprietary products are compact size, high torque delivery, high power density (the ratio of power output to weight) and high energy efficiency. We believe we are well-positioned to participate in the expanding worldwide market for clean vehicles. In addition to our portfolio of high performance products, we have taken a number of steps over the last several years to position the company to meet the needs of our automotive customers including: 1) adding three executives from leading automobile and Tier 1 suppliers to the automobile industry; 2) adding additional technical and manufacturing resources and capability; 3) designing, installing and qualifying volume production lines for our motors and generators and their related electronic controllers; 4) establishing a global sourcing capability; 5) enhancing our logistics, production and administrative processes to support higher volumes of manufacturing operations; 6) relocating our headquarters and manufacturing operations into a 129,304 square foot, world-class facility with 15 adjacent acres for future expansion and 7) launching the next generation of our products which are expected to have improved performance and efficiency, a smaller package size and a lower production cost. In 2010 we entered into a ten year Supply Agreement with CODA Automotive ("CODA") to supply UQM PowerPhase Pro® 100 kW electric propulsion systems for CODA's all-electric four-door sedan. In October 2011 we launched volume production of this system and began providing systems to CODA. In March 2012 CODA began selling its all-electric passenger car to fleets and consumers in the State of California through its recently established dealer network. To date, CODA has established four dealers in California and has announced its intention to establish a significant number of additional dealers across the United States by the end of calendar year 2012. CODA has also completed an agreement with Great Wall Motors Company, Baoding, China to co-develop an all-electric vehicle for worldwide distribution. Great Wall was the fastest growing Chinese automobile manufacturer in 2011 with 487,000 vehicles sold. Under this arrangement Great Wall and CODA intend to co-develop and introduce the most affordable EV on the market, comparable to entry-level internal combustion engine vehicles after incentives. We also supply electric propulsion systems to Proterra, Inc., a developer and manufacturer of all-electric composite transit buses and Electric Vehicles International ("EVI") a developer and manufacturer of all-electric medium-duty delivery trucks. Proterra recently completed durability testing of its vehicles at Altoona. Completion of Altoona testing is required by many municipalities who purchase buses. EVI recently began building 100 all-electric delivery vans for UPS that are expected to be placed in service in calendar year 2012 and has received an order from Frito Lay for delivery trucks powered by UQM® electric propulsion systems. EVI also has launched an initiative to deploy 500 fully electric return-to-base delivery trucks over the next two years to help implement California Governor Brown's executive order to achieve widespread deployment of electric vehicles throughout California. Our electric propulsion systems are powering development vehicles including the all-electric Audi A1 e-tron test fleet vehicles, dozens of which began testing on the streets of Munich, Germany in the fall of 2011 and the Rolls Royce 102EX all-electric Phantom car. In addition to these programs, the company is supplying its electric propulsion systems and generators to numerous other international automakers and entrepreneurial automobile developers as part of their HEV, PHEV and EV vehicle development programs. We have been awarded a $45.1 million grant (the "Grant") from the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA"). The period of the Grant is through January 12, 2015. The objective of the Grant is to accelerate the commercialization of products and the installation of manufacturing infrastructure necessary for the deployment of electric vehicles, batteries and components in the United States. Capital expenditures for facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment and the qualification and testing of products associated with the launch of volume production for CODA and other production intent customers qualify for 50 percent reimbursement under the DOE program. Our ability to utilize funding from this Grant has allowed us to accelerate the productionization of our product portfolio and install volume production lines and other infrastructure providing us with a significant advantage over other motor manufactures and competitors who do not have access to such funds. Through March 31, 2012 we have qualified for reimbursements under the DOE Grant of $16.8 million. We market internationally through: 1) Direct sales to original equipment manufacturers; 2) Tier 1 suppliers of OEMs; 3) Vehicle integrators; and 4) Trade shows and symposiums. We derive our revenue from two principal sources: 1) the manufacture and sale of products engineered by us; and 2) funded contract research and development services performed for strategic partners, customers and the U.S. government directed toward either the advancement of our proprietary technology portfolio or the application of our proprietary technology to customers' products. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 total revenue rose 12 percent to $10,143,456 and our net loss for the fiscal year increased to $4,928,520 or $0.14 per common share from $1,992,358 or $0.06 per common share last fiscal year. Electrification of Vehicles Potentially large markets are developing as a result of the electrification of a wide-range of vehicle platforms. Increased electrification is being pursued for a variety of application specific reasons including: 1) changing consumer preferences; 2) global macro-economic and geo-political developments; 3) the high price of gasoline; 4) increasing competition; and 5) additional governmental regulation and incentives. Of these reasons, additional governmental regulations and incentives has emerged as a significant factor in the development and potential rate of growth of the emerging vehicle electrification markets and is being reinforced by rising crude oil prices and higher gasoline and diesel prices. We expect this trend toward higher fuel prices to continue for the foreseeable future, driven by tight supply levels, geopolitical turmoil in key oil producing countries and expected future increases in world demand, driven principally by escalating consumption of fossil fuels by developing countries such as China and India. The U.S. government has adopted new regulations extending fuel economy standards to medium- and heavy-duty trucks for the first time beginning with model year 2014. CAFE standards will increase the average fuel economy of each manufacturer's passenger car and light truck model offerings to be 35.5 miles per gallon by 2016 and 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. The California Air Resources Board has also passed rules to require 15.4% of all new vehicles sold in California to be EVs, PHEVs or hydrogen fuel cell powered vehicles by 2025. In addition, there are 10 additional states that are considering adopting this new rule. Other recent U.S. Government legislation provides incentives for the production and sale of environmentally friendly vehicles, including the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2010. A partial listing of some of the more notable provisions of this legislation includes: Federal and state tax credits for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles; Low cost loans to manufacturers and component suppliers to purchase infrastructure and develop manufacturing capacity for clean vehicles and components used in these vehicles; Funding for government agencies to acquire environmentally friendly vehicles; Grants for the development of clean vehicles and clean vehicle component technology; and Grants for the development of a "smart" electric grid. The U.S. Government has a policy goal of one million electric vehicles on the road by 2015 and President Obama has announced a directive to government agencies to ensure that by 2015, all new vehicles they purchase are alternative-fuel vehicles, including hybrid and electric vehicles. The Federal government operates more than 600,000 fleet vehicles. There are similar programs in other countries around the world. For example, Germany has a goal of one million electric vehicles by 2020 and five million by 2030 and China has announced a goal of one million new energy vehicles by 2015 and five million by 2020 and has supported this objective by allocating $100 billion Yuan (approximately $15 billion USD) over ten years for investment in core technologies related to all-electric and hybrid electric vehicles. Numerous studies have been conducted over the last several years indicating the potential for electric vehicles to capture significant market share over the next five to ten years. Table 1 summarizes the forecasts of these studies: Table 1: Electrification Forecast - Unit Sales (thousands) Forecast Geography Forecast Year PHEV EV Combined Pike Research United States 2015 200 60 260 Deloitte Consulting United States 2015 2020 up to 50-80 up to 300-800 BCG North America 2020 up to 1,350 up to 1,350 2,700 JD Power and Associates Worldwide and United States 2020 World: 1,300 US: 100 McKinsey & Company Worldwide 2020 2030 up to 4,500 up to 22,000 up to 1,500 up to 7,000 up to 6,000 up to 29,000 Source: UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs, May 2011 We believe that the trend toward increasing electrification of vehicles will continue at an accelerated pace providing a substantial opportunity for the broad commercial application of our products. Technology Our technology base includes a number of proprietary technologies and patents related to brushless permanent magnet motors, generators and power electronic controllers, together with software code to intelligently manage the operation of our systems. The operating characteristics of electric motors for vehicle propulsion are different from those of more conventional industrial motors. Propulsion motors ideally deliver high levels of torque efficiently at variable rotational speeds and possess the ability to transition from high torque to high speed over a relatively constant power curve allowing, in many cases, the elimination of conventional transmissions. Our proprietary propulsion systems have been specifically developed for these applications and deliver exceptional torque and high rotational speeds in a compact, energy efficient machine. The typical architecture of a UQM® electric machine (motor/generator) consists of a stator winding employing a high pole count configuration, which allows for high copper utilization (minimizing energy loss and cost), and a rotor that contains powerful rare-earth permanent magnets. Commutation of the machine is accomplished electronically by sensing the position of the rotor in relation to the stator and intelligently pulsing electrical energy into the stator such that the electric field generated by the stator interacts with the magnetic field of the rotor, producing rotational motion (motor operation). Conversely, the application of rotational motion by an external force results in the generation of electrical power (generator operation). UQM® machines can be operated in either a forward or reverse direction of rotation and either in motor or generator mode and can dynamically change from one mode of operation to another in millisecond response time. The design features inherent to the electric machine contribute to lower usage of copper, iron and other materials generally (due to smaller package dimensions), reducing manufacturing costs compared to conventional machines of similar power. UQM® machines have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. These attributes have allowed us to price our advanced motors and controls competitively with lesser performing conventional motors and controls, which we believe will accelerate the rate of commercialization of our technology. Rare-earth magnet pricing has been volatile over the last two years, peaking in late 2011 before retreating substantially in 2012. There are many factors that contribute to this volatility, and as a result of future pricing uncertainty, UQM is pursuing an advanced motor technology that eliminates rare-earth elements. The technology incorporates permanent magnets of an alternate chemistry, arranged in a unique way that maintains performance benefits. A patent application has been submitted to protect this innovation. UQM was also selected and awarded $3 million by the DOE in a competitive solicitation to pursue this technology. This award was announced in August 2011 and is a three-year technology development program. Attributes of our microprocessor-based digital power electronic controllers include high power operation (up to 600 amps and 700 volts), four-quadrant control (forward/reverse and motoring/generating), reduced switching losses relative to conventional technology, adaptive switch timing control and controller area network ("CAN") capability. As a result, UQM® controllers have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. The UQM® embedded digital signal processor ("DSP") software is the intelligence that coordinates the interaction between the motor/generator and controller, as well as interfacing with a vehicle controller. Software control algorithms are an important part of the Company's intellectual property portfolio. One aspect of the software is a patented method of control referred to as Phase Timing Advancement that enables UQM® motors to deliver both high output torque at low operating speeds and high power at increasing operating speeds. We have extended the capability of Phase Advance Control by using Adaptive Control techniques. These proprietary software algorithms alter the switching strategy as a function of DC voltage, operating speed, output power and temperature to optimize system performance under dynamically changing conditions. The result is maximized output and efficiency that decreases fuel consumption in hybrid electric vehicles and increases the range of battery electric vehicles. The Company's software also optimizes the output per unit of voltage and current, maximizing the utilization of the onboard stored energy and other electrical devices by extracting power from substantially the entire electrical cycle of the motor/generator. The development and application of these proprietary control algorithms have allowed us to continue increasing the peak and continuous power output and the efficiency of our systems. In addition, our controllers now have user configurable functionality and increased data transmission speeds and response times, improving vehicle capability. Included in this functionality is the ability to switch between torque and speed control dynamically, which is especially useful for parallel hybrids and generator applications of our technology. Desired propulsion attributes consist of high torque to launch the vehicle from a standing-stop, with a subsequent transition to high power as the vehicle is accelerated to highway speeds. In the majority of conventional internal combustion engine powered vehicles, the transition from high torque to high power is accomplished through the multiple gear changes performed by a mechanical transmission. UQM® systems, incorporating proprietary DSP software technology, are suited as propulsion drives in HEVs, PHEVs and EVs due to their ability to power a vehicle from a standing-stop to highway speeds without mechanical gear changes, thereby eliminating the size, weight, complexity and cost of multi-speed mechanical transmissions. The ability to provide both high torque and high top speed creates additional advantages in military vehicles. High torque at low speed translates into obstacle and grade climbing capability that is more challenging in an off-road environment, while high speed enables pursuit, dash and evasive maneuvers as well as convoy transport. Conventional propulsion systems meet the high torque and high road speed requirements by using a transmission and additional gearing beyond that used for commercial vehicles. We have also developed auxiliary electronic products that perform other functions on HEVs, PHEVs and EVs. We currently manufacture proprietary DC-to-DC converters that reduce the voltage level of vehicle battery packs with nominal voltages of 250 volts to 450 volts to 12 or 24 volts required to power lower voltage devices onboard these vehicles. We also offer a high voltage DC-to-AC inverter, which converts DC power stored in vehicle battery packs (250 volt to 450 volt) to high quality 110/120 volt AC power. This device provides 5 kW of sinusoidal output (40 amps) with an efficiency of up to 93 percent. It powers devices that are typically plugged into a standard wall outlet and its high power quality will handle sensitive loads, including communication systems and power tools. We have two U.S. patent applications pending: one that covers rotor technology for a permanent magnet electric machine and another that covers a brushless PM machine construction using low coercivity (non-rare-earth) magnets. We are also performing research and development to continually improve the functionality of the microprocessor software we use to intelligently control our motor/controller system. The majority of our research and development activities are the result of projects contracted with and funded by customers, for which we typically retain intellectual property rights in the resulting technology developed. Customer funded development activities are recorded in our financial statements as contract services revenue and the associated development costs are shown as costs of contract services. Internally-funded research and development expenditures are charged to research and development expense when incurred. In recent years, we have focused our research and development activities on the development of commercial products and production engineering activities to lower the cost of manufacture, as well as enhance the performance and capability of our systems, as opposed to basic research in the field. We believe our future growth is dependent, in part, on the continued advancement of our technology portfolio and our ability to commercialize our technology in additional product applications and markets. Accordingly, we expect to selectively invest in internally funded development projects to accomplish these objectives. Markets for our Products We believe that our technology and products are well-suited for application in a wide-range of vehicles as the trend toward electrification continues to gain momentum. In this regard, we have focused our attention on several markets where we believe we can most effectively compete and which we expect will have higher than average rates of growth and expansion. A brief description of each of these markets follows: Passenger automobiles and light trucks - In past years, more than 50 million passenger automobiles and light trucks were sold worldwide of which 11 to 17 million units were sold annually in the United States. Over the last several years a market has developed for automobiles that are powered by hybrid electric powertrains. These vehicles have good performance and provide above average fuel economy compared to conventional automobiles. Several automakers have introduced all-electric passenger vehicles including Nissan, Mitsubishi and CODA. The CODA all-electric passenger car is powered by a UQM® electric propulsion system. In addition, several automakers have announced plans to introduce all-electric vehicles in 2012 including Ford and Tesla. We are also supplying UQM® electric propulsion systems to Audi for their test fleet of A-1 e-tron all electric passenger cars and to Rolls Royce for their Phantom all-electric concept passenger vehicle. In addition to established automakers, there are a variety of small entrepreneurial companies that are developing and have introduced or intend to introduce all-electric, hybrid-electric or plug-in hybrid-electric cars. Most visible of these companies is our customer, CODA, which introduced an all-electric passenger vehicle in March of this year in the State of California (see also "the CODA Program" below), as well as Tesla, which introduced an all-electric sports car and hopes to introduce an all-electric passenger car this summer and Fisker Automotive, which introduced a plug-in hybrid sports car and also hopes to introduce a plug-in hybrid passenger car at a future date. Although many of these entrepreneurial companies lack substantial financial resources of established automobile manufacturers and/or significant automobile industry experience, they are pursuing a variety of strategies to introduce these types of automobiles into either niche markets, such as for fleet users or high-end luxury sports car buyers, or the consumer vehicle market generally. Should any of these companies be successful in commercializing their product offerings, it could cause the growth rate of this market to accelerate. These companies are generally using electric or hybrid electric powertrains that they have developed themselves or have been developed by other entrepreneurial companies. Trucks, Buses and Recreational Vehicles- In 2011, approximately 320,000 medium and heavy-duty on-road trucks were sold in the United States. The market for these vehicles is characterized by a large number of suppliers, a wide-range of vehicle designs and configurations, diverse power and performance levels and relatively low production volumes for each model. As a result, the typical truck, bus and other medium and heavy-duty vehicle manufacturer have traditionally out-sourced many of these components and will likely continue to do so for the components necessary to electrify their vehicles. Accordingly, we expect these manufacturers to purchase products from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors; generators and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. Recently, a subsector of this market has begun to develop for medium-duty delivery trucks that operate on a well-defined route where average daily mileage requirements have little variability. In this subsector, truck manufacturers are beginning to offer delivery trucks with custom designed battery capacity whereby the delivery vehicle has only the battery content onboard that is necessary to achieve its route mileage plus a small increment of additional energy for contingencies. For these trucks, the optimized amount of energy stored in batteries reduces the cost of the batteries onboard an all-electric truck to a point where the vehicle is nearly competitively priced, on a life-cycle cost basis, with a conventional internal combustion powered delivery truck of the same size. We believe this pricing parity will accelerate the growth of this subsector in the near term. We are supplying electric propulsion systems to Electric Vehicles International, who has developed an all-electric medium-duty delivery truck. EVI recently announced an order for 100 delivery trucks for UPS and an order from Frito Lay for delivery trucks powered by UQM® electric propulsion systems. EVI has launched an initiative to deploy 500 fully electric return-to-base delivery trucks over the next two years to help implement California's Governor Brown's executive order to achieve widespread deployment of electric vehicles throughout California. We expect the medium and heavy-duty hybrid electric truck market to grow at an accelerating rate as potential customers for these vehicles gain a greater understanding of their operational, environmental and economic advantages. We are currently supplying an automotive qualified DC-to-DC converter to Eaton Corporation which is used onboard medium and heavy-duty hybrid trucks sold by Freightliner, International and Paccar and we offer for sale a DC-to-AC inverter to meet the growing onboard and export power requirements of hybrid trucks. Several truck manufacturers are also considering other electrically-based products that either enhance the utility of their vehicles, such as the ability to generate large amounts of exportable electric power, or that may be necessary to meet regulatory mandates, such as diesel engine emission standards and restrictions on emissions arising from diesel engine idling. We intend to continue to aggressively pursue the commercialization of our products for these and other applications in the market for electric and hybrid trucks as it emerges over the next several years. We are also supplying propulsion systems for electric buses being developed and produced by Proterra. The 37-foot Proterra composite body bus is being developed in both an all-electric battery and plug-in hybrid configuration. Proterra recently announced that they increased their production capacity to 400 buses per year at their 200,000 square foot bus manufacturing facility in Greenville, South Carolina. Proterra also recently completed the rigorous Altoona vehicle durability and full-life testing program required to sell buses to many municipal transit operators. Off-road vehicles - We have also developed electric power products for the aircraft and aerospace market and the boat and marine market. In the boat market, we have developed generators for onboard power production in hybrid-electric boats as well as electric propulsion systems. We are currently supplying electric propulsion systems to ReGen Nautic for use in the Goldfish 23 all electric eFUSION boat. Goldfish plans to deploy an additional 10 eFUSION boats this year and has plans to use our PowerPhase Pro system as part of a higher volume jet drive propulsion system. We believe that the fuel efficiency benefits of vehicle electrification can be realized in the boat and marine market. Although our focus is primarily on-road applications, we will continue to leverage our technology and products in these potentially large niche markets as opportunities present themselves. Military vehicles - The U.S. military purchases a wide-range of ground vehicles each year including combat vehicles such as tanks, self-propelled artillery and armored personnel carriers, as well as a variety of light, medium and heavy-duty trucks for convoy and supply operations and for the transport of fuel used on the battlefield. The military is particularly interested in the electrification of vehicles because the attributes that these vehicles possess offer exceptional potential for the military to achieve its long-term objectives of developing a highly mobile, lethal fighting force. Fuel economy improvements in military vehicles transfer into substantial savings in support infrastructure and transportation costs associated with transporting fuel to the battlefield, which is typically thousands of miles from the United States. For example, if fuel economy improvements of 25 percent are achieved in the average truck, a corresponding amount of fuel does not have to be transported and therefore a corresponding number of airplanes or tankers are not required in the transportation process. Also, the availability of onboard electrical power on military vehicles opens up new opportunities for the development of sophisticated surveillance, detection and battlefield monitoring equipment and for laser, microwave and electrical pulse weapon systems. It is estimated that the military purchases approximately 8,000 trucks per year and greater numbers during periods of armed conflict. As is the case with large off-road equipment, these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, operate at higher power levels, have substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. We have, over the last several years, been working with a number of military contractors and vehicle makers including DRS Technologies, AM General, BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics and others, on prototype hybrid electric vehicles, high export power generators, electric auxiliaries, DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters. Although this market has not yet emerged, we believe that it may begin to soon, driven by the availability of hybrid electric components in the commercial truck market that operate at similar power levels as those required by many military vehicles. Marketing Channels and Sales Based on the global aspect of the electrification market, UQM believes that opportunities exist on a global basis and we have developed a strategy to address markets in all regions. These regions include North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, and the Middle East. We believe each region has opportunities that lie within the markets that UQM has identified as areas of strategic growth for our company. UQM engages in several sales channels where the markets differ based on the complexity of the product. These channels consist of: Direct Sales to Original Equipment Manufacturers ("OEM"). In this environment the account team works directly with designers and manufacturers of particular applications within the Automotive, Industrial and Commercial Truck and Bus marketplace to supply off the shelf as well as custom designed solutions to customers. Tier 1 channels, where the account team engages suppliers of OEMs. In this environment, UQM provides sub-systems to the Tier 1 suppliers from a Tier 2 position. UQM's technology is integrated and validated as a system and provided to the OEM as part of the Tier 1 solution. Vehicle Integrators - This marketing channel is characterized by the development of a relationship with companies that perform vehicle development activities for automobile companies worldwide. Many of these companies have substantial autonomy to source vehicle components at the earliest stages of a vehicle development program. As a result of our multi-year relationships supplying many of these companies with our products, we have been able to develop and foster within their organizations a confidence in the performance characteristics, ease of application and durability of our products that has led to additional early stage placements of our products in automakers vehicle development programs. Conferences and Symposiums also provide marketing channels for additional product offerings. CODA Automotive Program We have a ten year Supply Agreement with CODA Automotive to supply UQM PowerPhase Pro® electric propulsion systems for their all-electric passenger sedan that was recently introduced in California. The Supply Agreement provides a framework for CODA or CODA's manufacturing partners to purchase 20,000 electric propulsion systems from us over the first two years of the program. Under the terms of the Supply Agreement, CODA or CODA's manufacturing partner will issue blanket purchase orders covering their annual purchase requirements and issue thereunder noncancellable delivery releases against the blanket order. Our Supply Agreement with CODA also provides that if CODA or its manufacturing partners, if any, do not collectively purchase 15,000 units within the first two years following the launch of production, they will be required to make specific payments to us. In September 2011 we amended the Supply Agreement to permit the recovery of neodymium magnet costs above a benchmark price stated in the amendment. CODA Automotive has announced that to date it has raised over $300 million in capital to facilitate the execution of its business plan and is currently pursuing an additional $150 million in equity capital. CODA has stated that it hopes to sell 10,000 to 14,000 vehicles in the first twelve months following the vehicle's introduction in March 2012. The CODA all-electric sedan was developed by CODA's internal team of engineers working with multiple external engineering partners, including Porsche Engineering. The vehicle has a 31kW hour battery pack and has a base price of $27,250 after applying a $7,500 federal tax credit and a $2,500 state tax credit from the State of California for qualifying buyers. Other states offer tax credits of up to $7,500 per vehicle. To date, CODA has selected four dealers in the State of California and announced its plan to select a significant number of additional dealers across North America by the end of 2012. The CODA car is powered by a 100 kW UQM PowerPhase Pro® electric propulsion system, and carries an estimated vehicle range between charges of 88 miles on the EPA test cycle and CODA reports ranges of up to 125 miles are achievable depending on individual driving habits. The onboard charger plugs into a 110V or 220V outlet and can charge for a 40-mile commute in approximately two hours (full charge in less than six hours) at 220V. CODA advertises that the CODA sedan is backed by a three-year/36,000 mile warranty and an eight-year/100,000 mile battery warranty. The CODA electric sedan chassis will be assembled and tested; incorporating the UQM® powertrain on an assembly line operated by Harbin HaFei Automobile Industry Group Co., Ltd. ("Haifei"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Chang An, one of China's largest automobile manufacturers. Final vehicle assembly and test is completed at CODA's U.S. factory in Benicia, California. CODA has announced that the battery system for the CODA passenger car is being supplied by a joint venture between CODA Automotive and Tianjin Lishen Battery Co. ("Lishen"). Lishen is one of the world's largest manufacturers of lithium-ion cells. In April 2012, CODA announced that it had signed a contract with Great Wall Motors Company ("Great Wall"), Baoding, China, to co-develop an all-electric electric vehicle intended to be the most affordable EV on the market, comparable to entry level internal combustion engine vehicles after incentives. Great Wall has approximately 42,000 employees and sold approximately 487,000 vehicles in 2011. The joint effort will blend CODA's battery technology and knowledge of the U.S. market with the expertise of one of China's fastest growing automotive producers. Under the arrangement, vehicles will be sub-assembled in Great Wall's manufacturing facilities in Baoding. Final assembly of vehicles destined for delivery in the U.S. will take place at CODA's facility in the U.S. U.S. Department of Energy Stimulus Grant We have been awarded a $45,145,534 Grant from the DOE under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Grant provides funds to facilitate the manufacture and deployment of electric drive vehicles, batteries and electric drive vehicle components in the United States. We are one of seven component manufacturers selected for an award and the only small business under the component category. Pursuant to the terms of our Grant Agreement, the DOE will reimburse 50 percent of qualifying costs incurred for the purchase of facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment, and for engineering expenditures related to product qualification and testing of our electric propulsion systems and other products. The period of the Grant is through January 12, 2015. The $45.1 million size of the Grant is based on the estimated cost of a project to implement high volume manufacturing operations provided in our application to the DOE under the Electric Drive Vehicle Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative. Funding for qualifying project costs is currently limited to $32 million until July 12, 2013, at which time we are required to provide the DOE with an updated total estimated cost of the project along with evidence of firm commitments for our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project in excess of our currently accepted cost share match of $32 million. If an extension or modification of this requirement has not occurred or all such funds have not been secured, we must submit, by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE, or the award may be terminated. The Grant is also subject to our compliance with certain reporting requirements. As specified in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, we are required to use the Grant funds in a manner that maximizes job creation and economic benefits. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the Grant Agreement impose minimum construction wages and labor standards for projects funded by the Grant and some sourcing restrictions. If we dispose of assets acquired using Grant funding, we may be required to reimburse the DOE upon such sale date if the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition exceeds $5,000. The amount of any such reimbursement shall be equal to 50 percent of the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition. While UQM has exclusive patent ownership rights for any technology developed with Grant funds, we are required to grant the DOE a non-exclusive, non-transferable, paid-up license to use such technology. The Grant has numerous benefits to the Company and its shareholders including: 1) substantially reducing the Company's cost of capital; 2) substantially mitigating the financial risk of productionizing our products and acquiring the facilities and equipment necessary to support volume production of our products; 3) substantially reducing our product qualification and testing costs; and 4) improving product margins on products manufactured on equipment subsidized by the Grant. At March 31, 2012, we had received reimbursements from the DOE under the Grant totaling $16.5 million of which $8.9 million was for capital assets and $7.6 million was reimbursements of product qualification and testing costs. We also had an amount receivable from the DOE at March 31, 2012 of $280,674 of which $37,774 represented reimbursement of capital asset purchases and $242,900 was reimbursements for product qualification and testing costs incurred. The application of Grant funds to eligible capital asset purchases under the Grant as of March 31, 2012 is as follows: Purchase Cost Grant Funding Recorded Value Land $ 896,388 448,194 448,194 Building 9,865,371 4,932,685 4,932,686 Machinery and Equipment 7,163,597 3,581,799 3,581,798 $17,925,356 8,962,678 8,962,678 Manufacturing It is our primary objective to become a major manufacturer of electric motor, generator and other power electronic products that incorporate our proprietary technology and to supply these products to electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicle manufacturers and/or their Tier 1 suppliers. To this end, in December 2009 we acquired a 129,304 square foot facility on 15 acres together with 15 acres of adjacent vacant land in Longmont, Colorado to support our expected growth in manufacturing operations. We have installed and qualified two semi-automated production cells at this facility with a two shift production capacity of up to 40,000 units per year of our automotive 100 kW and 135 kW PowerPhase Pro® electric motor and motor controller. We expect to add additional production capacity in this facility coincident with future demand. Over the last several years we have established a production engineering group with decades of manufacturing design and production experience, much of which is specific to the electric motor or automotive industries. We have adopted the Advanced Product Quality Planning ("APQP") automotive procedures for the development and volume production of our products and we are continuing to expand our production engineering group coincident with the growth in our customer base and the number of customer programs we believe will proceed to full scale production. We are also upgrading our software systems and enhancing our internal processes in anticipation of potentially rapid growth in our production volumes. We also have a production cell for the assembly of our larger frame size, higher power, lower volume prototype motors. The annual capacity of this cell is approximately 5,000 systems per shift per year. We also manufacture a truck qualified DC-to-DC converter for Eaton Corporation as part of their hybrid electric power system for the heavy truck market, as well as for other electric and hybrid electric vehicle manufacturers. We have a dedicated manufacturing cell for these systems. In order to ensure our cost competitiveness, we have adopted a manufacturing strategy for the near term of designing all product components and then sourcing these parts with quality suppliers. Final assembly, testing, pack-out and shipping of the product are performed at our Colorado facility. We have established relationships with many high-quality, low-cost suppliers, including a number of international companies. Future plans are to continue the development and introduction of more advanced and automated manufacturing systems which we believe will ensure our competitiveness in new and growing markets. Our company is currently certified under the ISO 9001:2000 quality standards. Over the next several years we expect to qualify our operations under the more difficult TS 16949 standard for the automotive sector. Product Development Activities We recently completed the development of and introduced at the Electric Vehicle Symposium in Los Angeles our production-ready PowerPhase HD® 220 electric propulsion system for the medium-duty commercial truck and bus markets. This system represents the highest peak power of any system we have developed at 220 kW (at 360 VDC) and is producible in higher volumes and at lower cost than our earlier system for these markets which was rated at 200 kW peak power. This unit was designed with emphasis on the "voice of the customer" and has been very well received worldwide. We are also working on the next generation of PowerPhase Pro® products designed to be smaller, lighter weight, more energy efficient and producible at lower cost with equal or better performance than our current PowerPhase Pro® systems. Development targets include a reduction of 50 percent in the size of the motor controller. We are also pursuing an advanced motor technology that eliminates rare-earth elements. The technology incorporates permanent magnets of an alternate chemistry, arranged in a unique way that maintains performance benefits. A patent application has been submitted to protect this innovation. UQM was also selected and awarded $3 million by the DOE in a competitive solicitation to pursue this technology. This award was announced in August 2011 and is a three-year technology development program. Our Opportunity We have developed a range of products including electric propulsion motors, generators, power electronic controllers and other power electronic products that we believe are ideally suited to the growing markets for electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. We believe that the recent launch of high volume manufacturing of our PowerPhase Pro® 100 kW electric propulsion system for CODA Automotive gives us a substantial "first mover" advantage as a Tier 1 supplier to the clean vehicle market. Specifically, the introduction of our products that have been fully automotive qualified in commercial quantities will provide substantial economies of scale, permitting us to achieve production costs and pricing that will be difficult for others who have not launched similar high volume production to compete with. We expect that this pricing and product availability advantage will allow us to further expand the roster of automobile makers who select our propulsion systems for their future vehicle programs. In addition to the passenger automobile market, vehicle makers of all types have been evaluating the potential of applying electric and hybrid electric technology to their vehicle platforms. Of these manufacturers, medium and heavy-duty truck and bus builders and military manufacturers have been the most active, driven by the performance and fuel economy advantages available from this technology, the need for large amounts of onboard and exportable power and new federal standards requiring fuel economy improvements of 10% to 20%. We believe that these industry developments signal the beginning of a potentially large-scale deployment of electric propulsion and related electronic products into markets beyond mass-market passenger automobiles. Should these products receive broad customer acceptance, as we expect they will, additional opportunities will likely develop over time for our company. In the past, we have supplied our electric propulsion systems and generators to small niche developers of electrically powered vehicles or as part of technology development and assessment programs by the U.S. government, and larger commercial customers. However, over the last few years, we have supplied our propulsion systems to numerous international automotive manufacturers as part of their electric and hybrid electric vehicle development activities, including publicly announced fleet build or vehicle development programs with Audi, Saab and Rolls Royce. Should any of these automakers elect to utilize our products in future model launches, it would have a material impact on our future rate of growth. We have invested substantial amounts of human resource and capital on establishing the manufacturing infrastructure to meet CODA requirements as well as the potential production requirements of our other existing and future customers. As the markets for our customers' clean vehicles expand, we expect to make additional investments in support of our strategy to aggressively introduce automotive certified products to satisfy our customers' requirements. We also expect to experience potentially rapid growth in our revenue coincident with the introduction of electric products by our customers. In parallel to these activities in the automotive market, we expect to continue to pursue additional production opportunities for our proprietary technology in existing markets where the performance of our products can provide our customers with a competitive advantage in the markets they serve. Business Segments At the beginning of this fiscal year, we merged our wholly-owned subsidiary UQM Power Products, Inc. into UQM Technologies, Inc. As a result of this merger, the operations of each of these entities are no longer managed or reported upon to management separately, and accordingly, the Company is no longer presenting segment information in its financial statements. In previous fiscal year we had two reportable segments: technology and power products. These reportable segments were strategic business units that offered different products and services. They were managed separately because each business required different business strategies. The technology segment encompassed our technology-based operations including core research to advance our technology, application and production engineering and product development and job shop production of prototype components. The power products segment encompassed the manufacture and sale of motors and electronic controllers. Competition All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid changes due to technological advances that can render existing technologies and products obsolete. We develop advanced electric propulsion systems and components which we hope to market to vehicle Original Equipment Manufacturers ("OEMs") and their Tier 1 suppliers throughout the world for use in electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. In recent years, the market for hybrid electric automobiles has begun to emerge, led by the introduction and market success of hybrid electric vehicles manufactured by Toyota, Honda, Ford and General Motors and others. In the commercial vehicle markets, International Truck and Engine Corporation, Freightliner Trucks and Paccar offer hybrid electric medium-duty trucks and Caterpillar, Inc. produces a belt-less engine/electric tracked bulldozer. As a result, additional vehicle makers in both on-road and off-road markets are expected to develop and introduce a variety of hybrid electric and all-electric vehicles as the market acceptance of these vehicles continues to grow. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or any other market that now exists or may develop in the future. There are numerous companies developing products that do or soon will compete with our systems. Some of these companies possess significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources than we do, including established supply arrangements and volume manufacturing operations. We believe our principal competitors include Toyota, Honda, General Motors, Hitachi, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi, Danaher, Enova, Continental, Magna, Remy, and Bosch. Patents We hold several groups or families of patents. U.S. Patent No. 5,592,731 and U.S. Patent No. 5,382,859 relate to a stator for high-power density electric motors and generators, and a method of constructing the same. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,677,605 discloses and claims a brushless motor and drive system using phase timing advancement. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,982,063 discloses and claims an electric motor having an internal brake. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 6,522,130 discloses and claims a method for controlling a brushless electric motor having a rotor, and relates to an accurate method for sensing rotor position and detecting rotational speed over a broad range of speeds. U.S. Patent No. 6,693,422 is a related U.S. patent entitled "Accurate Rotor Position Sensor and Method Using Magnet and Sensors Mounted Adjacent to the Magnet and Motor". Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. In 2007, we filed patent applications for a stator design in the United States, Canada, and Europe. The U.S. and Canadian applications have granted as U.S. Patent No. 7,755,244 and CA 2,615,111, respectively. The European application is currently pending. In 2007, we filed patent applications for a permanent magnet rotor geometry for permanent magnet electric motors in the United States, Canada, and Europe. The United States application issued as U.S. Patent No. 7,598,645. The Canadian application issued as CA 2,615,111. The European application is currently pending. In January 2010, we filed a U.S. patent application for a distributed generation power system having an integrated electric utility meter and inverter system, including the physical design, placement and interconnection of the integrated electric utility and inverter system. Corresponding patent applications were filed in Europe and Canada. These patent applications were abandoned in fiscal 2012, and we recorded an impairment charge of $27,845. In November 2010, we filed a US patent application for a rotor for a permanent magnet electric machine. This application is pending. Corresponding patent applications have been filed in Europe and Canada. In 2011 and 2012, we filed a U.S. and a PCT international application for a brushless PM machine construction enabling low coercivity magnets. These applications are still pending. Trademarks We have registered the letters "UQM" in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Counterpart applications have been filed in numerous countries throughout the world, most of which have granted registrations or indicated them to be allowable. We own three U.S. Trademark Registrations for "UQM" (International Class 7 for power transducers, Class 12 for utility land vehicles, and Class 16 for publications). The foreign trademark registrations and applications include major markets where we are doing business or establishing business contacts. We have also registered the trademark "POWERPHASE" which we use in conjunction with certain of our propulsion systems. The trademark is registered in the European Community and several other foreign countries. Financial Information about Geographic Areas The following summarizes total revenue by geographic area: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 United States 7,774,946 6,544,485 6,909,152 Foreign Countries 2,368,510 2,476,817 1,782,801 10,143,456 9,021,302 8,691,953 The geographic area revenue is derived from is based upon the country the purchase transaction originates in. Backlog We had unperformed service contracts from customers, which will provide future revenue upon completion totaling approximately $1.4 million at April 30, 2012 versus $0.3 million at April 30, 2011. Our order backlog for products at April 30, 2012 was approximately $11.5 million versus $3.4 million at April 30, 2011. Many orders are issued to us as blanket purchase orders subject to the issuance of subsequent release orders which direct the number and timing of actual deliveries. Substantially all of the backlog amounts at April 30, 2012 and 2011 are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to complete all unperformed service contracts over the next ten months and ship motor and controller backlog products over the next twelve months. Customers and Suppliers We have historically derived significant revenue from a few key customers. Revenue from CODA totaled $4,313,728, $1,301,224 and $573,250 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing 43 percent, 14 percent, and 7 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented 61 percent and 16 percent of consolidated total accounts receivable at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for CODA were 76 percent and 38 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Principal raw materials and components purchased by us include iron, steel, electronic components, magnets and copper wire. Most of these items are available from several suppliers. Certain components used by us are custom designs and if our current supplier no longer made them available to us, we could experience production delays. Since the beginning of calendar year 2011 we have experienced significant price escalation in the cost of magnets used in our motors, which contain the rare-earth elements neodymium and dysprosium. These price increases have been driven primarily by changes in government policy in China, where our magnets are made. The price of neodymium and dysprosium have decreased materially from their peak price in the summer of 2011 according to data published by metal-pages.com, but are nevertheless, still well above the base line prices at the beginning of calendar year 2011. We have not experienced any disruption in supply. We may continue to experience volatile pricing over the next few years until mining operations outside of China increase or restart. U.S. Government Contracts Revenue derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government and from subcontracts with U.S. Government prime contractors was $684,489, or 7 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2012, $1,112,307, or 12 percent of our consolidated total revenue for the year ended March 31, 2011, and $2,488,321 or 29 percent of our consolidated total revenue for the year ended March 31, 2010. Accounts receivable from government-funded contracts represented 9 percent and 49 percent of total accounts receivable as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Of these amounts, revenue derived from subcontracts with AM General LLC totaled $55,724, $792,508 and $1,807,063 which represented 1 percent, 9 percent, and 21 percent of our consolidated total revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This customer also represented 2 percent and nil of consolidated total accounts receivable at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We had insignificant inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for AM General LLC at both March 31, 2012 and 2011. Some of our business with the U.S. Government was performed on a cost plus fixed fee basis. These contracts provide for reimbursement of costs, to the extent allocable and allowable under applicable regulations, and payment of a fee. Certain other contracts with the U.S. Government provide for the reimbursement of costs on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis and have not-to-exceed billing rates negotiated between the U.S. Government and us. Other U.S. Government business is performed under firm fixed price contracts. On "cost-share" and "firm fixed price" contracts, we can incur an actual loss in the performance thereof if incurred costs exceed the contract amount. All of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification or cancellation at the convenience of the Government. We have a Grant for $45,145,534 with the DOE under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Grant provides funds to facilitate the manufacture and deployment of electric drive vehicles, batteries and electric drive vehicle components in the United States. Pursuant to the terms of the Assistance Agreement, the DOE will reimburse us for 50 percent of qualifying costs incurred for the purchase of facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment, and for engineering related to product qualification and testing of our electric propulsion systems and other products. The period of the Grant is through January 12, 2015. Funding for qualifying project costs incurred is currently limited to $32.0 million until July 12, 2013 at which time we are required to provide the DOE an updated total estimated cost of the project along with evidence of firm commitments for our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project in excess of our currently accepted cost-share match of $32.0 million. If an extension or modification of this requirement has not occurred or all such funds have not been secured, we must submit by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE, or the award may be terminated. If we dispose of assets acquired using Grant funding, we may be required to reimburse the DOE upon such sale date if the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition exceeds $5,000. The amount of any such reimbursement shall be equal to 50 percent of the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition. At March 31, 2012 we had received reimbursements from the DOE under the Grant totaling $16.5 million of which $8.9 million was for capital assets and $7.6 million was reimbursements of product qualification and testing costs. We also had an amount receivable from the DOE at March 31, 2012 of $280,674 of which $242,900 represented reimbursement for product qualification and testing costs incurred. The application of Grant funds to eligible capital asset purchases under the Grant as of March 31, 2012 is as follows: Purchase Cost Grant Funding Recorded Value Land $ 896,388 448,194 448,194 Building 9,865,371 4,932,685 4,932,686 Machinery and Equipment 7,163,597 3,581,799 3,581,798 $ 17,925,356 8,962,678 8,962,678 The application of Grant funds to eligible capital assets purchases under the Grant as of March 31, 2011 is as follows: Purchase Cost Grant Funding Recorded Value Land $ 896,388 448,194 448,194 Building 9,611,560 4,805,780 4,805,780 Machinery and Equipment 5,437,965 2,718,982 2,718,983 $ 15,945,913 7,972,956 7,972,957 We also have a $4.0 million program with the DOE to develop non-rare-earth magnet electric motors for use in electric and hybrid vehicles. The DOE is providing $3.0 million of funding for this three year program and the Company is providing $1.0 million of cost-share contribution. The objective of the program is to identify and evaluate magnet materials and technology that can deliver performance comparable to our rare-earth magnet motors, broaden our product portfolio, potentially lower magnet costs and limit our exposure to price and supply concerns associated with rare-earth magnets. Employee and Labor Relations As of April 30, 2012, we had 84 total employees, of whom 82 are full-time employees. We have entered into employment contracts with all of our executive officers. Two of these contracts expire on August 22, 2012, one agreement expires on August 31, 2015, one agreement expires on November 30, 2014 and one expires on May 31, 2015. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relationship with employees has been generally satisfactory. In addition to our full-time staff, we from time to time engage the services of outside consultants and contract employees to meet peak workload or specialized program requirements. We do not anticipate any difficulty in locating additional qualified engineers, technicians and production workers, if so required, to meet expanded research and development or manufacturing operations. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Anyone seeking information about our business can receive copies of our FY2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Annual Report to Shareholders, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports and other documents, filed with the SEC at the public reference section of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. These documents also may be obtained, free of charge, by: contacting our Investor Relations office by e-mail at investor@uqm.com; by phone at (303) 682-4900; writing to UQM Technologies, Inc., Investor Relations, 4120 Specialty Place, Longmont, CO 80504-5400; or accessing our website at www.uqm.com. We make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish the materials electronically with the SEC. To obtain any of this information, go to www.uqm.com, select "Investor Relations" and select the form you would like to access. Our website also includes our Audit Committee Charter, Governance Committee Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as well as the procedures for reporting a violation of business ethics. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS toc* We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our operations. The risks, uncertainties and other factors set forth below may cause our actual results, performances or achievements to be materially different from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. If any of these risks or events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. We have incurred significant losses and may continue to do so. We have incurred significant net losses as shown in the following tables: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012 2011 2010 Net loss $ 4,928,520 $ 1,992,358 $ 4,140,872 As of March 31, 2012 we had an accumulated deficit of $80,486,989. In the future, we plan to make additional investments in product development, facilities and equipment and other costs related to the commercialization of our products. As a result, we expect to continue to incur net losses at least through March 31, 2013 and potentially beyond, although the level of our losses may decline as revenue from our Supply Agreement with CODA increases. Our operating losses, anticipated capital expenditures and working capital requirements in the longer term may exceed our current cash balances. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was $4,928,520 versus a net loss for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 of $1,992,358 and $4,140,872, respectively. At March 31, 2012, our cash and short-term investments totaled $12,120,849. We expect our losses to continue through at least March 31, 2013 and potentially beyond, although the level of our losses may decline as revenue from our Supply Agreement with CODA increases. Our existing cash resources, together with funding expected from our ARRA grant should be sufficient to complete our business plan for at least the next eighteen months. Should those resources be insufficient, we may need to secure additional debt or equity funding, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not satisfy the terms of our U.S. Department of Energy grant, we may not receive all of the $45.1 million grant we were awarded and may be required to return amounts already paid to us under the grant. We have a $45.1 million Grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act's Electric Drive Vehicle Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative with the U.S. Department of Energy. We have received funding of $16.5 million under this Grant as of March 31, 2012. This Grant is subject to terms and conditions specified in the agreement between us and the DOE. We are required to make a cash investment on a dollar-for-dollar matching basis to receive funds under this Grant. If we are unable to match the total amount of the $45.1 million Grant with funding from non-Federal sources, we will be unable to take advantage of the entire award, and could become ineligible for continued participation in the program. The reimbursement of qualified costs under the award is currently limited to $32.0 million. On or before July 12, 2013, we are required to provide to the DOE an updated total estimated cost of the project along with firm commitments to fund our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project above the $32.0 million of matching funds we have previously received credit for. If an extension or modification of this requirement has not occurred or all such funds have not been secured, we must submit, by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE, or the Grant may be terminated. In addition, the award may be terminated at any time at the convenience of the government. Although we expect to satisfy the requirement in the Grant, we cannot assure that this requirement will be satisfied and the contract will not be terminated prior to receiving all of the proceeds. CODA may not purchase from us all of the 20,000 systems provided for under its Supply Agreement. We have executed a Supply Agreement with CODA that provides a framework for CODA, or its manufacturing partner, to purchase from us 20,000 electric propulsion systems for use in automobiles to be manufactured by CODA during the initial two-year term of the agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, CODA will issue blanket purchase orders covering their annual purchase requirements and specifying the timing of delivery for such units, with a portion of the delivery schedule considered to be "firm" and noncancellable. If CODA, or its manufacturing partner, does not purchase at least 15,000 units under the CODA Supply Agreement, CODA may be required to make specific payments to us. For example, if CODA is unsuccessful in the development of its electric automobile, CODA would not be obligated to purchase electric propulsion systems from us, but CODA would then be obligated to make the payments specified in the contract to us. While these specific payments would cover much of our capital costs in preparing to supply electric propulsion systems to CODA, the payments are substantially less than the amount we would receive for sales of systems under the Supply Agreement. In addition, CODA may not have adequate funds to make any such payments to us or may otherwise contest its obligation to pay, and as a result it is possible that we may never receive any such funds. CODA may also terminate the Supply Agreement for any number of reasons. We may experience challenges in launching production of electric propulsion systems on the scale envisioned under the CODA Supply Agreement. Although we have installed and qualified production lines and begun production on these lines, we have not ever produced electric propulsion systems on the scale necessary to fulfill our obligations under the CODA Supply Agreement. We also may need to hire additional personnel as production volumes for CODA increase. We may encounter difficulties and challenges in ramping-up our operations. If we are unable to successfully increase our production volumes coincident with CODA's delivery requirements we could breach our Supply Agreement. If any such difficulties are encountered during production launch it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is highly concentrated among a small number of customers. A large percentage of our revenue is typically derived from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue and intensify as production under the CODA Supply Agreement increases. CODA may become the source of a substantial portion of our revenue in at least the near-term. The magnitude of this revenue is dependent on CODA's ability to introduce and sell its passenger vehicle in commercial volumes. Our customer arrangements generally are non-exclusive, have no long-term volume commitments and are often done on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods will continue to purchase our products. Accordingly, our revenue and results of operations may vary substantially from period to period. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to cease doing business with us, significantly reduce or delay its purchases from us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business relies on third parties, whose success we cannot predict. As a manufacturer of motors, generators, and other component parts, our business model depends on the ability of third parties in our industry to develop, produce and market products that include or are compatible with our technology and then to sell these products into the marketplace. Our ability to generate revenue depends significantly on the commercial success of our customers and partners. Failure of these third parties to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our products and fluctuations in the timing and volume of such sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our electric propulsion systems use rare-earth minerals and unavailability or limited supply of these minerals could prevent us from manufacturing our products in production quantities or increase our costs. Neodymium, a rare-earth mineral, is a key ingredient used in the production of magnets that are a component of our electric propulsion systems. We currently source our magnets from China, and China has indicated its intent to retain more of this mineral for the use of Chinese companies, rather than exporting it. Since the beginning of calendar 2011 we have experienced a significant price escalation in the cost of magnets used in our motors, which contain the rare-earth elements neodymium and dysprosium. The price escalation is primarily due to changes in government policy in China. Although prices have decreased materially since peaking in the summer of 2011 they are nevertheless, still well above the baseline prices at the beginning of calendar year 2011. We have amended our supply agreement with CODA to pass a substantial portion of our increased magnet purchase costs through to CODA in the form of a surcharge and have implemented a magnet surcharge for all of our other customers to recover these escalated costs. Although neodymium iron boron magnets are available from other sources, these alternative sources are currently more costly. Reduced availability of neodymium from China could adversely affect our ability to obtain magnets in sufficient quantities, in a timely manner, or at a commercially reasonable cost. In the event that China's actions cause us to seek alternate sources of supply for magnets, it could cause an increase in our production costs thereby reducing or eliminating our profit margin on electric propulsion systems if we are unable to pass the increase in our production costs on to our customers. Increasing prices to our customers due to escalating magnet costs may reduce demand for our motors and make it difficult or impossible to compete with other motor manufacturers whose motors do not use rare-earth minerals. Some of our contracts can be cancelled with little or no notice and could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Our contracts with government agencies are subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency and in some cases grant "march-in" rights to the government. March-in rights are the right of the United States government or the applicable government agency, under limited circumstances, to exercise a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable worldwide license to any technology developed under contracts funded by the government to facilitate commercialization of technology developed with government funding. March-in rights can be exercised if we fail to commercialize the developed technology. The exercise of march-in rights by the government or an agency of the government could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Some of our orders for the future delivery of products are placed under blanket purchase orders which may be cancelled by our customers at any time. The amount payable to us, if any, upon cancellation by the customer varies by customer. Accordingly, we may not recognize as revenue all or any portion of the amount of outstanding order backlog we have reported. We face intense competition and may be unable to compete successfully. In developing electric motors for use in vehicles and other applications, we face competition from very large domestic and international companies, including the world's largest automobile manufacturers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources to apply to research and development efforts than we have, and they may independently develop motors that are technologically more advanced than ours. These competitors also have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. For these reasons, potential customers may choose to purchase electric motors from our competitors rather than from us. In addition, the U.S. government has awarded substantial financial grants under the stimulus bill to several large companies who compete with us. To the extent that some of these competitors received awards under the stimulus bill in amounts greater than we have, could adversely impact our ability to compete. Our business depends, in part, on the expansion of the market for hybrid electric vehicles and the future introduction and growth of a market for all-electric vehicles. Although our electric propulsion systems may be used in a wide variety of products, the market for electric and hybrid vehicles is fairly new. At the present time, batteries used to power electric motors have limited life and require several hours to charge, and charging stations for electric motors are not widely available. Electric and hybrid vehicles also tend to be priced higher than comparable gasoline-powered vehicles. As a result, consumers may experience concerns about driving range limitations, battery charging time and higher purchase costs of electric or hybrid automobiles. If consumer preferences shift to vehicles powered by other alternative methods, or if concerns about the availability of charging stations cannot be overcome, the market for all-electric cars, and therefore our electric propulsion systems, may be limited. In addition, our electric propulsion systems are incorporated in buses used for mass transit in several U.S. cities. If passenger traffic in these mass transit systems declines or government funding to transportation districts declines from current levels, demand for our products may also decrease. The popularity of alternative fuel based vehicles and "green energy" initiatives are highly dependent on macro-economic conditions, including oil prices and the overall health of the economy. When oil prices fall, interest in and resources allocated to the development of advanced technology vehicles and propulsion systems may diminish. Downturns in the world economy may also have a severe impact on the automotive industry, slowing the demand for vehicles generally and reducing consumers' willingness to pay more for environmentally friendly technology. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business may not grow. Although we believe our proprietary systems are suited for a wide-range of vehicle electrification applications, our business and financial plan relies heavily on the introduction of new products that have limited testing in the marketplace. We are currently making substantial investments in human resources, manufacturing facilities and equipment, production and application engineering, among other things, to ramp up our production capacity in order to capitalize on the anticipated expansion in demand for electric propulsion systems and generators in the automobile and light truck markets. Our sales of electric propulsion systems and generators in the automobile and light truck markets to date have consisted of limited quantities of preproduction evaluation and field test units. We are not certain that our existing products will achieve broad market acceptance, or that we will be able to develop new products or product enhancements that will achieve broad market acceptance. Changes in environmental policies could hurt the market for our products. The market for electric and other alternative fuel vehicles and equipment and the demand for our products are influenced, to a degree, by federal, state and local regulations relating to air quality, greenhouse gases and pollutants. These laws and regulations may change, which could result in transportation or equipment manufacturers abandoning or delaying their interest in electric or hybrid electric vehicles or equipment. In addition, a failure by authorities to enforce current laws and regulations or to adopt additional environmental laws or regulations could limit the demand for our products. Although many governments have identified as a significant priority the development of alternative energy sources, governments may change their priorities, and any change they make could materially affect our revenue or the development of our products. If we are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary technology, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would impair our competitiveness and ability to commercialize our products. In addition, the cost of enforcing our proprietary rights may be expensive and result in increased losses. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We have historically pursued patent protection in the United States and a limited number of foreign countries where we believe significant markets for our products exist or where potentially significant competitors have operations. It is possible that a substantial market could develop in a country where we have not received patent protection and under such circumstances our proprietary products would not be afforded legal protection in these markets. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We cannot assure that additional patents will be issued to us or, if they are issued, as to the scope of their protection. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action, it would divert funds and resources which otherwise could be used in our operations and we may not be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we may operate or sell our products in the future. If third parties assert technology infringement claims against us, the defense of the claims could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time and attention from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our results of operations may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Use of our motors in vehicles could subject us to product liability claims or product recalls, and product liability insurance claims could cause an increase in our insurance rates or could exceed our insurance limits, which could impair our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The automotive industry experiences significant product liability claims. As a supplier of electric propulsion systems or other products to vehicle OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our systems or components caused an accident. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. The sale of systems and components for the transportation industry entails a high risk of these claims, which may increase as our production and sales increase. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving these systems if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. We carry product liability insurance of $10 million covering most of our products. If we were to experience a large insured loss, it might exceed our coverage limits, or our insurance carriers could decline to further cover us or raise our insurance rates to unacceptable levels, any of which could impair our financial position and results of operations. Any product liability claim brought against us also could have a material adverse effect on our reputation. We may be subject to warranty claims, and our provision for warranty costs may not be sufficient. We may be subject to warranty claims for defects or alleged defects in our products, and the risk of such claims arising will increase as our production and sales increase. In addition, in response to consumer demand, vehicle manufacturers have been providing, and may continue to provide, increasingly longer warranty periods for their products. As a consequence, these manufacturers may require their suppliers, such as us, to provide correspondingly longer product warranties. As a result, we could incur substantially greater warranty claims in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS toc* None. 