Item 1A. Risk Factors. Overview UQM Technologies, Inc., ("UQM") is a developer and manufacturer of power dense, high efficiency electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers for the automotive, aerospace, military and industrial markets. Our primary focus is incorporating our advanced technology into products for the growing market for increasingly cleaner and more fuel efficient vehicles that is expected to experience rapid growth over the next ten years and beyond. Key to this objective is the development of products for clean vehicles including propulsion systems for electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles, onboard charging products, under-the-hood power accessories and other vehicle auxiliary components. Our headquarters and manufacturing facility is located in Longmont, Colorado. The global automotive market is experiencing substantial change driven by a number of factors including changing consumer preferences, global macro-economic and geo-political developments, the high price of gasoline, increasing competition and additional governmental regulation and incentives. As a result of these factors, particularly, carbon dioxide standards in Europe and the Corporate Average Fuel Economy ("CAFE") standards in the United States, automakers are developing and introducing, or planning to introduce additional vehicle models with increasing levels of electrification including serial and parallel hybrid-electric vehicles ("HEV's"), plug-in hybrid electric vehicles ("PHEV's") and all-electric vehicles ("EV's"). These vehicles offer improved energy equivalent gas mileage, lower operating and repair costs and reduced or no tailpipe emissions. Further, governments around the globe have launched initiatives to subsidize the cost of developing clean vehicles and the components used by them including motors and generators, batteries, and power management systems. Government incentives have also been adopted to encourage the purchase of HEV's, PHEV's and EV's by consumers in many developed nations around the world, including a $7,500 federal tax credit in the United States and tax credits in several states of up to $6,000 for purchases of qualifying vehicles, in Europe fifteen of twenty-seven European Union member states provide tax incentives for electrically chargeable vehicles and China has a trial program to offer incentives of up to 60,000 Yuan (approximately $9,240 USD) for the private purchase of a new battery electric vehicle and 50,000 Yuan (approximately $7,700 USD) for the purchase of PHEV in five cities. Several automobile manufacturers have indicated that they expect these factors to result in the growth of hybrid vehicle models to over 20% of vehicle sales in 2020 and one international automaker has stated that it expects all-electric vehicles to capture up to a 5% market share by 2020. We make propulsion system products, generators and related auxiliary components for EV's HEV's and PHEV's. We market our products in many segments of the transportation sector including passenger vehicles and light trucks, commercial trucks and buses, off-road vehicles including agricultural and construction equipment and military vehicles. We believe our proprietary permanent magnet propulsion motor and motor control technology delivers exceptional performance at a highly competitive cost. Our principal products include propulsion motors and generators with power ratings from 50 kilowatts to 200 kilowatts, auxiliary motors and electronic controls, DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters that convert direct current to usable alternating current. The principal attributes of our products that we believe differentiate our proprietary products are compact size, high torque delivery, high power density (the ratio of power output to weight) and high energy efficiency. We believe we are well-positioned to participate in the expanding worldwide market for clean vehicles. In addition to our portfolio of high performance products, we have taken a number of steps over the last several years to position the company to meet the needs of our automotive customers including; 1) adding additional technical and manufacturing resources and capability; 2) designing, installing and qualifying volume production lines for our motors and generators and their related electronic controllers; 3) establishing a global sourcing capability; 4) enhancing our logistics, production and administrative processes to support higher volumes of manufacturing operations, and 5) relocating our headquarters and manufacturing operations into a 129,304 square foot, world-class facility with 15 adjacent acres for future expansion. In June, 2010 we entered into a ten year Supply Agreement with CODA Automotive to supply UQM PowerPhase Pro® electric propulsion systems for CODA's all-electric four-door sedan. Throughout FY 2011 we delivered preproduction systems that have been incorporated in development and test vehicles and other test fleet and marketing vehicles. CODA has announced that it expects to begin sales of its passenger car to fleets and consumers in the State of California in the second half of calendar year 2011. We have also completed supply agreements and began shipments to Proterra, Inc., a developer and manufacturer of all-electric composite transit buses and Electric Vehicles International a developer and manufacturer of all-electric medium-duty delivery trucks. Our electric propulsion systems are powering several development vehicles including the all-electric Audi A1 e-tron, Saab 9-3 ePower and the Rolls Royce 102EX Phantom car. Our propulsion system and generator have also been used by Citroen in a hybrid-electric rally car. In addition to these programs, the company is supplying its electric propulsion systems and generators to numerous other international automakers and entrepreneurial automobile developers as part of their HEV, PHEV and EV vehicle development programs. We have been awarded a $45.1 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA"). The objective of the grant is to accelerate the commercialization of products and the installation of manufacturing infrastructure necessary for the deployment of electric vehicles, batteries and components in the United States. Capital expenditures for facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment and the qualification and testing of products associated with the launch of volume production for CODA Automotive and other production intent customers qualify for 50 percent reimbursement under the DOE program. Our ability to utilize funding from this grant has allowed us to accelerate the productionization of our product portfolio and install volume production lines and other infrastructure providing us with a significant advantage over other motor manufactures and competitors who do not have access to such funds. We also have a marketing collaboration with BorgWarner (NYSE:BWA) on electric powertrain products for all-electric and hybrid electric passenger automobiles. Under this arrangement, our respective companies provide leads to and recommend each other's products where appropriate, to those customers seeking electric powertrain products. We expect that BorgWarner's global reach in the automotive industry will bring a higher level of visibility to our electric propulsion system products and result in additional business opportunities with automobile customers worldwide. In addition, we have forged relationships with several vehicle integration companies around the world who have developed extensive knowledge about the performance characteristics and capability of our proprietary products. Vehicle integration companies are typically retained by automobile manufacturers to develop concept cars and technology development vehicles. Our relationships with integration companies provide an invaluable marketing channel for the placement of our products in early-stage development vehicles, which we believe, greatly enhances the opportunity for our products to be selected for the production launch of many of these vehicles. We derive our revenue from two principal sources: 1) the manufacture and sale of products engineered by us; and 2) funded contract research and development services performed for strategic partners, customers and the U.S. government directed toward either the advancement of our proprietary technology portfolio or the application of our proprietary technology to customers' products. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 total revenue rose 3.8 percent to $9,021,302 and our net loss for the fiscal year declined by 51.9 percent to $1,992,358 or $0.06 per common share. Electrification of Vehicles Potentially large markets are developing as a result of the electrification of a wide-range of vehicle platforms. Increased electrification is being pursued for a variety of application specific reasons including: 1) changing consumer preferences, 2) global macro-economic and geo-political developments, 3) the high price of gasoline, 4) increasing competition, and 5) additional governmental regulation and incentives. Of these reasons, additional governmental regulations and incentives has emerged as a significant factor in the development and potential rate of growth of the emerging vehicle electrification markets and is being reinforced by rising crude oil prices and higher gasoline and diesel prices. This trend toward higher fuel prices is expected to continue for the foreseeable future, driven by tight supply levels, geopolitical turmoil in key oil producing countries and expected future increases in world demand, driven principally by escalating consumption of fossil fuels by developing countries such as China and India. In addition, government regulations mandating reductions in pollutants from diesel engines are expected to further accelerate the trend toward electrification as increasingly stringent regulations continue to be proposed and adopted. In 2010, the U.S. government announced its intention to implement new regulations extending fuel economy standards to medium- and heavy-duty trucks for the first time beginning with model year 2014. CAFE standards will increase by 40 percent requiring the average fuel economy of each manufacturer's passenger car and light truck model offerings to be 34.1 miles per gallon by 2016. Preliminary rulemaking for stricter standards in later years is currently underway. Other recent U.S. Government legislation provides incentives for the production and sale of environmentally friendly vehicles, including the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing Incentive Program and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2010. A partial listing of some of the more notable provisions of this legislation includes: Federal and state tax credits for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles Low cost loans to manufacturers and component suppliers to purchase infrastructure and develop manufacturing capacity for clean vehicles and components used in these vehicles Funding for government agencies to acquire environmentally friendly vehicles Grants for the development of clean vehicles and clean vehicle component technology Grants for the development of a "smart" electric grid In November 2010, General Electric announced its plan to purchase 25,000 electrified vehicles by 2015, representing the largest commercial order for environmentally friendly vehicles ever placed. In March, 2011 President Obama announced a directive to government agencies to ensure that by 2015, all new vehicles they purchase will be alternative-fuel vehicles, including hybrid and electric vehicles. The Federal government operates more than 600,000 fleet vehicles In addition, China is in the process of approving a plan that would provide $100 billion Yuan (approximately $15 billion USD) over ten years for investment in core technologies related to all-electric and hybrid electric vehicles. The electrification of conventional vehicles, ranging from passenger vehicles and over-the-road trucks, to off-road vehicles such as agricultural tractors, construction equipment and military vehicles, can potentially offer improvements in fuel economy and emissions. The electrification of vehicles can range from simply replacing inefficient belt and gear driven under-the-hood auxiliaries (water pump, power steering, HVAC compressor drives, cooling fans etc.) with efficient electric powered ones, to eliminating the internal combustion engine entirely and replacing it with full electric propulsion such as in a battery or fuel cell powered vehicle. Improvements to fuel efficiency resulting from electrification will initially add to the cost of a vehicle, although part of this cost will be offset by lower operating and maintenance costs. With rising fuel prices and government incentives, vehicle makers are finding it much more feasible to justify this added complexity and cost. Numerous studies have been conducted over the last several years indicating the potential for electric vehicles to capture significant market share over the next five to ten years. Table 1 summarizes the forecasts of these studies: We believe that the trend toward increasing electrification of vehicles will continue at an accelerated pace providing a substantial opportunity for the broad commercial application of our products. Technology Our technology base includes a number of proprietary technologies and patents related to brushless permanent magnet motors, generators and power electronic controllers, together with software code to intelligently manage the operation of our systems. The operating characteristics of electric motors for vehicle propulsion are different from those of more conventional industrial motors. Propulsion motors ideally deliver high levels of torque efficiently at variable rotational speeds and possess the ability to transition from high torque to high speed over a relatively constant power curve allowing, in many cases, the elimination of conventional transmissions. Our proprietary propulsion systems have been specifically developed for these applications and deliver exceptional torque and high rotational speeds in a compact, energy efficient machine. The typical architecture of a UQM® electric machine (motor/generator) consists of a stator winding employing a high pole count configuration, which allows for high copper utilization (minimizing energy loss and cost), and a rotor that contains powerful rare earth permanent magnets. Commutation of the machine is accomplished electronically by sensing the position of the rotor in relation to the stator and intelligently pulsing electrical energy into the stator such that the electric field generated by the stator interacts with the magnetic field of the rotor, producing rotational motion (motor operation). Conversely, the application of rotational motion by an external force results in the generation of electrical power (generator operation). UQM® machines can be operated in either a forward or reverse direction of rotation and either in motor or generator mode and can dynamically change from one mode of operation to another in millisecond response time. The design features inherent to the electric machine contribute to lower usage of copper, iron and other materials generally (due to smaller package dimensions), reducing manufacturing costs compared to conventional machines of similar power. UQM® machines have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. These attributes have allowed us to price our advanced motors and controls competitively with lesser performing conventional motors and controls, which we believe will accelerate the rate of commercialization of our technology. Attributes of our microprocessor-based digital power electronic controllers include high power operation (up to 600 amps at 400 volts), four-quadrant control (forward/reverse and motoring/generating), reduced switching losses relative to conventional technology, adaptive switch timing control and controller area network ("CAN") capability. As a result, UQM® controllers have high operating efficiencies, high power density (high power output to weight ratio) and generally have smaller external dimensions and weight for a given power output, improving packaging. The UQM® embedded digital signal processor (DSP) software is the intelligence that coordinates the interaction between the motor/generator and controller, as well as interfacing with a vehicle controller. Software control algorithms are an important part of the Company's intellectual property portfolio. One aspect of the software is a patented method of control referred to as Phase Timing Advancement that enables UQM® motors to deliver both high output torque at low operating speeds and high power at increasing operating speeds. We have extended the capability of Phase Advance Control by using Adaptive Control techniques. These proprietary software algorithms alter the switching strategy as a function of DC voltage, operating speed, output power and temperature to optimize system performance under dynamically changing conditions. The result is maximized output and efficiency that decreases fuel consumption in hybrid electric vehicles and increases the range of battery electric vehicles. The Company's software also optimizes the output per unit of voltage and current, maximizing the utilization of the onboard stored energy and other electrical devices by extracting power from substantially the entire electrical cycle of the motor/generator. The development and application of these proprietary control algorithms have allowed us to continue increasing the peak and continuous power output and the efficiency of our systems. In addition, our controllers now have user configurable functionality and increased data transmission speeds and response times, improving vehicle capability. Included in this functionality is the ability to switch between torque, speed, and voltage control dynamically, which is especially useful for parallel hybrids and generator applications of our technology. For vehicle developers, our Graphical User Interface provides the means to tailor UQM® systems to create the desired driving experience. Desired propulsion attributes consist of high torque to launch the vehicle from a standing-stop, with a subsequent transition to high power as the vehicle is accelerated to highway speeds. In the majority of conventional internal combustion engine powered vehicles, the transition from high torque to high power is accomplished through the multiple gear changes performed by a mechanical transmission. UQM® systems, incorporating proprietary DSP software technology , are suited as propulsion drives in HEV's, PHEV's and EV's due to their ability to power a vehicle from a standing-stop to highway speeds without mechanical gear changes, thereby eliminating the size, weight, complexity and cost of multi-speed mechanical transmissions. The ability to provide both high torque and high top speed creates additional advantages in military vehicles. High torque at low speed translates into obstacle and grade climbing capability that is more challenging in an off-road environment, while high speed enables pursuit, dash and evasive maneuvers as well as convoy transport. Conventional propulsion systems meet the high torque and high road speed requirements by using a transmission and additional gearing beyond that used for commercial vehicles. We have also developed auxiliary electronic products that perform other functions on HEV's, PHEV's and EV's. We currently manufacture proprietary DC-to-DC converters that reduce the voltage level of a 250 volt to 450 volt vehicle battery pack to 12 or 24 volts powering lower voltage devices onboard these vehicles. We also offer a high voltage DC-to-AC inverter, which converts DC power stored in vehicle battery packs to high quality 110 volt AC power. This device has an output efficiency of up to 93 percent. We also offer a high voltage DC-to-AC inverter, which converts DC power stored in vehicle battery packs (250 volt to 450 volt) to high quality 110/120 volt AC power. This device provides 5 kW of sinusoidal output (40 amps) with an efficiency of up to 93 percent. It powers devices that are typically plugged into a standard wall outlet and its high power quality will handle sensitive loads, including communication systems and power tools. We have two U.S. patent applications pending related to new technology: one that relates to electric machines and another that relates to inverters. In addition, we have submitted two additional provisional applications. We are also performing internally funded research and development to continually improve the functionality of the microprocessor software we use to intelligently control our motor/controller system. The majority of our research and development activities are the result of projects contracted with and funded by customers, for which we typically retain intellectual property rights in the resulting technology developed. Customer funded development activities are recorded in our financial statements as contract services revenue and the associated development costs are shown as costs of contract services. Internally-funded research and development expenditures are charged to research and development expense when incurred. In recent years, we have focused our research and development activities on the development of commercial products and production engineering activities to lower the cost of manufacture, as well as enhance the performance and capability of our systems, as opposed to basic research in the field. We believe our future growth is dependent, in part, on the continued advancement of our technology portfolio and our ability to commercialize our technology in additional product applications and markets. Accordingly, we expect to continue to pursue additional customer funded programs and to selectively invest in internally funded development projects to accomplish these objectives. Markets for our Products We believe that our technology and products are well-suited for application in a wide-range of vehicles as the trend toward electrification continues to gain momentum. In this regard, we have focused our attention on several markets where we believe we can most effectively compete and which we expect will have higher than average rates of growth and expansion. A brief description of each of these markets follows: Passenger automobiles and light trucks - In past years, more than 50 million passenger automobiles and light trucks were sold worldwide of which 11 to 17 million units were sold in the United States. Over the last several years a market has developed for automobiles that are powered by hybrid electric powertrains. These vehicles have good performance and provide above average fuel economy compared to conventional automobiles. Several established automakers have introduced vehicle models incorporating hybrid electric powertrains including Toyota, Nissan, Honda, Ford and General Motors. Several automakers have also introduced or announced plans to introduce all-electric passenger vehicles in the coming years, including Nissan, Mitsubishi, Ford and CODA Automotive. The CODA all-electric passenger car is powered by a UQM® electric propulsion system. We have announced that Audi, Saab and Rolls Royce have either development test fleets or development vehicles in place that are powered by UQM® electric propulsion systems. In addition to established automakers, there are a variety of small entrepreneurial companies that are developing and have introduced or intend to introduce all-electric, hybrid-electric or plug-in hybrid-electric cars. Most visible of these companies is our customer, CODA Automotive, who plans to introduce an all-electric passenger vehicle in calendar 2011 (see also "the CODA Program" below), Tesla, who has introduced an all-electric sports car and hopes to introduce an all-electric passenger car in a few years and Fisker Automotive, who has introduced a plug-in hybrid sports car and also hopes to introduce a plug-in hybrid passenger car in a few years. Although many of these entrepreneurial companies lack substantial financial resources and/or significant automobile industry experience, they are pursuing a variety of strategies to introduce these types of automobiles into either niche markets, such as for fleet users or high-end luxury sports car buyers, or the consumer vehicle market generally. Should any of these companies be successful in commercializing their product offerings, it could cause the growth rate of this market to accelerate. These companies are generally using electric or hybrid electric powertrains that they have developed themselves or have been developed by other entrepreneurial companies. Trucks, Buses and Recreational Vehicles - The U.S. Department of Energy estimated that in 2007, trucks consumed 6.3 million barrels of crude oil per day and they project that by 2030, trucks will consume approximately 55 percent of all crude oil used in transportation, or 10 million barrels of crude oil per day. In recent years, approximately 6 million trucks, buses and other medium and heavy-duty on-road vehicles were sold in the United States each year, although these quantities have declined over the last couple of years. The market for these vehicles is characterized by a large number of suppliers, a wide-range of vehicle designs and configurations, diverse power and performance levels and relatively low production volumes for each model. As a result, the typical truck, bus and other medium and heavy-duty vehicle manufacturer have traditionally out-sourced many of these components and will likely continue to do so for the components necessary to electrify their vehicles. Accordingly, we expect these manufacturers to purchase products from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors; generators and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. Recently, a subsector of this market has begun to develop for medium-duty delivery trucks that operate on a well-defined route where average daily mileage requirements have little variability. In this subsector, truck manufacturers are beginning to offer delivery trucks with custom designed battery capacity whereby the delivery vehicle has only the battery content onboard that is necessary to achieve its route mileage plus a small increment of additional energy for contingencies. For these trucks, the optimized amount of energy stored in batteries reduces the cost of the batteries onboard an all-electric truck to a point where the vehicle is nearly competitively priced, on a life-cycle cost basis, with a conventional internal combustion powered delivery truck of the same size. We believe this pricing parity will accelerate the growth of this subsector in the near term. We are currently supplying an automotive qualified DC-to-DC converter to Eaton Corporation which is used onboard medium and heavy-duty hybrid trucks sold by Freightliner, International and Paccar and we offer for sale a DC-to-AC inverter to meet the growing onboard and export power requirements of hybrid trucks. We are supplying electric propulsion systems under a supply agreement to Electric Vehicles International, who has developed an all-electric medium-duty delivery truck. We expect the medium and heavy-duty hybrid electric truck market to grow at an accelerating rate as potential customers for these vehicles gain a greater understanding of their operational, environmental and economic advantages. Several truck manufacturers are also considering other electrically-based products that either enhance the utility of their vehicles, such as the ability to generate large amounts of exportable electric power, or that may be necessary to meet regulatory mandates, such as diesel engine emission standards and restrictions on emissions arising from diesel engine idling. We intend to continue to aggressively pursue the commercialization of our products for these and other applications in the market for electric and hybrid trucks as it emerges over the next several years. We are also supplying propulsion systems for electric buses being developed and produced by Proterra, Inc. under a supply agreement. The 37-foot Proterra composite body bus is being developed in both an all-electric battery and plug-in hybrid configuration. Proterra recently announced their plans to build a 200,000 square foot bus manufacturing facility in South Carolina. Off-road vehicles - There are a wide-range of off-road vehicles sold in the United States each year. These vehicles range from small - wheelchairs, golf carts, fork trucks, riding lawn mowers, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, etc., - to large construction, agricultural and mining equipment. The markets for small vehicles are typically characterized by relatively high volumes, low power levels and commodity pricing. We expect to continue to compete selectively in small off-road vehicle markets where the customer requires advanced technology or superior performance and where acceptable gross profit margins are obtainable. The market for large equipment - tractors, construction, mining and other specialty equipment - possesses many of the same characteristics as the over-the-road truck market described above. In recent years, it is estimated that approximately 500,000 of these vehicles were sold in the United States annually. Accordingly, we expect these vehicle manufacturers to purchase products with similar specifications as those required in the over-the-road truck and bus markets from suppliers who have developed technologically advanced electric motors and power electronic energy management controls that can be applied to their vehicles. Although these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, they nevertheless represent a substantial opportunity due to higher power levels, substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. We have provided systems to several large off-road vehicle developers for both electric propulsion and under-the-hood auxiliary applications. We have also developed electric power products for the aircraft and aerospace market and the boat and marine market. In the boat market, we have developed generators for onboard power production in hybrid-electric boats as well as electric propulsion systems. We believe that the fuel efficiency benefits of vehicle electrification can be realized in the boat and marine market. Although our focus is primarily on-road applications, we will continue to leverage our technology and products in these potentially large niche markets as opportunities present themselves. Military vehicles - The U.S. military purchases a wide-range of ground vehicles each year including combat vehicles such as tanks, self-propelled artillery and armored personnel carriers, as well as a variety of light, medium and heavy-duty trucks for convoy and supply operations and for the transport of fuel used on the battlefield. The military is particularly interested in the electrification of vehicles because the attributes that these vehicles possess offer exceptional potential for the military to achieve its long-term objectives of developing a highly mobile, lethal fighting force. Fuel economy improvements in military vehicles transfer into substantial savings in support infrastructure and transportation costs associated with transporting fuel to the battlefield, which is typically thousands of miles from the United States. For example, if fuel economy improvements of 25 percent are achieved in the average truck, a corresponding amount of fuel does not have to be transported and therefore a corresponding number of airplanes or tankers are not required in the transportation process. Also, the availability of onboard electrical power on military vehicles opens up new opportunities for the development of sophisticated surveillance, detection and battlefield monitoring equipment and for laser, microwave and electrical pulse weapon systems. It is estimated that the military purchases approximately 8,000 trucks per year and greater numbers during periods of armed conflict. As is the case with large off-road equipment, these vehicles are produced in relatively lower volumes, operate at higher power levels, have substantial technical complexity and therefore substantially higher product content and dollar value per vehicle. We have, over the last several years, been working with a number of military contractors and vehicle makers including DRS Technologies, AM General, BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics and others, on prototype hybrid electric vehicles, high export power generators, electric auxiliaries, DC-to-DC converters and DC-to-AC inverters. Although this market has not yet emerged, we believe that it may begin to soon, driven by the availability of hybrid electric components in the commercial truck market that operate at similar power levels as those required by many military vehicles. Marketing Channels and Sales We market our products in a variety of different ways depending on the end market and the complexity of the product. In the automotive sector we market our electric propulsion systems and generators through the following channels: Direct Sales Vehicle Integrators - This marketing channel is characterized by the development of a relationship with companies that perform vehicle development activities for automobile companies worldwide. Many of these companies have substantial autonomy to source vehicle components at the earliest stages of a vehicle development program. As a result of our multi-year relationships supplying many of these companies with our products, we have been able to develop and foster within their organizations a confidence in the performance characteristics, ease of application and durability of our products that have led to additional early stage placements of our products in automakers vehicle development programs. Cooperative Marketing Arrangements - These arrangements typically are characterized by nonexclusive marketing cooperation with other vehicle component developers and manufacturers where marketing partners introduce UQM® products to prospective customers who are considering a component being sold by our marketing partner and vice versa. For example, we currently have an active cooperative marketing arrangement with BorgWarner, who has developed a transaxle for all-electric and hybrid vehicles that is matched to our PowerPhase Pro® 100 kW propulsion motor and a three speed transmission matched to our PowerPhase HD® 150 kW propulsion motor. We opportunistically market our technology in well-established markets for products that incorporate electric motors, generators and power electronic controllers where added-value can be provided to the end product user by adopting our technology. Examples of existing electric vehicle markets that we believe may present opportunities for the commercialization of our proprietary technology include electric aircraft tugs and other support equipment, commercial floor cleaning equipment and other similar markets where the product application generally requires high torque and variable speed operation. In addition, there are a multitude of electric auxiliary motors used on aircraft and automobiles such as HVAC compressors, fan blower motors that provide a further opportunity for replacement by our systems. We have developed and commercialized several products for existing markets. These products include a fan blower motor and a compressor drive motor that are used in aircraft air conditioning systems manufactured by Keith Products, Inc. and an electric brake actuation motor that is used in selected golf carts manufactured by Club Car, Inc. We expect to continue to commercialize both technologically advanced and low cost products that we develop to customer specifications in selected large, established markets. Funded development projects are typically marketed through a technical selling process that encompasses the submission of an engineering proposal by our engineering staff in response to a request for proposal or from other methods designed to find and identify customer funded development opportunities within our area of expertise. CODA Automotive Program We have a ten year Supply Agreement with CODA Automotive to supply UQM PowerPhase Pro® electric propulsion systems for their all-electric passenger sedan that is expected to be introduced in California in the second half of calendar year 2011. The supply agreement provides a framework for CODA or CODA's manufacturing partners to purchase 20,000 electric propulsion systems from us over the first two years of the program. Under the terms of the Agreement, CODA or CODA's manufacturing partner will issue blanket purchase orders covering their annual purchase requirements and issue thereunder noncancellable delivery releases against the blanket order. CODA Automotive has announced that to date it has raised over $200 million in capital to facilitate the execution of its business plan and is currently pursuing an additional $50 million in equity capital. CODA has stated that it hopes to sell 10,000 to 14,000 vehicles in the first twelve months following the vehicle's introduction. The CODA all-electric sedan was developed by CODA's internal team of engineers working with multiple external engineering partners, including Porsche Engineering. The vehicle is expected to have a base price of $32,400 after applying a $7,500 federal tax credit and a $5,000 state tax credit from California for qualifying buyers. CODA has also announced its plan to sell the vehicle in the state of Hawaii and in China. The car is powered by a 100 kW UQM PowerPhase Pro® electric propulsion system, and has a 33.8 kWh lithium-ion battery pack which CODA expects will provide a vehicle range between charges of 90 to 120 miles depending on individual driving habits. The onboard charger plugs into a 110V or a 220V outlet and can charge for a 40-mile commute in approximately two hours (full charge in less than six hours) at 220V. CODA advertises that the CODA sedan is backed by a three-year/36,000 mile warranty and an eight-year/100,000 mile battery warranty. The CODA electric sedan chassis will be assembled and tested, incorporating the UQM® power-train on an assembly line operated by Harbin HaFei Automobile Industry Group Co., Ltd. ("Haifei"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Chang An, one of China's largest and most respected automobile manufacturers. Hafei has over 575,000 square meters of production facilities and 11,000 employees. CODA has announced that the battery system for the CODA passenger car is being supplied by a joint venture between CODA Automotive and Tianjin Lishen Battery Co. ("Lishen"). Lishen is one of the world's largest manufacturers of lithium-ion cells and a key supplier to Apple, Motorola, Samsung and Vodafone, among others. CODA is working to establish U.S. based manufacturing of their joint venture batteries and final vehicle assembly operations. CODA's stated strategy is to design, brand, market and distribute electric vehicles utilizing manufacturing partnerships which allow it to develop vehicles rapidly in a flexible manner - avoiding the traditionally capital-intensive nature of the automobile business. CODA expects to employ a direct distribution model. CODA expects that vehicle maintenance and service operations will be performed through an outsourced network comprised of brand name car service partners. Other announced suppliers to the CODA program include: Continental (electronic stability control); Delphi (DC to DC converter and electric power steering); BorgWarner (transaxle); Hella (electric vacuum pump); Energy CS (battery management system); Lear (battery charger); OMITEC (main controller); and Mitsubishi (electric AC compressor). Our Agreement with CODA also provides that if CODA or its manufacturing partners, if any, do not collectively purchase 15,000 units within the first two years following the launch of production, they will be required to make specific payments to us. U.S. Department of Energy Stimulus Grant We have been awarded a $45,145,534 grant (the "Grant") from the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the "Stimulus Act"). The Grant provides funds to facilitate the manufacture and deployment of electric drive vehicles, batteries and electric drive vehicle components in the United States. We are one of seven component manufacturers selected for an award and the only small business under the component category. Pursuant to the terms of our Assistance Agreement, the DOE will reimburse 50 percent of qualifying costs incurred for the purchase of facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment, and for engineering expenditures related to product qualification and testing of our electric propulsion systems and other products. The initial period of the Grant is through January 12, 2013. The $45.1 million size of the Grant is based on the estimated cost of a project to implement high volume manufacturing operations provided in our application to the DOE under the Electric Drive Vehicle Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative. Funding for qualifying project costs is currently limited to $32 million until July 13, 2011, at which time we are required to provide the DOE with an updated total estimated cost of the project along with evidence of firm commitments for our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project in excess of our currently accepted cost share match of $32 million. If an extension or modification of this requirement has not occurred or all such funds have not been secured, we must submit, by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE, or the award may be terminated. The Grant is also subject to our compliance with certain reporting requirements. As specified in the Act, we are required to use the Grant funds in a manner that maximizes job creation and economic benefits. The Stimulus Act and the Agreement impose minimum construction wages and labor standards for projects funded by the Grant and some sourcing restrictions. If we dispose of assets acquired using Grant funding, we may be required to reimburse the DOE upon such sale date if the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition exceeds $5,000. The amount of any such reimbursement shall be equal to 50 percent of the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition. While UQM has exclusive patent ownership rights for any technology developed with Grant funds, we are required to grant the DOE a non-exclusive, non-transferable, paid-up license to use such technology. The Grant has numerous benefits to the Company and its shareholders including: 1) substantially reducing the Company's cost of capital; 2) substantially mitigating the financial risk of productionizing our products and acquiring the facilities and equipment necessary to support volume production of our products; 3) substantially reducing our product qualification and testing costs; and 4) improving product margins on products manufactured on equipment subsidized by the Grant. At March 31, 2011 we had received reimbursements from the DOE under the Grant totaling $10,409,083 of which $7,310,336 was for capital assets and $3,098,747 was reimbursements of product qualification and testing costs. We also had an amount receivable from the DOE at March 31, 2011 of $1,552,528 of which $662,620 represented reimbursement of capital asset purchases and $889,908 was reimbursements for product qualification and testing costs incurred. The application of grant funds to eligible capital asset purchases under the Grant as of March 31, 2011 is as follows: Purchase Cost Grant Funding Recorded Value Land $ 896,388 448,194 448,194 Building 9,611,560 4,805,780 4,805,780 Machinery and Equipment 5,437,965 2,718,982 2,718,983 $15,945,913 7,972,956 7,972,957 Manufacturing It is our primary objective to become a major manufacturer of electric motor, generator and other power electronic products that incorporate our proprietary technology and to supply these products to electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicle manufacturers and/or their Tier 1 suppliers. To this end, in December 2009 we acquired a 129,304 square foot facility on 15 acres together with 15 acres of adjacent vacant land in Longmont, Colorado to support our expected growth in manufacturing operations. We have installed and qualified two semi-automated production cells at this facility with a two shift capacity to produce 40,000 units a years of our automotive 100 kW and 135 kW PowerPhase Pro® electric motor and motor controller. We expect to add additional production capacity in this facility coincident with future demand. Over the last several years we have established a production engineering group with decades of manufacturing design and production experience, much of which is specific to the electric motor or automotive industries. We have adopted the Advanced Product Quality Planning ("APQP") automotive procedures for the development and volume production of our products and we are continuing to expand our production engineering group coincident with the growth in our customer base and the number of customer programs we believe will proceed to full scale production. We are also upgrading our software systems and enhancing our internal processes in preparation in anticipation of potentially rapid growth in our production volumes. We also have a production cell for the assembly of our larger frame size, higher power, lower volume prototype motors. The annual capacity of this cell is approximately 5,000 systems per shift per year. We also manufacture a truck qualified DC-to-DC converter for Eaton Corporation as part of their hybrid electric power system for the heavy truck market, as well as for other electric and hybrid electric vehicle manufacturers. We have a dedicated manufacturing cell for these electronic boxes that includes the robotic application of sealant, sixteen hours of burn-in cycling between hot and cold temperature extremes, pressure testing for cooling leaks and complete functional testing. In order to ensure our cost competitiveness, we have adopted a manufacturing strategy for the near term of designing all product components and then sourcing these parts with quality suppliers. Final assembly, testing, pack-out and shipping of the product are performed at our Colorado facility. We have established relationships with many high-quality, low-cost suppliers, including a number of international companies. Future plans are to continue the development and introduction of more advanced and automated manufacturing systems which we believe will ensure our competitiveness in new and growing markets. Our manufacturing operations are certified to the ISO 9001:2000 standard. Over the next several years we expect to qualify our manufacturing operations under the more difficult TS 16 standard for the automotive sector. Our Opportunity We have developed a range of products including electric propulsion motors, generators, power electronic controllers and other power electronic products that we believe are ideally suited to the growing markets for electric, hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. We believe that the launch of high volume manufacturing of our PowerPhase Pro® 100 kW electric propulsion system for CODA Automotive later this calendar year will give us a substantial "first mover" advantage as a Tier 1 supplier to the clean vehicle market. Specifically, the introduction of our products that have been fully automotive qualified in commercial quantities will provide substantial economies of scale, permitting us to achieve production costs and pricing that will be difficult for others who have not launched similar high volume production to compete with. We expect that this pricing and product availability advantage will allow us to further expand the roster of automobile makers who select our propulsion systems for their future vehicle programs. In addition to the passenger automobile market, vehicle makers of all types have been evaluating the potential of applying electric and hybrid electric technology to their vehicle platforms. Of these manufacturers, medium and heavy-duty truck and bus builders and military manufacturers have been the most active, driven by the performance and fuel economy advantages available from this technology, the need for large amounts of onboard and exportable power and new federal standards requiring fuel economy improvements of 10% to 20 %. We believe that these industry developments signal the beginning of a potentially large-scale deployment of electric propulsion and related electronic products into markets beyond mass-market passenger automobiles. Should these products receive broad customer acceptance, as we expect they will, additional opportunities will likely develop over time for our company. In the past, we have supplied our electric propulsion systems and generators to small niche developers of electrically powered vehicles or as part of technology development and assessment programs by the U.S. government, and larger commercial customers. However, over the last few years, we have supplied our propulsion systems to numerous international automotive manufacturers as part of their electric and hybrid electric vehicle development activities, including publicly announced fleet build or vehicle development programs with Audi, Saab, Citroen and Rolls Royce. Should any of these automakers elect to utilize our products in future model launches, it would have a material impact on our future rate of growth. We are currently investing substantial amounts of human resource and capital on establishing the manufacturing infrastructure to meet CODA Automotive's requirements as well as the potential production requirements of our other existing and future customers. As the markets for our customers' clean vehicles expand, we expect to make additional investments in support of our strategy to aggressively introduce automotive certified products to satisfy our customers' requirements. We also expect to experience potentially rapid growth in our revenue coincident with the introduction of electric products by our customers. In parallel to these activities in the automotive market, we expect to continue to pursue additional production opportunities for our proprietary technology in existing markets where the performance of our products can provide our customers with a competitive advantage in the markets they serve. Business Segments At March 31, 2011, we had two reportable segments. These reportable segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services and are managed separately because of their different business strategies. Technology Segment Our technology segment encompasses the operations of our Engineering and Product Development Group. The Engineering and Product Development Group is equipped with research and development laboratories, prototype build and test facilities for electric motors, generators, power electronic controllers, software, and vehicle integration activities. The technology segment conducts customer funded and internally-funded research and engineering activities directed toward: 1) the development of new motors, generators, and power electronic controllers to meet the requirements of customers' specific product applications; 2) integration of our motors, generators and power electronic controllers into customers' products; and 3) support of our power products segment and the low volume manufacture of motors, generators and power electronic controllers. Power Products Segment Our power products segment encompasses the operations of our wholly-owned subsidiary, UQM Power Products, Inc. UQM Power Products, Inc. is the manufacturer of our proprietary products in higher volumes and is an ISO 9001:2000 quality certified manufacturer of motors and electronic products designed by the company. Effective April 1, 2011 we merged UQM Power Products, Inc. into UQM Technologies, Inc. Competition All of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The markets served by the technology segment are additionally characterized by rapid changes due to technological advances that can render existing technologies and products obsolete. The technology segment has developed advanced electric propulsion systems and components which we hope to market to vehicle Original Equipment Manufacturers ("OEMs") and their Tier 1 suppliers throughout the world for use in electric, hybrid electric, plug-in hybrid electric and fuel cell electric vehicles. In recent years, the market for hybrid electric automobiles has begun to emerge, led by the introduction and market success of hybrid electric vehicles manufactured by Toyota, Honda, Ford and General Motors and others. In the larger vehicle markets, International Truck and Engine Corporation, Freightliner Trucks and Paccar offer hybrid electric medium-duty trucks and Caterpillar, Inc. produces a belt-less engine/electric tracked bulldozer. As a result, additional vehicle makers in both on-road and off-road markets are expected to develop and introduce a variety of hybrid electric and all-electric vehicles as the market acceptance of these vehicles continues to grow. We cannot assure that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or any other market that now exists or may develop in the future. There are numerous companies developing products that do or soon will compete with our systems. Some of these companies possess significantly greater financial, personnel and other resources than we do, including established supply arrangements and volume manufacturing operations. We believe our principal competitors include Toyota, Honda, General Motors, Hitachi, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi, Danaher, Enova, Continental, Magna, Remy, Bosch and Azure Dynamics. The power products segment competes primarily in the automotive, heavy equipment, military and aerospace industries. Each of these industries is extremely competitive. We face substantial competition on a continuing basis from numerous companies, many of whom possess longer operating histories, significantly greater financial resources and marketing, distribution and manufacturing capability. We believe our principal competitors include Advanced DC Motors, General Electric, Rockwell International, Hitachi, Hyundai, Toshiba, Siemens, Delphi, Danaher, L-3 Communications, Enova, Continental, Magna, Remy, Bosch and Azure Dynamics. Patents We hold several groups or families of patents. U.S. Patent Nos. 5,311,092 and 5,319,844 disclose and claim a lightweight high-power electromagnetic transducer and method of making the same. The corresponding foreign patents have expired. U.S. Patent No. 5,592,731 and U.S. Patent No. 5,382,859 relate to a stator for high-power density electric motors and generators, and a method of constructing the same. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,677,605 discloses and claims a brushless motor and drive system using phase timing advancement. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 5,982,063 discloses and claims an electric motor having an internal brake. Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. U.S. Patent No. 6,522,130 discloses and claims a method for controlling a brushless electric motor having a rotor, and relates to an accurate method for sensing rotor position and detecting rotational speed over a broad range of speeds. U.S. Patent No. 6,693,422 is a related U.S. patent entitled "Accurate Rotor Position Sensor and Method Using Magnet and Sensors Mounted Adjacent to the Magnet and Motor". Corresponding applications have been filed and issued in several foreign countries. In 2007, we filed patent applications for a stator design in the United States, Canada, and Europe. The U.S. and Canadian applications have granted as U.S. Patent No. 7,755,244 and CA 2,615,111, respectively. The European application is currently pending. In 2007, we filed patent applications for a permanent magnet rotor geometry for permanent magnet electric motors in the United States, Canada, and Europe. The United States application issued as U.S. Patent No. 7,598,645. The Canadian and European applications are currently pending. In January 2010, we filed a U.S. patent application for a distributed generation power system having an integrated electric utility meter and inverter system, including the physical design, placement and interconnection of the integrated electric utility and inverter system. Corresponding patent applications have been filed in Europe and Canada. In November 2010, we filed a US patent application for a rotor for a permanent magnet electric machine. This application is pending. Corresponding patent applications have been filed in Europe and Canada. In addition, we have submitted two additional provisional applications. In 1994, we executed an agreement with Alcan Aluminium Limited ("Alcan") in which Alcan assigned to us all of its rights, title and interests in certain motor technology developed under a program funded by Alcan. This agreement further provides that we shall pay to Alcan royalties of one-half of one percent on revenue derived from the manufacture and sale of products or processes embodying the related technology. The agreement expires on January 14, 2014. Royalty payments under this agreement for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $36,882, $25,349 and $39,850, respectively. We also intend to rely on the unpatented proprietary know-how we have developed and now utilize in our products. We cannot provide assurance that others will not independently develop, acquire or obtain access to our technology. Although we protect our unpatented proprietary rights by executing confidentiality agreements with our management, employees and others with access to our technology, these measures may not be adequate to protect us from disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Trademarks We have registered the letters "UQM" in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Counterpart applications have been filed in numerous countries throughout the world, most of which have granted registrations or indicated them to be allowable. We own three U.S. Trademark Registrations for "UQM" (International Class 7 for power transducers, Class 12 for utility land vehicles, and Class 16 for publications). The foreign trademark registrations and applications include major markets where we are doing business or establishing business contacts. We have also registered the trademark "POWERPHASE" which we use in conjunction with certain of our propulsion systems. The trademark is registered in the European Community and several other foreign countries. Backlog Our technology segment had unperformed service contracts from customers, which will provide future revenue upon completion totaling approximately $0.3 million at April 30, 2011 versus $1.1 million at April 30, 2010. Our order backlog for prototype motors and controllers at April 30, 2011 was approximately $1.2 million versus $1.9 million at April 30, 2010. All such service contracts are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to complete all unperformed service contracts over the next fourteen months and ship motor and controller backlog products over the next twelve months. Our power products segment had an order backlog of approximately $2.2 million at April 30, 2011 compared to $3.1 million at April 30, 2010. Many orders are issued to us as blanket purchase orders subject to the issuance of subsequent release orders which direct the number and timing of actual deliveries. Substantially all of the backlog amounts at April 30, 2011 and 2010 are subject to amendment, modification or cancellation. We expect to ship all backlog products within the next twelve months. Customers and Suppliers We have historically derived significant revenue from a few key customers. Revenue from CODA Automotive, which is a customer of our power products segment, was $1,301,224, $573,250, and $22,850 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing 14 percent, 7 percent and nil of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented 16 percent and 3 percent of consolidated total accounts receivable at March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for CODA Automotive were 38 percent and 27 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue from Quantum Fuel Systems Technologies Worldwide Inc., which is also a customer of our power products segment, was $12,000, $13,115, and $1,360,909 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing nil, nil and 16 percent of consolidated total revenue, respectively. This customer also represented nil and 3 percent of total accounts receivable at March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We did not have any raw materials, work-in-process or finished goods inventory for Quantum Fuel Systems Technologies Worldwide Inc. at March 31, 2011 and 2010. Principal raw materials and components purchased by us include iron, steel, electronic components, magnets and copper wire. Most of these items are available from several suppliers. Certain components used by us are custom designs and if our current supplier no longer made them available to us, we could experience production delays. U.S. Government Contracts Revenue derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government and from subcontracts with U.S. Government prime contractors was $1,112,307, or 12 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2011, $2,488,321 or 29 percent of our consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2010 and $1,989,872, or 23 percent of consolidated total revenue, for the year ended March 31, 2009. Accounts receivable from government-funded contracts represented 49 percent and 8 percent of total accounts receivable as of March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Of these amounts, revenue derived from subcontracts with AM General LLC totaled $792,508, $1,807,063 and $434,181 which represented 9 percent, 21 percent and 5 percent of our consolidated total revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This customer also represented nil and 8 percent of consolidated total accounts receivable at March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Inventories consisting of raw materials, work-in-process and finished goods for AM General LLC were nil and 13 percent of consolidated total inventories at March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Some of our business with the U.S. Government was performed on a cost plus fixed fee basis. These contracts provide for reimbursement of costs, to the extent allocable and allowable under applicable regulations, and payment of a fee. Certain other contracts with the U.S. Government provide for the reimbursement of costs on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis and have not-to-exceed billing rates negotiated between the U.S. Government and us. Other U.S. Government business is performed under firm fixed price contracts. On "cost-share" and "firm fixed price" contracts, we can incur an actual loss in the performance thereof if incurred costs exceed the contract amount. All of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to modification or cancellation at the convenience of the Government. We have an Assistance Agreement ("Grant") for $45,145,534 with the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the "Stimulus Act"). The Grant provides funds to facilitate the manufacture and deployment of electric drive vehicles, batteries and electric drive vehicle components in the United States. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the DOE will reimburse us for 50 percent of qualifying costs incurred for the purchase of facilities, tooling and manufacturing equipment, and for engineering related to product qualification and testing of our electric propulsion systems and other products. The initial period of the Grant is through January 12, 2013. Funding for qualifying project costs incurred is currently limited to $32.0 million until July 13, 2011 at which time we are required to provide the DOE an updated total estimated cost of the project along with evidence of firm commitments for our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project in excess of our currently accepted cost-share match of $32.0 million. If an extension or modification of this requirement has not occurred or all such funds have not been secured, we must submit by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE, or the award may be terminated. If we dispose of assets acquired using Grant funding, we may be required to reimburse the DOE upon such sale date if the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition exceeds $5,000. The amount of any such reimbursement shall be equal to 50 percent of the fair value of the asset on the date of disposition. At March 31, 2011 we had received reimbursements from the DOE under the Stimulus Grant totaling $10,409,083 of which $7,310,336 was for capital assets and $3,098,747 was reimbursements of product qualification and testing costs. We also had an amount receivable from the DOE at March 31, 2011 of $1,552,528 of which $889,908 represented reimbursement for product qualification and testing costs incurred. The application of grant funds to eligible capital asset purchases under the Grant as of March 31, 2011 is as follows: Purchase Cost Grant Funding Recorded Value Land $ 896,388 448,194 448,194 Building 9,611,560 4,805,780 4,805,780 Machining and Equipment 5,437,965 2,718,982 2,718,983 $ 15,945,913 7,972,956 7,972,957 The application of Grant funds to eligible capital assets purchases under the Grant as of March 31, 2010 is as follows: Purchase Cost Grant Funding Recorded Value Land $ 896,388 448,194 448,194 Building 6,772,314 3,386,157 3,386,157 Machining and Equipment 470,936 235,468 235,468 $ 8,139,638 4,069,819 4,069,819 Employee and Labor Relations As of April 30, 2011, we had 80 total employees, of whom 79 are full-time employees. We have entered into employment contracts with four of our executive officers. Three of these contracts expire on August 22, 2012 and one expires on August 31, 2015. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relationship with employees has been generally satisfactory. In addition to our full-time staff, we from time to time engage the services of outside consultants and contract employees to meet peak workload or specialized program requirements. We do not anticipate any difficulty in locating additional qualified engineers, technicians and production workers, if so required, to meet expanded research and development or manufacturing operations. Available Information We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Anyone seeking information about our business can receive copies of our FY2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, Annual Report to Shareholders, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports and other documents, filed with the SEC at the public reference section of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. These documents also may be obtained, free of charge, by: contacting our Investor Relations office by e-mail at investor@uqm.com; by phone at (303) 682-4900; writing to UQM Technologies, Inc., Investor Relations, 4120 Specialty Place, Longmont, CO 80504-5400; or accessing our website at , select "Investor Relations" and "SEC Filings." Our website also includes our Audit Committee Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics as well as the procedures for reporting a violation of business ethics. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. We have incurred significant losses and may continue to do so. We have incurred significant net losses as shown in the following tables: Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011 2010 2009 Net loss $ 1,992,358 $ 4,140,872 $ 4,402,019 As of March 31, 2011 we had an accumulated deficit of $75,558,469. In the future, we plan to make additional investments in product development, facilities and equipment and other costs related to the commercialization of our products. As a result, we expect to continue to incur net losses at least through March 31, 2012 and potentially beyond. Our operating losses, anticipated capital expenditures and working capital requirements in the longer term may exceed our current cash balances. Our net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 was $1,992,358 versus a net loss for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 of $4,140,872 and $4,402,019, respectively. At March 31, 2011, our cash and short-term investments totaled $24,211,275. We expect our losses to continue through at least March 31, 2012 and potentially beyond. Our existing cash resources, together with funding expected from our ARRA grant should be sufficient to complete our business plan for at least the next eighteen months. Should those resources be insufficient, we may need to secure additional debt or equity funding, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not satisfy the terms of our U.S. Department of Energy grant, we may not receive all or any portion of the $45.1 million grant we were awarded and may be required to return amounts already paid to us under the grant. We have a $45.1 million award under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act's Electric Drive Vehicle Battery and Component Manufacturing Initiative with the U.S. Department of Energy. This Award is subject to terms and conditions specified in the agreement between us and the DOE. We are required to make a cash investment on a dollar-for-dollar matching basis to receive funds under this Award. If we are unable to match the total amount of the $45.1 million award with funding from non-Federal sources, we will be unable to take advantage of the entire Award, and could become ineligible for continued participation in the program. The reimbursement of qualified costs under the award is currently limited to $32.0 million. On or before July 13, 2011, we are required to provide to the DOE an updated total estimated cost of the project along with firm commitments to fund our 50 percent share of the total estimated cost of the project above the $32.0 million of matching funds we have previously received credit for. If an extension or modification of this requirement has not occurred or all such funds have not been secured, we must submit, by such date, a funding plan to obtain the remainder of such funds, which is acceptable to the DOE, or the award may be terminated. In addition, the award may be terminated at any time at the convenience of the government. Although we expect to satisfy the requirement in the award, we cannot assure that this requirement will be satisfied and the contract will not be terminated prior to receiving all of the proceeds. CODA may not purchase from us all or any portion of the 20,000 systems provided for under its supply agreement. We have executed a supply agreement with CODA that provides a framework for CODA, or its manufacturing partner, to purchase from us 20,000 electric propulsion systems for use in automobiles to be manufactured by CODA during the initial two-year term of the agreement. Under the terms of this agreement, CODA, or its manufacturing partner HaFei, will issue blanket purchase orders covering their annual purchase requirements and specifying the timing of delivery for such units, with a portion of the delivery schedule considered to be "firm" and noncancellable. We have not yet received a production purchase order under the CODA supply agreement. If CODA, or its manufacturing partner, does not purchase at least 15,000 units under the CODA supply agreement, CODA may be required to make specific payments to us. For example, if CODA is unsuccessful in the development of its electric automobile, CODA or HaFei would not be obligated to purchase electric propulsion systems from us, but CODA would then be obligated to make the payments specified in the contract to us. While these specific payments would cover much of our costs in preparing to supply electric propulsion systems to CODA, the payments are substantially less than the amount we would receive for sales of systems under the supply agreement. In addition, CODA may not have adequate funds to make any such payments to us or may otherwise contest its obligation to pay, and as a result it is possible that we may never receive any such funds. CODA may also terminate the supply agreement for any number of reasons. We may experience challenges in launching production of electric propulsion systems on the scale envisioned under the CODA supply agreement. Although we have installed and qualified production lines, we have not ever produced electric propulsion systems on the scale necessary to fulfill our obligations under the CODA supply agreement. We also need to hire additional personnel as production volumes for CODA increase. We may encounter difficulties and challenges in ramping-up our operations. If we are unable to successfully increase our production volumes coincidence with CODA's delivery requirements we could breach our Supply Agreement. If any such difficulties are encountered during production launch it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenue is highly concentrated among a small number of customers. A large percentage of our revenue is typically derived from a small number of customers, and we expect this trend to continue and intensify as we begin production under the CODA supply agreement. CODA may become the source of a substantial portion of our revenue in at least the near-term. The magnitude of this revenue is dependent on CODA's ability to introduce and sell its passenger vehicle in commercial volumes. Our customer arrangements generally are non-exclusive, have no long-term volume commitments and are often done on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods will continue to purchase our products. Accordingly, our revenue and results of operations may vary substantially from period to period. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to cease doing business with us, significantly reduce or delay its purchases from us or fail to pay us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business relies on third parties, whose success we cannot predict. As a manufacturer of motors, generators, and other component parts, our business model depends on the ability of third parties in our industry to develop, produce and market products that include or are compatible with our technology and then to sell these products into the marketplace. Our ability to generate revenue depends significantly on the commercial success of our customers and partners. Failure of these third parties to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our products and fluctuations in the timing and volume of such sales could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our electric propulsion systems use rare earth minerals and unavailability or limited supply of these minerals could prevent us from manufacturing our products in production quantities or increase our costs. Neodymium, a rare earth mineral, is a key ingredient used in the production of magnets that are a component of our electric propulsion systems. We currently source our magnets from China, and China has indicated its intent to retain more of this mineral for the use of Chinese companies, rather than exporting it. To the extent that we buy magnets as a finished product from a Chinese supplier, these potential limitations on neodymium ore may not impact us. Although neodymium iron boron magnets are available from other sources, these alternative sources are currently more costly. Reduced availability of neodymium from China could adversely affect our ability to obtain magnets in sufficient quantities, or in a timely manner, to meet our production plans. In the event that China's actions cause us to seek alternate sources of supply for magnets, it could cause an increase in our production costs thereby reducing our profit margin on electric propulsion systems if we are unable to pass the increase in our production costs on to our customers. Some of our contracts can be cancelled with little or no notice and could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Our contracts with government agencies are subject to the risk of termination at the convenience of the contracting agency and in some cases grant "march-in" rights to the government. March-in rights are the right of the United States government or the applicable government agency, under limited circumstances, to exercise a non-exclusive, royalty-free, irrevocable worldwide license to any technology developed under contracts funded by the government to facilitate commercialization of technology developed with government funding. March-in rights can be exercised if we fail to commercialize the developed technology. The exercise of march-in rights by the government or an agency of the government could restrict our ability to commercialize our technology. Some of our orders for the future delivery of products are placed under blanket purchase orders which may be cancelled by our customers at any time. The amount payable to us, if any, upon cancellation by the customer varies by customer. Accordingly, we may not recognize as revenue all or any portion of the amount of outstanding order backlog we have reported. We face intense competition and may be unable to compete successfully. In developing electric motors for use in vehicles and other applications, we face competition from very large domestic and international companies, including the world's largest automobile manufacturers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources to apply to research and development efforts than we have, and they may independently develop motors that are technologically more advanced than ours. These competitors also have much greater experience in and resources for marketing their products. For these reasons, potential customers may choose to purchase electric motors from our competitors rather than from us. In addition, the U.S. government has awarded substantial financial grants under the stimulus bill to several large companies who compete with us. To the extent that some of these competitors received awards under the stimulus bill in amounts greater than we have, could adversely impact our ability to compete. Our business depends, in part, on the expansion of the market for hybrid electric vehicles and the future introduction and growth of a market for all-electric vehicles. Although our electric propulsion systems may be used in a wide variety of products, the market for electric and hybrid vehicles is fairly new. At the present time, batteries used to power electric motors have limited life and require several hours to charge, and charging stations for electric motors are not widely available. Electric and hybrid vehicles also tend to be priced higher than comparable gasoline-powered vehicles. As a result, consumers may experience concerns about driving range limitations, battery charging time and higher purchase costs of electric or hybrid automobiles. If consumer preferences shift to vehicles powered by other alternative methods, or if concerns about the availability of charging stations cannot be overcome, the market for all-electric cars, and therefore our electric propulsion systems, may be limited. In addition, our electric propulsion systems are incorporated in buses used for mass transit in several U.S. cities. If passenger traffic in these mass transit systems declines or government funding to transportation districts declines from current levels, demand for our products may also decrease. The popularity of alternative fuel based vehicles and "green energy" initiatives are highly dependent on macro-economic conditions, including oil prices and the overall health of the economy. When oil prices fall, interest in and resources allocated to the development of advanced technology vehicles and propulsion systems may diminish. The recent downturn in the world economy also has severely impacted the automotive industry, slowing the demand for vehicles generally and reducing consumers' willingness to pay more for environmentally friendly technology. If our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business may not grow. Although we believe our proprietary systems are suited for a wide-range of vehicle electrification applications, our business and financial plan relies heavily on the introduction of new products that have limited testing in the marketplace. We are currently making substantial investments in human resources, manufacturing facilities and equipment, production and application engineering, among other things, to ramp up our production capacity in order to capitalize on the anticipated expansion in demand for electric propulsion systems and generators in the automobile and light truck markets. Our sales of electric propulsion systems and generators in the automobile and light truck markets to date have consisted of limited quantities of preproduction evaluation and field test units. We are not certain that our existing products will achieve broad market acceptance, or that we will be able to develop new products or product enhancements that will achieve broad market acceptance. Changes in environmental policies could hurt the market for our products. The market for electric and other alternative fuel vehicles and equipment and the demand for our products are influenced, to a degree, by federal, state and local regulations relating to air quality, greenhouse gases and pollutants. These laws and regulations may change, which could result in transportation or equipment manufacturers abandoning or delaying their interest in electric or hybrid electric vehicles or equipment. In addition, a failure by authorities to enforce current laws and regulations or to adopt additional environmental laws or regulations could limit the demand for our products. Although many governments have identified as a significant priority the development of alternative energy sources, governments may change their priorities, and any change they make could materially affect our revenue or the development of our products. If we are unable to protect our patents and other proprietary technology, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technology, which would impair our competitiveness and ability to commercialize our products. In addition, the cost of enforcing our proprietary rights may be expensive and result in increased losses. Our ability to compete effectively against other companies in our industry will depend, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Although we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be successful in doing so. We have historically pursued patent protection in the United States and a limited number of foreign countries where we believe significant markets for our products exist or where potentially significant competitors have operations. It is possible that a substantial market could develop in a country where we have not received patent protection and under such circumstances our proprietary products would not be afforded legal protection in these markets. Further, our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We cannot assure that additional patents will be issued to us or, if they are issued, as to the scope of their protection. Patents granted may not provide meaningful protection from competitors. Even if a competitor's products were to infringe patents owned by us, it would be costly for us to pursue our rights in an enforcement action, it would divert funds and resources which otherwise could be used in our operations and we may not be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights. In addition, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country where we may operate or sell our products in the future. If third parties assert technology infringement claims against us, the defense of the claims could involve significant legal costs and require our management to divert time and attention from our business operations. If we are unsuccessful in defending any claims of infringement, we may be forced to obtain licenses or to pay royalties to continue to use our technology. We may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or if these licenses are costly, our results of operations may suffer either from reductions in revenues through our inability to serve customers or from increases in costs to license third-party technologies. Use of our motors in vehicles could subject us to product liability claims or product recalls, and product liability insurance claims could cause an increase in our insurance rates or could exceed our insurance limits, which could impair our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The automotive industry experiences significant product liability claims. As a supplier of electric propulsion systems or other products to vehicle OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our systems or components caused an accident. Product liability claims could result in significant losses as a result of expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. The sale of systems and components for the transportation industry entails a high risk of these claims, which may increase as our production and sales increase. In addition, we may be required to participate in recalls involving these systems if any of our systems prove to be defective, or we may voluntarily initiate a recall or make payments related to such claims as a result of various industry or business practices or the need to maintain good customer relationships. We carry product liability insurance of $10 million covering most of our products. If we were to experience a large insured loss, it might exceed our coverage limits, or our insurance carriers could decline to further cover us or raise our insurance rates to unacceptable levels, any of which could impair our financial position and results of operations. Any product liability claim brought against us also could have a material adverse effect on our reputation. We may be subject to warranty claims, and our provision for warranty costs may not be sufficient. We may be subject to warranty claims for defects or alleged defects in our products, and the risk of such claims arising will increase as our production and sales increase. In addition, in response to consumer demand, vehicle manufacturers have been providing, and may continue to provide, increasingly longer warranty periods for their products. As a consequence, these manufacturers may require their suppliers, such as us, to provide correspondingly longer product warranties. As a result, we could incur substantially greater warranty claims in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 