Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks, including those described below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this prospectus. Any of these risks could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition: Our technologies are in early stages of development. We generated minimal initial revenues from sales and operations in 2006 and 2005, and we do not expect to generate revenues to enable us to be profitable for several calendar quarters unless we sell and/or license our technologies. We discontinued our proof-of-concept program in November 2006 and have, therefore, ceased selling our OTC products. To complete our current phases in clinical development, we expect to spend approximately $900,000 in 2009. We estimate that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to fund our current operations. We may need to raise approximately $5 to $10 million additional funds beyond 2009 in order to fully implement our integrated business plan, including execution of the next phases in clinical development of our pharmaceutical products. Ultimately, we must achieve profitable operations if we are to be a viable entity, unless we are acquired by another company. We intend to proceed as rapidly as possible with the asset sale and licensure of OTC products that can be sold with a minimum of regulatory compliance and with the development of revenue sources through licensing of our existing intellectual property portfolio. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise sufficient capital to sustain operations beyond 2009 before we can commence revenue generation or that we will be able to achieve or maintain a level of profitability sufficient to meet our operating expenses. We will need additional capital to conduct our operations and develop our products beyond 2009, and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We estimate that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to fund our current and planned operations through 2009; however, we may need additional capital. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we cannot assure that estimates and assumptions will remain unchanged. For example, we are currently assuming that we will continue to operate without any significant staff or other resources expansion. We intend to acquire additional funding through public or private equity financings or other financing sources that may be available. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As discussed in more detail below, additional equity financing could result in significant dilution to stockholders. Further, in the event that additional funds are obtained through licensing or other arrangements, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and may impair the value of our patents and other intangible assets. Existing stockholders may face dilution from our financing efforts. We must raise additional capital from external sources to execute our business plan beyond 2009. We plan to issue debt securities, capital stock, or a combination of these securities, if necessary. We may not be able to sell these securities, particularly under current market conditions. Even if we are successful in finding buyers for our securities, the buyers could demand high interest rates or require us to agree to onerous operating covenants, which could in turn harm our ability to operate our business by reducing our cash flow and restricting our operating activities. If we were to sell our capital stock, we might be forced to sell shares at a depressed market price, which could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, any shares of capital stock we may issue may have rights, privileges, and preferences superior to those of our common shareholders. The prescription drug and medical device products in our internal pipeline are at an early stage of development, and they may fail in subsequent development or commercialization. 14 We are continuing to pursue clinical development of our most advanced pharmaceutical drug products, PH-10 and PV-10, for use as treatments for specific conditions. These products and other pharmaceutical drug and medical device products that we are currently developing will require significant additional research, formulation and manufacture development, and pre-clinical and extensive clinical testing prior to regulatory licensure and commercialization. Pre-clinical and clinical studies of our pharmaceutical drug and medical device products under development may not demonstrate the safety and efficacy necessary to obtain regulatory approvals. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after experiencing promising results in earlier trials. Pharmaceutical drug and medical device products that appear to be promising at early stages of development may not reach the market or be marketed successfully for a number of reasons, including the following: · a product may be found to be ineffective or have harmful side effects during subsequent pre-clinical testing or clinical trials, · a product may fail to receive necessary regulatory clearance, · a product may be too difficult to manufacture on a large scale, · a product may be too expensive to manufacture or market, · a product may not achieve broad market acceptance, · others may hold proprietary rights that will prevent a product from being marketed, or · others may market equivalent or superior products. We do not expect any pharmaceutical drug products that we are developing to be commercially available for several years, if at all. Our research and product development efforts may not be successfully completed and may not result in any successfully commercialized products. Further, after commercial introduction of a new product, discovery of problems through adverse event reporting could result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal from the market and, in certain cases, civil or criminal penalties. Our OTC products are at an early stage of introduction, and we cannot be sure that they will be sold through a combination of asset sale and licensure in the marketplace. We have previously focused on marketing Pure-ific, one of our OTC products, on a limited basis to establish proof of concept, which we believe we have accomplished. We have recognized minimal revenue from this product, as the sales of this product have not been material. We discontinued our proof-of-concept program in November 2006 and have, therefore, ceased selling our OTC products. In order for this product, and our other OTC products, to become commercially successful, the Company now intends to license the products which the Company has been discussing with interested groups and the Company also intends to sell a majority stake of the underlying assets via a non-core spin-out transaction. Competition in the prescription drug, medical device and OTC pharmaceuticals markets is intense, and we may be unable to succeed if our competitors have more funding or better marketing. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. Other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and research organizations currently engage in or have in the past engaged in research efforts related to treatment of dermatological conditions or cancers of the skin, liver and breast, which could lead to the development of products or therapies that could compete directly with the prescription drug, medical device and OTC products that we are seeking to develop and market. Many companies are also developing alternative therapies to treat cancer and dermatological conditions and, in this regard, are our competitors. Many of the pharmaceutical companies developing and marketing these competing products have significantly greater financial resources and expertise than we do in: · research and development, · manufacturing, 15 · preclinical and clinical testing, · obtaining regulatory approvals, and · marketing. Smaller companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Academic institutions, government agencies, and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for research, clinical development, and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. In addition to the above factors, we expect to face competition in the following areas: · product efficacy and safety; · the timing and scope of regulatory consents; · availability of resources; · reimbursement coverage; · price; and · patent position, including potentially dominant patent positions of others. As a result of the foregoing, our competitors may develop more effective or more affordable products or achieve earlier product commercialization than we do. Product Competition. Additionally, since our formerly marketed products are generally established and commonly sold, they were subject to competition from products with similar qualities when we marketed them. Our OTC product Pure-ific, when we sold it in the proof-of-concept stage, competed in the market with other hand sanitizing products, including in particular, the following hand sanitizers: · Purell (owned by Johnson & Johnson), · Avagard D (manufactured by 3M), and · a large number of generic and private-label equivalents to these market leaders. Our OTC product GloveAid represents a new product category that has no direct competitors; however, other types of products, such as AloeTouch® disposable gloves (manufactured by Medline Industries) target the same market niche. Since our prescription products PV-10 and PH-10 have not yet been approved by the United Stated Food and Drug Administration, which we refer to as the “FDA,” or introduced to the marketplace, we cannot estimate what competition these products might face when they are finally introduced, if at all. We cannot assure you that these products will not face significant competition for other prescription drugs and generic equivalents. If we are unable to secure or enforce patent rights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property our business could be harmed. We may not be successful in securing or maintaining proprietary patent protection for our products and technologies we develop or license. In addition, our competitors may develop products similar to ours using methods and technologies that are beyond the scope of our intellectual property protection, which could reduce our anticipated sales. While 16 some of our products have proprietary patent protection, a challenge to these patents can be subject to expensive litigation. Litigation concerning patents, other forms of intellectual property, and proprietary technology is becoming more widespread and can be protracted and expensive and can distract management and other personnel from performing their duties. We also rely upon trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, and continuing technological innovation to develop a competitive position. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technology and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and technology, or that we can adequately protect our trade secrets and technology. If we are unable to secure or enforce patent rights, trademarks, trade secrets, or other intellectual property, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we infringe on the intellectual property of others, our business could be harmed. We could be sued for infringing patents or other intellectual property that purportedly cover products and/or methods of using such products held by persons other than us. Litigation arising from an alleged infringement could result in removal from the market, or a substantial delay in, or prevention of, the introduction of our products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we do not update and enhance our technologies, they will become obsolete. The pharmaceutical market is characterized by rapid technological change, and our future success will depend on our ability to conduct successful research in our fields of expertise, to discover new technologies as a result of that research, to develop products based on our technologies, and to commercialize those products. While we believe that our current technology is adequate for our present needs, if we fail to stay at the forefront of technological development, we will be unable to compete effectively. Our competitors are using substantial resources to develop new pharmaceutical technologies and to commercialize products based on those technologies. Accordingly, our technologies may be rendered obsolete by advances in existing technologies or the development of different technologies by one or more of our current or future competitors. If we lose any of our key personnel, we may be unable to successfully execute our business plan. Our business is presently managed by four key employees: · H. Craig Dees, Ph.D., our Chief Executive Officer; · Timothy C. Scott, Ph.D., our President; · Eric A. Wachter, Ph.D. our Executive Vice President - Pharmaceuticals; and · Peter R. Culpepper, CPA, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer. In addition to their responsibilities for management of our overall business strategy, Drs. Dees, Scott and Wachter are our chief researchers in the fields in which we are developing and planning to develop prescription drugs, medical devices and OTC products. The loss of any of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations, and our ability to execute our business plan might be negatively impacted. Any of these key employees may leave their employment with us if they choose to do so, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to hire similarly qualified employees if any of our key employees should choose to leave. Because we have only four employees in total, our management may be unable to successfully manage our business. In order to successfully execute our business plan, our management must succeed in all of the following critical areas: · Researching diseases and possible therapies in the areas of dermatology and skin care, oncology, and biotechnology; 17 · Developing prescription drug, medical device, and OTC products based on our research; · Marketing and selling developed products; · Obtaining additional capital to finance research, development, production, and marketing of our products; and · Managing our business as it grows. As discussed above, we currently have only four employees, all of whom are full-time employees. The greatest burden of succeeding in the above areas, therefore, falls on Drs. Dees, Scott, Wachter, and Mr. Culpepper. Focusing on any one of these areas may divert their attention from our other areas of concern and could affect our ability to manage other aspects of our business. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to succeed in all of these areas or, even if we do so succeed, that our business will be successful as a result. We anticipate adding an additional regulatory affairs officer on a consulting basis within several months. While we have not historically had difficulty in attracting employees, our small size and limited operating history may make it difficult for us to attract and retain employees in the future, which could further divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. Our common stock price can be volatile because of several factors, including a limited public float, which has increased significantly from 2005 to 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the sale price of our common stock fluctuated from $0.74 to $1.64 per share. We believe that our common stock is subject to wide price fluctuations because of several factors, including: · absence of meaningful earnings and ongoing need for external financing; · a relatively thin trading market for our common stock, which causes trades of small blocks of stock to have a significant impact on our stock price; · general volatility of the stock market and the market prices of other publicly-traded companies; and · investor sentiment regarding equity markets generally, including public perception of corporate ethics and governance and the accuracy and transparency of financial reporting. Financings that may be available to us under current market conditions frequently involve sales at prices below the prices at which our common stock trades on the OTC Bulletin Board, as well as the issuance of warrants or convertible debt that require exercise or conversion prices that are calculated in the future at a discount to the then market price of our common stock. The current economic downturn has made the financings available to development-stage companies like us more dilutive in nature than they would otherwise be. Any agreement to sell, or convert debt or equity securities into, common stock at a future date and at a price based on the then current market price will provide an incentive to the investor or third parties to sell the common stock short to decrease the price and increase the number of shares they may receive in a future purchase, whether directly from us or in the market. Financings that may be available to us frequently involve high selling costs. Because of our limited operating history, low market capitalization, thin trading volume and other factors, we have historically had to pay high costs to obtain financing and expect to continue to be required to pay high costs for any future financings in which we may participate. For example, our past sales of shares and our sale of the debentures have involved the payment of finder’s fees or placement agent’s fees. These types of fees are typically higher for small companies like us. Payment of fees of this type reduces the amount of cash that we receive from a financing transaction and makes it more difficult for us to obtain the amount of financing that we need to maintain and expand our operations. 18 It is our general policy to retain any earnings for use in our operation. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings, if any, for use in our business and therefore do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our stock price is below $5.00 per share and is treated as a “penny stock”, which places restrictions on broker-dealers recommending the stock for purchase. Our common stock is defined as “penny stock” under the Exchange Act and its rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define “penny stock” to include common stock that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. These rules include the following requirements: · broker-dealers must deliver, prior to the transaction a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market; · broker-dealers must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer and its registered representative; · broker-dealers must disclose current quotations for the securities; · if a broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealers presumed control over the market; and · a broker-dealer must furnish its customers with monthly statements disclosing recent price information for all penny stocks held in the customer’s account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Additional sales practice requirements are imposed on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and must have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. If our common stock remains subject to these penny stock rules these disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock. As a result, fewer broker-dealers may be willing to make a market in our stock, which could affect a shareholder’s ability to sell their shares. Future sales by our stockholders may adversely affect our stock price and our ability to raise funds in new stock offerings. Sales of our common stock in the public market following any prospective offering could lower the market price of our common stock. Sales may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that our management deems acceptable. The current economic downturn has made the financings available to development-stage companies like us more dilutive in nature than they would otherwise be. Item 