Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties the Company describes below and the other information in this Annual Report or incorporated by reference before deciding to invest in, or retain, shares of the Company's common stock. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company does not know about or that the Company currently believes are immaterial, or that the Company has not predicted, may also harm the Company's business operations or adversely affect the Company. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, the Company's business, financial condition, operating results or liquidity could be materially harmed. Risks Related to the Company's Business Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance the Company establishes for that purpose, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance the Company establishes for that purpose. Like all financial institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for possible loan losses to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for possible loan losses reflects management's best estimate of probable loan losses in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. This evaluation is primarily based upon a review of the Company and the Company's historical loan loss experience, known risks contained in the loan portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio, and economic factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. As a result, the Company's allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses may adversely affect the Company's earnings. The Company believes its allowance for possible loan losses is adequate at December 31, 2005. If real estate values in the Company's target markets decline, the loan portfolio would be impaired. A significant portion of the Company's loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate located in the markets served by the Company. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional, or local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchases, changes in the tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations, and policies; and acts of nature. If real estate prices decline significantly in any of these markets, the value of the real estate collateral securing the Company's loans would be reduced. Such a reduction in the value of the Company's collateral could increase the number of non-performing loans and adversely affect the Company's financial performance. The Company's subsidiary banks face strong competition in their market areas, which may limit their asset growth and profitability. The Company's primary market areas are South, Central and Southeast Texas, including Austin and Houston, and the State of Oklahoma. The banking business in these areas is extremely competitive, and the level of competition facing the Company may increase further, which may limit the growth and profitability of the Company. Each of the Company's subsidiary banks experience competition in both lending and attracting funds from other banks, savings institutions, credit unions and non-bank financial institutions located within its market area, many of which are significantly larger institutions. Non-bank competitors competing for deposits and deposit type accounts include mortgage bankers and brokers, 16 finance companies, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies, and mutual funds. For loans, the Company encounters competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts, and securities firms. The Company relies, in part, on external financing to fund the Company's operations and the unavailability of such funds in the future could adversely impact the Company's growth strategy and prospects. The Company relies on deposits, repurchase agreements, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") of Dallas and other borrowings to fund its operations. The subsidiary banks have also historically relied on certificates of deposit. While the Company has reduced its reliance on certificates of deposit and has been successful in promoting its transaction and non-transaction deposit products (demand deposit accounts, money market, savings and checking), jumbo deposits nevertheless constituted a large portion of total deposits at December 31, 2005. Jumbo deposits tend to be a more volatile source of funding. Although management has historically been able to replace such deposits on maturity if desired, no assurance can be given that the Company would be able to replace such funds at any given point in time. The Company's business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect the Company's financial performance. The Company is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: •Inflation; •Recession; •A rise in unemployment; •Tightening of the money supply; and •Domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce the Company's profits. The Company expects that the bank subsidiaries will continue to realize income from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The Company is subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect the Company including changes in U.S.—Mexico trade and travel along the Texas border. The Company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of the Company's operations. Because the Company's business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Company are subject to regular modification and change. There can be no assurance that there will be no laws, rules or regulations adopted in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive, or otherwise adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or prospects. Additionally, any reductions in border crossings and commerce resulting from the Homeland Security Programs called "US-VISIT," which is derived from Section 110 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigration Responsibility Act of 1996 could affect the Company negatively, and any possible negative consequences from an adverse immigration law could also have a negative affect on the Company's operations. 17 The effects of the litigation and proceedings pending with the Internal Revenue Service regarding the Company's lease financing transactions. The Company is currently involved in lawsuits with the IRS relating to two lease-financing transactions that the Company entered into through two subsidiary partnerships. No reliable prediction can be made at this time as to the likely outcome of the lawsuits; however, if the lawsuits are decided adversely to the partnerships, the Company will lose all or a portion of the tax benefits and interest on those investments. The Company's potential future acquisitions could be adversely affected by a number of factors. Acquisitions of other financial institutions have been a key element of the Company's growth. There are a number of factors that may impact the ability of the Company to continue to grow through acquisition transactions, including strong competition from other financial institutions who are active or potential acquirors of financial institutions in the existing or future markets of the Company. The Company relies heavily on its chief executive officer. The Company has experienced substantial growth in assets and deposits during the past, particularly since Dennis E. Nixon became our President in 1979. Although Mr. Nixon is the chief executive officer and one of the substantial shareholders, the Company does not have an employment agreement with Mr. Nixon and the loss of his services could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and prospects. Risks Related to the Company's Industry Changes in economic and political conditions could adversely affect the Company's earnings, as our borrowers' ability to repay loans and the value of the collateral securing our loans decline. The Company's success depends, to a certain extent, upon economic and political conditions, local, national and international with respect to Mexico, as well as governmental monetary policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in interest rates, changes in capital markets, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes and other factors beyond the Company's control may adversely affect the Company's asset quality, deposit levels and loan demand and, therefore, the Company's earnings. The Company is particularly affected by conditions in its primary market areas of South, Central and Southeast Texas, including Austin and Houston, and the State of Oklahoma. The Company depends on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business and, in turn, the Company's financial condition and results of operations. 18 If the Company does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, its financial performance may suffer. The Company's ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers and its ability to stay abreast of technological innovations and evaluate those technologies that will enable it to compete on a cost-effective basis. In addition to the challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, the Company's competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Such changes in the financial industry may result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Further, the costs of new technology, including personnel, can be high in both absolute and relative terms. There can be no assurance, given the fast pace of change and innovation, that the Company's technology, either purchased or developed internally, will meet or continue to meet the needs of the Company and the needs of our customers. Risks Related to the Company's Stock The Company's stock price may be volatile. Several factors could cause the Company's stock price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include: •Actual or anticipated variations in earnings; •The Company's announcements of developments related to its businesses; •Operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; •New technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors; •News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry; and •Changes in the Company's ability to pay dividends The Company's stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to the Company's performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of its common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. 19 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N/A 