D. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, together with others that appear with the forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Scailex in this Annual Report, or in Scailex’s other SEC filings and public statements, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business — We have sold our principal operating businesses and currently conduct only limited business activities. We sold the business of Scitex Digital Printing Inc., or SDP, one of our two principal operating subsidiaries, to Kodak in January 2004. In November 2005, Scailex Vision, our remaining principal operating subsidiary, sold its business to Hewlett-Packard Company, or Hewlett-Packard. Since then, we hold substantially all of our assets in cash and cash equivalents and the remainder is invested in several companies, including Jemtex, our majority owned subsidiary. Our plan of operation is to explore and consider strategic alternatives relating to our remaining holdings as well as to other investments and opportunities, including a possible merger or business combination with a domestic or foreign, private or public operating entity. Other than activities relating to attempting to locate such opportunities and activities relating to our holdings and the investment of our funds in short and long-term investments, we do not currently conduct any operations. Moreover, the pending sale of approximately 50% of our outstanding share capital by our two principal shareholders to an unaffiliated third party may have an impact on the Company and our future operations and strategies, which we currently cannot predict. See Item 7A. 8 — We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. While we are actively exploring strategic transactions and opportunities, we have not targeted any particular industry or specific business within an industry in which to pursue such opportunities. Accordingly, we may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics such as having a limited or no potential for immediate earnings, or otherwise pursue a business combination that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short term. In the event that we complete a business combination, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the management of the target company and numerous other factors beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us, or at all. — If we do consummate a major strategic transaction, such as a business combination, our shareholders may suffer a dilution of value of shares and we may need to raise additional financing. A business combination normally will involve the issuance of a significant number of additional Scailex shares. Depending upon the value of the assets and businesses acquired in such business combination, the per share value of our ordinary shares may increase or decrease, perhaps significantly. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may need to raise funds through a public or private financing. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. — We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. Following the sale of the businesses of SDP and Scailex Vision and the investment of the cash proceeds of such transactions, we are not an “investment company” under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, because we rely on an exemption from that act which generally exempts transient investment companies for a one year period, which in our case commenced when we sold the business of Scailex Vision. At the end of such one year period, if we have not entered into a business combination or developed an operating business, the likelihood of being deemed to be an investment company would increase over time and we may be required to seek exemptive or other relief from the SEC so as not to be regulated under the Investment Company Act. No assurance can be made that we will obtain such exemptive or other relief from the SEC, if and when we seek the same. If we were deemed to be an investment company, we would not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without obtaining exemptive relief from the SEC because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. As a result, we may be required to take certain actions with respect to the investment of our assets or the distribution of cash to shareholders in order to avoid being deemed an investment company, which actions may not be as favorable to us as if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act, and a violation of that act could subject us to material adverse consequences. We seek to conduct our operations, including by way of investing our cash and cash equivalents, to the extent possible so as not to become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. 9 — We hold substantially all of our assets in cash and financial instruments and are exposed to decreases in the value of our financial investments. As of December 31, 2005, we held, on a consolidated basis, approximately $319.5 million in cash and financial instruments, including a restricted cash deposit ($235.9 million presented as cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, $29.7 million presented as non current assets, $53.9 million of which is allocated to discontinued operations), which represent substantially all of our assets. Part of our cash on hand is held in different types of investment grade bonds. If the obligor of any of the bonds we hold defaults or undergoes a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in such obligor. We may also be subject to loss to the extent that the market value of these bonds decline. This will adversely affect our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2005, see Item 11 –“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk–Presentation of Exchange Rate and Interest Rate Risk.” — We have incurred substantial net losses in the past, and we may incur losses again in the future. Although our net income (including from discontinued operations) for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005 was approximately $1.4 million, $47.3 million and $106.1 million, respectively, we incurred net losses (including from discontinued operations) in the years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2002 of approximately $253.0 million (including $215.9 million associated with our holdings in Creo Inc., or Creo) and $32.0 million (including $22.3 million associated with our holdings in Creo), respectively. In respect of continuing operations, although our net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was approximately $0.7 million, we incurred net losses in the years ended December 31, 2002, 2003 and 2004 of approximately $32.3 million, $8.0 million and $5.2 million, respectively. We may continue to incur losses in the future, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition, as well as the value and market price of our shares. Even if we maintain profitability, we cannot assure you that future net income will offset our cumulative losses. — We are undergoing, and may in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits. We conducted business globally and a substantial part of our operations was conducted in various countries during the 1990s. Accordingly, not all of the tax returns of our operations during the 1990s as well as for subsequent years are final and may be subject to further audit and assessment by the applicable tax authorities. For example, in order to resolve a tax audit of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 1992 through 1996, we paid to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) an aggregate sum of approximately $21.5 million until 2002, and in 2004 we paid an aggregate sum of approximately $11.6 million to the IRS and other U.S. state tax authorities. If we become subject to further tax audits or assessments, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which, our future results may be adversely affected. For more information about these audits and other tax assessments, please see under “Item 5.B – Liquidity & Capital Resources – Tax Audits.” — Some of our holdings are in companies with no proven business model or that may be unable to obtain future financing. Some of the companies in which we have invested, including Jemtex, our majority-owned subsidiary, are emerging companies with no substantial operating history or proven business model and have extensive research and development and marketing costs and limited revenues, if any. In order to succeed, these companies may require additional capital to fund these costs, which may prove to be difficult to obtain. If these companies are unable to obtain sufficient financing from their current shareholders, which may also include additional investments by us in these companies, or from new financing sources, their continued operations may be at risk. In addition, even if such companies are able to finance their operations, there is no assurance that their products or technology will achieve market acceptance or that their business model will prove to be profitable. This could adversely affect our business. 10 — Scailex Vision is exposed to potential liabilities in connection with the sale ofthe business of Scailex Vision to Hewlett-Packard. Scailex Vision, our majority owned subsidiary, has agreed to indemnify Hewlett-Packard for certain breaches of the asset purchase agreement entered between them, including in the case of breaches of representations and warranties made by Scailex Vision, up to a cap of approximately $24 million. A claim against Scailex Vision could result in substantial cost, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we havegenerated a significantamount of income from this transaction. Based on our and Scailex Vision’s assessment, we believe that Scailex Vision is in compliance with all taxes due in relation with this transaction. The various tax authorities may not agree with Scailex Vision’s view. Any such disagreement or a subsequent tax dispute could result in tax liabilities in amounts which we currently cannot estimate. For more information, see under “Item 10C. Material Contracts – Sale of Scailex Vision’s Business” below. Risks Related to Operations in Israel — Political, economic and military instability in Israel or the Middle East may limit our ability to find a target for a merger or other business combination and adversely affect our results of operations. Our corporate headquarters and the principal facilities of our Group Companies, and many of our and their suppliers are located in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our business. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians. These political, economic and military conditions might deter potential targets from effecting a business combination with an Israeli company. In addition, the operations and financial results of our remaining Group Companies could be adversely affected if political, economic or military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. — A litigant may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us, our officers and directors, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates, and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; 11 — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and — the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. — Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Scailex. The Israeli Companies Law generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting, and which are not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (1) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (2) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or make more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which may adversely affect our ability to engage in a business combination and could depress our share price. — Israeli banking laws may impose restrictions on the total debt that we may borrow from Israeli banks. Pursuant to a directive published by the Israeli Supervisor of Banks, which became effective on March 31, 2004, we may be deemed part of a group of affiliated borrowers comprised of IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., the ultimate parent of Discount and Clal, our principal shareholders, and other companies which may be included in such group of borrowers pursuant to the directive. The directive generally provides that an entity will be subject to limitations on the amount of financing available to it from an Israeli bank if such entity is included within a group of borrowers to which the amount of debt financing that has been extended from such Israeli bank exceeds certain limits as specified in the directive. As we are currently part of the IDB affiliated group of companies which includes many companies that require, or may in the future require, extensive credit facilities from Israeli banks for the operation of their businesses, we cannot assure you that our banks will not exceed these limits (if applicable to us) in the future. Should our banks exceed these limits, they may limit our ability to draw funds, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.This status may change in light of the contemplated sale by Clal and Discount of their shareholdings to Israel Petrochemicals Enterprise Ltd. (see Item 7A). 12 Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares — Our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company. As more fully described in Item 10 – “Additional Information – Taxation”under the caption “Tax Consequences if we are a Passive Foreign Investment Company,” there is a high likelihood that we will be properly classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes in 2006. Our classification as a PFIC could result in U.S. holders (as defined in Item 10) suffering adverse tax consequences. These consequences may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. U.S. holders should consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. — Volatility of our share price could adversely affect us and our shareholders. The market price for our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, such as: — market conditions or trends; — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and world-wide; — actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; — material corporate transactions; and — entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli companies in particular, has been highly volatile in the past four years. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. Shareholders may not be able to sell their ordinary shares following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to such volatility and we may not be able to raise capital through an offering of securities. — Two shareholders may be able to control us. Clal, through CEI, its wholly owned subsidiary, and Discount (directly and through DIC Loans Ltd., its wholly owned subsidiary) own an aggregate of approximately 49.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, they are parties to a voting agreement entered into in 1980. Accordingly, Clal and Discount may have sufficient voting power, subject to special approvals required by Israeli law for transactions involving controlling shareholders, to: — elect all of our directors (subject to the provisions of the Companies Law with regard to outside directors); — control our management; and — approve or reject any merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. In addition, the market price of our ordinary shares may be adversely affected by events relating to Clal and Discount that are unrelated to us. See also in Item 7A, regarding the contemplated sale by Clal and Discount of their shareholdings to Israel Petrochemicals Enterprise Ltd. — Our ordinary shares are listed for trading in more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on NASDAQ National Market, or NASDAQ, and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on NASDAQ and New Israeli Shekels on TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. 13 