ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and investments, and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. Moreover, the Company’s subsidiaries operate in a very competitive, highly regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to either predict all risk factors or assess the impact of any factor, or combination of factors, on the Company’s and its subsidiaries operations, results and financial condition. BFC has in the past incurred cash flow deficits at its parent company level which are expected to continue in the future. BFC is engaged in making investments in operating businesses. Historically, BFC, at its parent company level, has not had revenue generating operating activities and has incurred cash flow deficits. BFC expects to continue to incur cash flow deficits for the foreseeable future. BFC has financed operating cash flow deficits with available working capital, issuances of equity or debt securities, and with dividends from its subsidiaries, which BFC has been dependent upon to fund its operations. BFC historically received dividends on the shares of Benihana’s stock that it owned. As previously described, Benihana was acquired by Safflower in a cash merger during August 2012. While BFC received cash proceeds in exchange for its shares of Benihana’s common stock in the transaction, BFC no longer holds an investment in Benihana and, accordingly, will not receive dividends in the future from Benihana. In addition, BBX Capital may not be in a position to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Bluegreen has historically not paid dividends on its Common Stock and certain of Bluegreen’s credit facilities contain terms which may limit the payment of cash dividends without the lender’s consent or waiver. In addition, any payment of dividends by BBX Capital or Bluegreen requires the declaration of such dividend by the applicable Company’s Board of Directors, and a majority of BBX Capital’s and, currently, Bluegreen’s respective directors are independent under the listing standards of the NYSE. Further, dividend decisions made by BBX Capital’s and Bluegreen’s respective Boards of Directors are not within BFC’s control, may not be made in BFC’s best interests, and are generally based on, among other things, the applicable company’s operating results, financial condition, cash flow and operating and cash needs. As described in “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings,” among other expenses we incur and payments we make, including quarterly dividend payments of $187,500 on our 5% cumulative preferred stock, we will also be required to make a significant cash payment to former shareholders of Woodbridge who exercised appraisal rights in connection with the 2009 merger between BFC and Woodbridge. If cash flow is not sufficient to fund BFC’s liquidity needs in the future, it may be forced to reduce operating expenses further, to liquidate some of its investments or to seek to fund its operations from the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. Such financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and if BFC is required to liquidate its investments, it may be forced to do so at depressed prices. Adverse conditions and events where BFC’s investments are currently concentrated or in the industries in which its subsidiaries operate could adversely impact its results and future growth. BBX Capital’s business and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and home equity loans are concentrated in Florida and have been adversely impacted by the downturn in economic conditions generally and particularly in Florida. In addition, Bluegreen’s operations were adversely impacted by the economic downturn. The impact of the economic downturn, including the persistence or deterioration of adverse economic conditions, natural disasters, including tropical storms and hurricanes, which are prevalent in Florida, or adverse changes in laws or regulations applicable to BFC or the companies in which BFC holds investments could further adversely impact its operating results and financial condition. Dividends and distributions from BFC’s subsidiaries to their respective parent companies may be subject to claims in the future from creditors of the subsidiary. Subsidiaries have in the past and may in the future make dividends or distributions to their parent companies. Dividend payments and other distributions by a subsidiary to its parent company may, in certain circumstances, be subject to claims made by creditors of the subsidiary which made the payment or distribution. Any such claim, if successful, may have a material and adverse impact on the financial condition of the parent company against which the claim was brought. 35 Risk Factors (BFC) There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on BFC’s financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports BFC files with the SEC, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the amortization/accretion of purchase accounting fair value differences and the future value of goodwill and other intangible assets pursuant to applicable accounting guidance. BFC bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that BFC believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future. As a result, BFC’s estimates, judgments and assumptions may prove to be incorrect and BFC’s actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, or BFC’s actual results differ from BFC’s estimates or assumptions, BFC may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges, which would be recorded as a charge against its earnings and could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and operating results. BFC’s investments in BBX Capital and Bluegreen subject it to equity pricing risks. Because BBX Capital and Bluegreen are consolidated in BFC’s financial statements, the decline in the market price of their stock would not impact BFC’s consolidated financial statements. However, a decline in the market price of BBX Capital’s stock and, until such time, if any, as the proposed merger with Bluegreen is completed, Bluegreen’s stock (which is not assured) would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock. The market price of BFC’s securities is important to its valuation and ability to obtain equity or debt financing. BFC may issue additional securities and incur additional indebtedness at BFC or at its subsidiaries. If BFC’s cash flow is not sufficient to meet its liquidity needs or BFC’s board of directors otherwise determines it to be appropriate, BFC may seek to raise funds in the future through the issuance of debt or equity securities. There is generally no restriction on BFC’s ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Authorized but unissued shares of BFC’s capital stock are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of BFC’s board of directors, and any such issuance may be dilutive to BFC’s shareholders. In addition, any securities issuances in the future by a subsidiary of BFC may dilute BFC’s economic investment or voting interest in that company. See also the risk factor entitled “The terms of BFC’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market” below. Further, BFC and its subsidiaries have in the past and may in the future incur significant amounts of debt. Any indebtedness could have several important effects on BFC, including, without limitation, that BFC may be required to use available cash for the payment of principal and interest due on its debt and that the outstanding indebtedness and leverage at BFC or its subsidiaries will impact liquidity and any negative changes in general economic and industry conditions will increase such impact. Certain members of BFC’s board of directors and certain of BFC’s executive officers are also directors and executive officers of BFC’s affiliates. Alan B. Levan, BFC’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, BFC’s Vice Chairman, are also directors and executive officers of BBX Capital and directors of Bluegreen. None of these individuals is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of BFC, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of BFC’s affiliates than they devote directly to BFC’s operations. Each of Jarett S. Levan and Seth M. Wise, who serves as an Executive Vice President of BFC and as a member of its board of directors, is an executive officer of BBX Capital and Mr. Jarett Levan is a member of BBX Capital’s board of directors. Further, John K. Grelle serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of both BFC and BBX Capital. In addition, D. Keith Cobb, a member of BFC’s board of directors, is also a member of the board of directors of BBX Capital. 36 Risk Factors (BFC) Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may adversely affect the market price of BFC’s Common Stock. Alan B. Levan, BFC’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, BFC’s Vice Chairman, may be deemed to beneficially own shares of BFC’s Common Stock, including shares that may be acquired pursuant to the exercise of stock options, representing approximately 71% of BFC’s total voting power. These shares consist of 12,284,466 shares, or 16%, of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and 6,521,228 shares, or 87%, of BFC’s Class B Common Stock. Additionally, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo have agreed to vote their shares of BFC’s Class B Common Stock in favor of the election of the other to BFC’s board of directors for so long as they are willing and able to serve as directors of BFC. Further, John E. Abdo has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer certain of his shares of BFC’s Class B Common Stock and to obtain the consent of Alan B. Levan prior to the conversion of certain of his shares of BFC’s Class B Common Stock into shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock. Since BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on most matters, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any vote of BFC’s shareholders (except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of BFC’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class) and to elect the members of BFC’s board of directors. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of BFC’s Common Stock. Alan B. Levan’s and John E. Abdo’s interests may conflict with the interests of BFC’s other shareholders. The loss of the services of BFC’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its business and the businesses of its subsidiaries. BFC’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy will depend on its ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. BFC may not be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against BBX Capital and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Alan Levan. While BBX Capital believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings-BBX Capital and its Subsidiaries” for further information regarding this litigation. As described above, Mr. Alan Levan is also the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC and, together with John E. Abdo, may be deemed to control BFC by virtue of their collective ownership interest in BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In the event Mr. Alan Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of BFC or any of its public company subsidiaries, including BBX Capital and Bluegreen, BFC and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, BFC believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by the continuation of service of BFC’s other executive officers, including Mr. Abdo, who has served as a director of BFC since 1988 and Vice Chairman of BFC since 1993, Seth M. Wise, who has served as a director and Executive Vice President of BFC since 2009 and has been an executive officer of Woodbridge since 2003, and Jarett S. Levan, who has served as a director of BFC since 2009, Executive Vice President of BFC since 2011, director of BBX Capital since 1999 and as President of BBX Capital since 2007. In addition, as a holding company, BFC’s results are dependent upon the operations and success of its subsidiaries and each subsidiary has executive management in place. BFC’s control position may adversely affect the market price of BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s Common Stock. As of December 31, 2012, BFC owned all of BBX Capital’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and approximately 8.1 million shares, or approximately 53%, of BBX Capital’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 75% of BBX Capital’s total voting power. Additionally, BFC currently directly or indirectly owns approximately 16.9 million shares, or approximately 54%, of Bluegreen’s issued and outstanding Common Stock. Accordingly, BFC holds a controlling position with respect to BBX Capital and Bluegreen and has the voting power to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote of the companies, except, with respect to BBX Capital, in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates separate class votes and, with respect to Bluegreen, where Massachusetts law requires a supermajority vote, such as was the case with the currently proposed merger between BFC and Bluegreen. BFC’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market prices of BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s Common Stock, which as previously described may in turn adversely impact the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock. 37 Risk Factors (BFC) The terms of BFC’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market. BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class. The Class A Common Stock possesses in the aggregate 22% of the total voting power of all of BFC’s Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock possesses in the aggregate the remaining 78% of the total voting power. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,800,000 shares, at which time the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 40% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 60%. If the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,400,000 shares, the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 53% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 47%. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 500,000 shares, at which time the fixed voting percentages will be eliminated. Each of these share thresholds will be ratably decreased in connection with the reverse stock split. Changes in the relative voting power represented by each class of BFC’s Common Stock are based only on the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding. Thus, issuances of Class A Common Stock will have no effect on these provisions, and the issuance of additional shares of Class A Common Stock will widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power. While the amendment creating this capital structure was approved by BFC’s shareholders, the fixed voting percentage provisions are somewhat unique. If the market does not view this structure favorably, the trading price and market for BFC’s Class A Common Stock would be adversely affected. Pending litigation and legal proceedings and the impact of any finding of liability or damages could adversely impact BFC and its financial condition and operating results. BFC and its subsidiaries are subject to the pending legal proceedings described in “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as proceedings that may arise from time to time. While BFC believes that the parties to these proceedings have meritorious defenses in the pending legal actions, the ultimate outcomes of these matters are uncertain. Judgments against, or damages, fines or penalties imposed on, BFC, its subsidiaries or its officers in these actions, as well as actions which BFC and its subsidiaries may face in the future, may have a material adverse impact on BFC’s operating results and financial condition. BFC is subject to environmental laws related to its real estate activities and the cost of compliance could adversely affect its business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, BFC may be liable under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not BFC knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The proposed merger between BFC and Bluegreen may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all, and there are uncertainties and risks to consummating the merger. As previously described, on November 14, 2012, BFC and its Woodbridge subsidiary entered into a definitive merger agreement with Bluegreen providing for the acquisition of Bluegreen by Woodbridge in a cash merger pursuant to which Bluegreen’s shareholders (other than BFC, directly or indirectly through Woodbridge, and shareholders of Bluegreen who duly exercise appraisal rights in accordance with Massachusetts law) will receive consideration of $10.00 in cash for each share of Bluegreen’s common stock that they hold at the effective time of the merger. The aggregate merger consideration is expected to be approximately $150 million. Consolidated class action lawsuits related to the merger are pending in Florida and Massachusetts and seek to enjoin the merger, or if it is completed, to recover relief as determined by the applicable presiding court to be appropriate. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding such litigation. In addition to the risks relating to the litigation challenging the merger, including the costs and expenses of defending the actions, the parties may not be able to satisfy all required closing conditions or otherwise complete the merger when expected, on the contemplated terms, or at all, in which case BFC and Bluegreen would have incurred significant transaction costs without consummating the merger. 38 Risk Factors (BFC) In addition, other risks and uncertainties faced by BFC and its shareholders with respect to the merger include, without limitation, that: · BFC’s shareholders will have increased exposure to the vacation ownership and other industries in which Bluegreen operates (see “Risks Related to Bluegreen” below); · BFC has and may continue to incur substantial costs and divert significant management resources in connection with its efforts to complete the merger; and · Bluegreen’s shareholders are entitled to appraisal rights in connection with the consummation of the merger, appraisal rights litigation is uncertain and the value of Bluegreen’s shares as determined in accordance with Massachusetts law in any appraisal rights action may be greater than the $10.00 per share merger consideration, in which case payments made to shareholders who exercise appraisal rights may materially adversely impact BFC’s cash position following the consummation of the merger. 39 Risk Factors (Bluegreen) RISKS RELATED TO BLUEGREEN Bluegreen is currently a separate public company. The following discussion, which was included in Bluegreen’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, was prepared by Bluegreen’s management and describes the risks that Bluegreen’s management currently believes to be material to Bluegreen’s operations. References to the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” in the following discussion are references to Bluegreen and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC or BBX Capital. Our business and operations, including our ability to market VOIs, is subject to general economic conditions, as well as interest rates and the availability of financing. Our business has been adversely affected by unfavorable general economic and industry conditions, including high unemployment rates and job insecurity, declines in discretionary spending, housing values and availability of financing, and geopolitical conflicts. If recent recovery trends do not continue or, economic conditions deteriorate, our business and results may be adversely impacted, particularly if financing for us or for our customers is unavailable or if changes in general economic conditions or other factors adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed under notes receivable. Further, adverse changes affecting the vacation ownership industry, such as an oversupply of vacation ownership units, a reduction in demand for such units, changes in travel and vacation patterns, changes in governmental regulation of the industry, imposition of increased taxes by governmental authorities, the declaration of bankruptcy and/or credit defaults by other vacation ownership companies and negative publicity for the industry, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We would incur substantial losses and our liquidity position could be adversely impacted if the customers to whom we provide financing default on their obligations. Prior to December 15, 2008, we did not perform credit checks on the purchasers of our VOIs in connection with our financing of their purchases. Effective December 15, 2008, we implemented a FICO® score-based credit underwriting program. We enhanced this credit underwriting program during January 2010. While our loan portfolio originated after December 15, 2008 has to date experienced defaults at a lower rate than loans originated prior to that date, our FICO® score-based underwriting standards may not continue to result in decreased default rates or otherwise result in the improved performance of our notes receivable. Adverse conditions in the mortgage industry, including credit sources as well as borrowers’ financial profiles, and other factors outside our control may increase the default rates we experience or otherwise negatively impact the performance of our notes receivable. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 4% of our VOI notes receivable were more than 30 days past due. Although in many cases we may have recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans or the cost of doing so may not be justified. Historically, we have generally not pursued such recourse against our customers. In the case of our notes receivable secured by VOIs, if we are unable to collect the defaulted amount due, we traditionally have terminated the customer’s interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club and then remarketed the recovered VOI. Irrespective of our remedy in the event of a default, we cannot recover the marketing, selling and administrative costs associated with the original sale. In addition, we will need to incur such costs again in order to resell the VOI. If default rates for our borrowers remain at current levels or increase, we may be required to increase our provision for credit losses. In addition, it may cause buyers of, or lenders whose loans are secured by, our VOI notes receivable to reduce the amount of availability under receivables purchase and credit facilities, or to increase the interest costs associated with such facilities. In such an event, the cost of financing may increase and we may not be able to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which would adversely affect our earnings, financial position and liquidity. Under the terms of our pledged and receivable sale facilities, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to replace receivables or to pay down the loan to within permitted loan-to-value ratios. Additionally, the terms of our securitization-type transactions require us to repurchase or replace loans if we breach any of the representations and warranties we made at the time we sold the receivables. These agreements also often include provisions that require substantially all of our cash flow from our retained interest in the receivable portfolios sold to be paid to the parties who purchased the receivables from us in the event of defaults by customers in excess of stated thresholds,. In addition, we guaranteed certain payments under the Legacy Securitization (described in further detail in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Substantially all of the timeshare receivables backing the notes subject to the Legacy Securitization were generated prior to December 15, 2008, when we implemented our FICO® score-based credit underwriting program, and relate to loans to borrowers with FICO® scores below 600. 40 Risk Factors (Bluegreen) While we have attempted to restructure our business to reduce our need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that such restructuring will be successful or that our business and profitability will not otherwise continue to depend on our ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to purchasers of our VOIs. However, we incur selling, marketing and administrative cash expenditures prior to and concurrent with the sale. These costs generally exceed the down payment we receive at the time of the sale. Accordingly, our ability to borrow against or sell our notes receivable has historically been a critical factor in our continued liquidity, and we therefore have depended on funds from our credit facilities and securitization transactions to finance our operations. The disruption in the credit markets which began in 2007 made obtaining additional and replacement external sources of liquidity more difficult and more costly. The number of banks and other finance companies willing to provide “warehouse” lines of credit for timeshare receivables decreased, and the term securitization market was unavailable for an extended period of time. If our pledged receivables facilities terminate or expire and we are unable to extend them or replace them with comparable facilities, or if we are unable to continue to participate in securitization-type transactions and “warehouse” facilities on acceptable terms, our liquidity, cash flow and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, financing for real estate acquisition and development and the capital markets for corporate debt have been limited. In response to these conditions, during 2008, we adopted initiatives, which included limiting sales and encouraging higher down payments on sales, in an attempt to conserve cash. We also have increased our focus on expanding our fee-based service business. However, there is no assurance that our implementation of these initiatives will enhance our financial position or otherwise be successful. If these initiatives do not have their intended results, our financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. Notwithstanding the initiatives implemented by us since 2008 to improve our cash position, we anticipate that we will continue to seek and use external sources of liquidity, including funds that we obtain pursuant to additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities, under credit facilities that we may obtain in the future, under securitizations in which we may participate in the future or pursuant to other borrowing arrangements, to: · support our operations; · finance the acquisition and development of VOI inventory or property and equipment; · finance a substantial percentage of our sales; and · satisfy our debt and other obligations. It is also expected that we will incur significant indebtedness in connection with our currently proposed merger with BFC. Our ability to service or to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing (including our ability to consummate future term securitizations) depends on the credit markets and on our future performance, which is subject to a number of factors, including the success of our business, results of operations, leverage, financial condition and business prospects, prevailing interest rates, general economic conditions and perceptions about the vacation ownership and real estate industries. Further, reputational and other risks to both the lender and to us associated with the 2007 bankruptcy of BFC’s Levitt and Sons subsidiary and the lawsuit brought by the SEC against BBX Capital, a public company in which BFC owns an approximately 49% equity interest and 73% voting interest, and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, who is also Chairman of Bluegreen’s board of directors and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC, may be considered by lenders in connection with both making and renewing extensions of credit. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $6.5 million of indebtedness scheduled to become due during 2013. Historically, much of our debt has been renewed or refinanced in the ordinary course of business. However, we may not in the future be able to obtain sufficient external sources of liquidity on attractive terms, or at all or otherwise renew, extend or refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt. Any of these occurrences may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact our ability to obtain, renew or extend credit facilities, or otherwise raise capital. Rating agencies from time to time review prior corporate and specific transaction ratings in light of tightened ratings criteria. We have maintained a “B-“corporate credit rating with a “stable” outlook with Standard & Poor’s since December 2010, at which time our corporate credit rating was upgraded to a CCC. If rating agencies were to 41 Risk Factors (Bluegreen) downgrade our corporate credit ratings, our ability to raise capital and/or issue debt on favorable terms, or at all, and our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if rating agencies downgraded their original ratings on certain bond classes in our securitizations, holders of such bonds may be required to sell bonds in the marketplace, and such sales could occur at a discount, which could impact the perceived value of the bonds and our ability to sell future bonds on favorable terms or at all. While we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely downgrades to our corporate credit rating or the ratings of bond classes in our securitizations, such ratings changes can occur without advance notice. Our future success depends on our ability to market our products and services successfully and efficiently, and our marketing expenses may increase particularly in the event our marketing focus shifts towards new customers as opposed to existing owners. We compete for customers with hotel and resort properties and other vacation ownership resorts. The identification of sales prospects and leads, and the marketing of our products and services to them are essential to our success. We have incurred and will continue to incur the expenses associated with marketing programs in advance of closing sales to the leads that we identify. If our lead identification and marketing efforts do not yield enough leads or we are unable to successfully convert sales leads to sales, we may be unable to recover the expense of our marketing programs and systems and our business, operating results and financial conditions would be adversely affected. In addition, we have in recent years focused our marketing efforts primarily on sales to existing owners, which typically carry a relatively lower marketing cost. If in the future we focus more of our marketing efforts on selling to new customers as opposed to existing owners, our sales and marketing expenses will likely increase. If that occurs and we are not successful in offsetting the cost increase with greater sales revenue, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely impacted. We may not be successful in increasing or expanding our fee-based services relationships, and our fee-based service activities, including the POA Sales activities which we commenced during January 2012, may not be profitable, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In July 2009, we began offering fee-based marketing, sales, resort management and other services to third-party developers. During 2012, we continued to expand our fee-based service business, which we believe enables us to leverage our expertise in sales and marketing, resort management, mortgage servicing, construction management and title services. We currently intend for our fee-based services to become an increasing portion of our resorts business over time as they generally produce positive cash flow and typically require less capital investment than our traditional vacation ownership business. We have attempted to structure these activities to cover our costs and generate a profit. However, our fee-based services business remains relatively new and we have limited experience in our pricing and operation. In addition, while our fee-based marketing and sales services do not require us to use our receivable credit facility capacity, our clients do typically have to maintain their own receivable-backed credit facilities. Should our clients not be able to maintain their facilities, our fee-based marketing and sales business could be materially adversely impacted. Alternatively, we could attempt to structure other arrangements where we would utilize our receivable credit facilities in order to provide fee-based marketing and sales services, but this would reduce the credit otherwise available to us. In addition, when we perform fee-based sales and marketing services, we sell VOIs in a resort developed by a third party as an interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club. This subjects us to a number of risks typically associated with selling products developed by others under your own brand name, including litigation risks. Additionally, demand for the third party resorts may be below our expectations and the third party developers may not satisfy their obligations. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by performing due diligence on the resorts in which we sell VOIs and by typically performing resort management services at those resorts, we may not be successful in mitigating or managing the risks, which may have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As part of the expansion of our fee-based service business, during January 2012, we began selling VOI inventory in connection with a new category of sales requiring low levels of capital deployment whereby we acquire VOI inventory from our resorts’ property owner associations (“POAs”) on a non-committed basis, in close proximity to the timing of our selling of such VOIs (“POA Sales”). VOIs are typically obtained by the POAs through foreclosure in connection with maintenance fee defaults and are generally acquired by us at a discount. While we intend to increase our POA Sales efforts in the future and enter into similar arrangements with third-party developers as part of our fee-based services initiative, we may not be successful in increasing our POA Sales or entering into similar arrangements, and in any event these efforts may not result in us achieving improved results. 42 Risk Factors (Bluegreen) Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted if we do not continue to participate in exchange networks and other strategic alliances with third parties or our customers are not satisfied with the networks in which we participate or our strategic alliances. As previously described, our participation in exchange networks and other strategic alliances and our Traveler Plus™ program make ownership of our VOIs more attractive by providing owners with the ability to take advantage of vacation experiences in addition to stays at our resorts. A VOI owner’s participation in the RCI exchange network allows an owner to exchange their annual VOI for occupancy at over 4,000 participating resorts, based upon availability and the owner payment of a variable exchange fee. During 2012, approximately 8% of our owners utilized the RCI exchange network for an exchange of two or more nights. We also have a joint venture with Shell, called Select Connections™, which currently gives Bluegreen Vacation Club members who acquired or upgraded their VOIs on or after July 1, 2007 access to 23 Shell resorts and provides members of Shell access to Bluegreen Vacation Club resorts. In addition, certain Bluegreen Vacation Club members may use their points for a variety of hotel stays, RV site stays within the “Coast to Coast” network, or various cruise vacations. We also entered into strategic alliance agreements with Choice during January 2013 pursuant to which certain of our resorts will be branded as part of Choice’s Ascend™ Hotel Collection and owners of our VOIs will be entitled to certain privileges, including discounted rates (subject to availability), with respect to Choice’s hotels. We may not be able to continue to participate in the RCI or Select Connections™ exchange networks at some point in the future. In addition, these networks and our Travelers Plus™ program may not continue to operate effectively, and our customers may not continue to be satisfied with them. Further, our relationship with Choice may not be well received by our customers or otherwise result in the benefits we expect to derive from the relationship. If any of these events should occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect our business. Based on our experience at our resorts and at destination resorts owned by third parties, we believe that resales of VOIs in the secondary market generally are made at net sales prices below their original customer purchase prices. The relatively lower sales prices are partly attributable to the high marketing and sales costs associated with the initial sales of such VOIs. Accordingly, the initial purchase of a VOI may be less attractive to prospective buyers. Also, buyers who seek to resell their VOIs compete with our efforts to sell our VOIs. While VOI resale clearing houses or brokers currently do not have a material impact on our business, if a secondary market for VOIs were to become more organized and liquid, the resulting availability of resale VOIs at lower prices could adversely affect our sales prices and the number of sales we can close, which in turn would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including the decline in real estate values and the deterioration of other conditions relating to the real estate market and real estate development. Real estate markets are cyclical in nature and highly sensitive to changes in national and regional economic conditions, including: · levels of unemployment; · levels of discretionary disposable income; · levels of consumer confidence; · the availability of financing; · overbuilding or decreases in demand; · interest rates; and · federal, state and local taxation methods. The adverse trends experienced in the real estate market beginning in 2007 exerted pressure upon us, and have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations. Further, while general economic trends have recently shown signs of improvement, a deterioration in general economic conditions or continued adverse conditions in the real estate market would have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent we decide to acquire more real estate inventory in the future, the availability of land for development of resort properties at favorable prices at that time will be critical to our profitability and the ability to cover our significant selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of capital and other expenses. If we are unable to acquire such land or resort properties at a favorable cost, it could have an adverse impact on our results of 43 Risk Factors (Bluegreen) operations. While we believe that the property we have purchased at our adjusted carrying amounts will generate appropriate margins, land prices remain significantly below historical levels, and the projects we acquired prior to or during the recent economic downturn may have been purchased at higher price levels than available in the current market. The profitability of our real estate development activities is also impacted by the cost of construction materials and services. Should the cost of construction materials and services rise, the ultimate cost of our future resorts inventory when developed could increase and have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Adverse outcomes in legal or other regulatory procedures, including claims for development-related defects, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the ordinary course of business, we are subject to litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings which result in significant expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain, and adverse outcomes in the litigation and other proceedings to which we are subject could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We engage third-party contractors to construct our resorts. We also historically engaged third-party contractors to develop our communities. However, our customers may assert claims against us for construction defects or other perceived development defects, including, without limitation, structural integrity, the presence of mold as a result of leaks or other defects, water intrusion, asbestos, electrical issues, plumbing issues, road construction, water and sewer defects and defects in the engineering of amenities. In addition, certain state and local laws may impose liability on property developers with respect to development defects discovered in the future. We could have to accrue a significant portion of the cost to repair such defects in the quarter when such defects arise or when the repair costs are reasonably estimable. In addition, liabilities related to Bluegreen Communities that were not assumed by Southstar in connection with its purchase of substantially all of the assets which comprised Bluegreen Communities on May 4, 2012, including those relating to Bluegreen Communities’ operations prior to the closing of the transaction, remain our responsibility. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a description of currently pending legal matters with respect to Bluegreen Communities. A significant number of claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. We may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. In addition, results of audits of our tax returns or those of our subsidiaries may have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition. The federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted extensive regulations that affect the manner in which we market and sell VOIs and conduct our other business operations. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of VOIs. Many states, including Florida and South Carolina, where some of our resorts are located, extensively regulate the creation and management of timeshare resorts, the marketing and sale of timeshare properties, the escrow of purchaser funds prior to the completion of construction and closing, the content and use of advertising materials and promotional offers, the delivery of an offering memorandum and the creation and operation of exchange programs and multi-site timeshare plan reservation systems. Moreover, with regard to sales conducted in South Carolina, the closing of real estate and mortgage loan transactions must be conducted under the supervision of an attorney licensed in South Carolina and otherwise in accordance with South Carolina’s Time Sharing Transaction Procedures Act. Most states also have other laws that regulate our activities, such as timeshare project registration laws, real estate licensure laws, mortgage licensure laws, sellers of travel licensure laws, anti-fraud laws, consumer protection laws, telemarketing laws, prize, gift and sweepstakes laws, and consumer credit laws. We currently are authorized to market and sell VOIs in all states in which our operations are currently conducted. If our agents or employees violate applicable regulations or licensing requirements, their acts or omissions could cause the states where the violations occurred to revoke or refuse to renew our licenses, render our sales contracts void or voidable, or impose fines on us based on past activities. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” In addition, the federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we conduct business have generally enacted extensive regulations relating to direct marketing and telemarketing, including the federal government’s national “Do Not Call” list. The regulations have impacted our marketing of VOIs, and we have taken steps in an attempt to decrease our dependence on restricted calls. However, these steps have increased and are expected to continue to increase our marketing costs. We cannot predict the impact that these legislative initiatives 44 Risk Factors (Bluegreen) or any other legislative measures that may be proposed or enacted in the future may have on our marketing strategies and results. Further, from time to time, complaints are filed against us by individuals claiming that they received calls in violation of the regulation. Currently, most states have taxed VOIs as real estate, imposing property taxes that are billed to the respective POAs that maintain the related resorts and have not sought to impose sales tax upon the sale of the VOI or accommodations tax upon the use of the VOI. From time to time, however, various states have attempted to promulgate new laws or apply existing laws impacting the taxation of VOIs to require that sales or accommodations taxes be collected. Should new state or local laws be implemented or interpreted to impose sales or accommodations taxes on VOIs, our business could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, consumers file complaints against us in the ordinary course of our business. We could be required to incur significant costs to resolve these complaints or enter into consents with regulators regarding our activities. We may not remain in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and violations of applicable laws may have adverse implications for us, including negative public relations, potential litigation and regulatory sanctions. The expense, negative publicity and potential sanctions associated with any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In addition, VOIs may in the future be deemed to be securities under federal or state law and therefore subject to applicable securities regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on us due to, among other things, the cost of compliance with such regulations. Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as common law, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including mold, located on, in or emanating from property that we own, lease or operate, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage at such property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our property or to borrow money using such property or receivables generated from the sale of such property as collateral. Noncompliance with environmental, health or safety requirements may require us to cease or alter operations at one or more of our properties. Further, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with one or more of our properties. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. The consolidated financial statements included in the reports we file with the SEC, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are, prepared in accordance with GAAP, which involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions. These estimates, judgments and assumptions include, but are not limited to, those related to future cash flows, which in turn are based upon expectations of our performance given current and projected forecasts of the economy in general and the real estate markets. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, including in the event the adverse conditions in the real estate market continue for longer than expected or deteriorate further or if our performance does not otherwise meet our expectations, we may be required to record impairment charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, GAAP requirements as to how certain estimates are made may result, for example, in asset valuations which ultimately would not be realized if we were to attempt to sell the asset. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff, and we may not be successful in doing so. As previously described, during January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against BBX Capital and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, who also serves as non-executive Chairman of our Board of Directors and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC. The lawsuit alleges violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to 45 Risk Factors (Bluegreen) Mr. Levan. While BBX Capital has disclosed that it believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. Our proposed merger with BFC may not be completed on the contemplated terms, or at all. As previously described, on November 14, 2012, we entered into a merger agreement with BFC, BFC’s subsidiary and Merger Sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of Woodbridge, which provides for Merger Sub to merge with and into Bluegreen, and for Bluegreen to continue as the surviving corporation of the merger and become a wholly owned subsidiary of Woodbridge. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, our shareholders (other than BFC and Woodbridge, and shareholders who exercise their appraisal rights in accordance with Massachusetts law) will receive $10.00 in cash for each share of our common stock that they hold at the effective time of the merger. There is no assurance that the financing necessary to consummate the merger will be obtained. If the merger is consummated, Bluegreen’s common stock will no longer be listed for trading on the NYSE or registered under the Exchange Act. There is no assurance that the merger will be consummated on the contemplated terms, or at all. If we are unable to complete the merger for any reason, we would have incurred significant costs without consummating the transaction. As previously described, we also issued $75.0 million of Notes on March 26, 2013 in connection with the proposed funding of the merger consideration. As previously described, purported class action lawsuits have been filed in Florida and Massachusetts which seek to enjoin the merger or, if it is completed, to recover relief as determined by the presiding court to be appropriate. While we believe the actions are without merit and we intend to continue to defend against them vigorously, the outcome of the actions is uncertain. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” for additional information regarding this litigation. We are also subject to risks and uncertainties during the pendency of the transaction. Specifically, in connection with our efforts to complete the merger, we have and may continue to incur substantial costs and divert significant management resources, including with respect to the class action litigation described above. In addition, the merger agreement contains restrictions on the conduct of our business until the closing of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement. If the merger is consummated, our common stock will no longer be listed for trading on the NYSE or registered under the Exchange Act. BFC holds a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. BFC, through Woodbridge, currently owns approximately 53% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Further, BFC is in a position to control shareholder votes on the election of directors and other matters requiring the approval of holders of a majority of the shares of our issued and outstanding common stock. Approval of our currently proposed merger with BFC required the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66-2/3% of our issued and outstanding common stock and received the affirmative vote of holders of 86% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. 46 Risk Factors (BBX Capital) RISKS RELATED TO BBX CAPITAL BBX Capital is a separate public company. The following discussion, which was included or is derived from disclosures contained in BBX Capital’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, which was prepared by BBX Capital’s management and describes the risks that BBX Capital’s management currently believes to be material to BBX Capital’s operations. References to the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” in the following discussion are references to BBX Capital and its subsidiaries and are not references to BFC or Bluegreen. Set forth below are the risk factors that BBX Capital believes to be material to its operations. Our business and operations and the mix of our assets significantly changed as a result of the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T and our financial condition and results of operations depends on the monetization of our assets at or near their current book values and our results of operations will vary depending upon the timing of such monetization. As a result of the BB&T Transaction, our business and operations significantly changed from our business and operations prior to the sale of BankAtlantic. As a consequence, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the near term, in large part, on our ability to successfully manage and monetize the assets currently held in CAM and BBX Partners and the assets held in FAR which we have been engaged to service, as well as the cash flow we receive based on our interest in FAR. Additionally, because a majority of FAR’s assets are serviced by a third party servicer, we are also dependent on the ability and efforts of our servicer to efficiently manage and monetize these assets. Further, nonaccrual loans and real estate are generally not easily salable in the event we decide to liquidate an asset through a sale transaction. Our financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the longer term on these factors as well as our ability to successfully invest these cash flows. If the assets held in CAM and BBX Partners and the assets held in FAR are not monetized at or near the current book values ascribed to them, or if these assets are liquidated for amounts less than book value, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, and our ability to successfully pursue our business goals could be adversely affected. Because a majority of these assets are nonaccrual and otherwise do not generate income on a regular basis, we do not expect to generate significant revenue or income with respect to these assets until such time as an asset is monetized through repayments or transactions involving the sale, joint venture or development of the underlying real estate. Accordingly, we expect our revenues and results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Our current business strategy includes a substantial investment in Woodbridge in connection with its acquisition of Bluegreen which exposes us to risks inherent in the time-share industry. BBX Capital’s anticipated investment in Woodbridge would expose it to risks inherent in the time-share industry. For a discussion of Bluegreen’s risk factors, see “Risks Related to Bluegreen” above. Our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investing in or acquiring middle market operating companies and some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Investments or acquisitions that we do complete may not prove to be successful or even if successful may not initially generate income, or may generate income on an irregular basis or over a long time period, thus causing our results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any acquisitions we make may: • fail to accomplish our strategic objectives; • not perform as expected; and/or • expose us to the risks of the business that we acquire. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions may rely on additional debt or equity financing. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A Common Stock. 47 Risk Factors (BBX Capital) If we do require additional financing in the future, the financing may not be available when needed or on favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. We plan to conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we may be adversely impacted by a joint venture partners' failure to fulfill their obligations. By using joint ventures, we can reduce the amount we invest in real estate properties. However, our joint venture partners may become financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture agreements. Most joint ventures borrow money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans is generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, we and our joint venture partners may be required to provide financial support. If joint venture partners do not perform on their obligations, we may incur significant expenditures which may have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the cumulative decline in median home prices in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in substantial non-performing assets and provision for loan losses. The loans retained by BBX Capital in the BankAtlantic Sale were primarily in the Florida market and adverse changes to the Florida economy or the real estate market may negatively impact BBX Capital’s earnings and financial condition. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us susceptible to credit losses from downturns in the real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida. The Company’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (mainly in Florida). The Company has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2012, 85% of the Company’s loan portfolio based on book value was located in Florida. An increase in the Company’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. BBX Capital is exposed to the risk that its borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. The Company’s management evaluates the collectability of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; a • estimated fair value of the collateral; and . • current economic conditions; Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in the Company’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect our ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if we perceive adverse trends that require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. 48 Risk Factors (BBX Capital) Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s non-performing loans totaled $204.6 million or 69% of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans and foreclosed real estate) were $293.2 million or 62% of our total assets. In addition, the Company had approximately $12.8 million in accruing loans that were 31-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2012. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income through foreclosure costs, operating expenses and taxes. Until we monetize these assets, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to these non-performing loans and non-performing assets. We record interest income on non-performing loans on a cash basis and generally incur operating losses associated with real estate owned. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans and non-performing assets adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we seek to manage our nonperforming assets, decreases in the value of these assets or deterioration in our borrowers’ financial condition, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of management time. FAR’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by properties located in South Florida. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida over the past several years has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to adverse conditions in the economy and real estate markets, financial institutions and other lenders have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends for home equity loan portfolios. The majority of FAR’s home equity loans are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If home prices remain depressed, FAR may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that FAR will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless FAR is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation which have resulted in significant non-interest expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include litigation which has been brought by the SEC, litigation arising out of our workouts and foreclosures, and legal proceedings associated with BankAtlantic’s tax certificate business. While, based on current information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a further discussion regarding the material legal proceedings to which the Company is currently subject. Adverse market conditions may affect our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult 49 Risk Factors (BBX Capital) market conditions. In particular, we may experience and may continue to be impacted by the following risks in connection with these events: • Our borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may adversely impact our ability to borrow funds on favorable terms or at all. . • Continued asset valuation declines could further increase our credit losses and result in additional impairments. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. The Company’s business, the primary source of repayment for its loans and the real estate collateralizing its loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as high unemployment rates, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. Our recent financial performance may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company incurred losses from continuing operations of $28.5 million, $59.5 million and $133.5 million during the years ended December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The Company’s ability to fund its operations and investment opportunities may depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to monetize its portfolio of non-performing loans and real estate owned. Its ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, as well as litigation and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to fund operations or anticipated investments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC owns shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 75% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B common stock representing approximately 71% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with our Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of our common stock and our Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. Our Class B Common Stock currently represents less than 1% of our common equity and 47% of our total voting power. As a result, the voting power of our Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. 50 Risk Factors (BBX Capital) Any issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of our Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by our Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 97,253 shares of our Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of our Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of our Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of our Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by our Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our charter documents and our recently adopted rights agreement may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of our Class B Common Stock; • the authority of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. On February 7, 2013, the Company entered into a Rights Agreement with its stock transfer agent which is designed to preserve certain tax benefits available to the Company. However, because the Rights Agreement provides a deterrent to investors from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in our Class A Common Stock, it may have an anti-takeover effect. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A Common Stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A Common Stock from the NYSE. The Company’s Class A Common Stock currently trades on the NYSE. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or, with respect to listed companies with shareholders’ equity of less than $50 million, the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $50 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. The NYSE’s market capitalization and equity requirements are based on the Company’s publicly traded stock at the holding company level. While the Company currently meets all NYSE listing requirements, the Company has from time to time in the past failed to maintain compliance with the trading price and market capitalization standards and may in the future fail to maintain the standards. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of skilled individuals. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract new employees as needed. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Alan Levan. While the Company believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. In the event Mr. Alan Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of the Company, the Company and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by the continuation of 51 Risk Factors (BBX Capital) service of other executive officers, including Mr. Abdo, who serves as a director and Vice Chairman of the Company and Jarett S. Levan, President, who previously served as President and CEO of BankAtlantic. . 52 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 53 