ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Regulatory restrictions, bank performance and the terms of indebtedness limit BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends which may impact our cash flow. At December 31, 2007, we held approximately 23.6% of the outstanding common stock of BankAtlantic Bancorp. Dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp are subject to a number of conditions, including the cash flow and profitability of BankAtlantic Bancorp, declaration of dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board of Directors, compliance with the terms of outstanding indebtedness, and regulatory restrictions applicable to BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate publicly traded company whose Board of Directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Decisions made by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board are not within our control and may not be made in our best interests. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a holding company and dividends from BankAtlantic represent a significant portion of its cash flows. BankAtlantic Bancorp uses dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its capital stock. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to regulatory limitations and the authority of the OTS and the FDIC. Generally, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. At December 31, 2007, BankAtlantic’s retained net deficit for the previous two years was $23.7 million and accordingly, BankAtlantic is required to obtain approval from the OTS in order to make capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. There is no assurance that the OTS will approve future capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The OTS may object to any capital distribution if it believes the distribution will be unsafe and unsound. The OTS is not likely to approve any distribution that would cause BankAtlantic to fail to meet its capital requirements on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the proposed distribution. The FDIC has backup authority to take enforcement action if it believes that a capital distribution by BankAtlantic constitutes an unsafe or unsound action or practice, even if the OTS has cleared the distribution. During 2007, we received $1.7 million in dividends from BankAtlantic Bancorp. However, in December 2007, BankAtlantic Bancorp reduced its quarterly dividend to $0.005 from $0.038 per share on its Class A and Class B Common Stock, which reduced the Company’s cash flow from dividends from BankAtlantic Bancorp. Based on BankAtlantic Bancorp’s current quarterly dividend payment of $0.005 per share, the Company’s dividend from BankAtlantic Bancorp is approximately $69,000 per quarter. Restrictions, operating performance and the terms of indebtedness limit the ability for Levitt to pay dividends, which may impact our cash flow. Levitt commenced paying a quarterly dividend to its shareholders in August 2004. Levitt paid a quarterly dividend in the first quarter of 2007 of $0.02 per share on its Class A and Class B common stock. This resulted in the Company receiving approximately $66,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2007. However, Levitt has not paid any dividends on its Class A or Class B common stock since the first quarter of 2007, and the Company does not anticipate that it will be receiving additional dividends from Levitt for the foreseeable future based on Levitt and Sons’ bankruptcy and the current real estate market. Future dividends from Levitt are subject to approval by Levitt’s Board of Directors (a majority of whom are independent directors) and will depend upon, among other factors, Levitt’s results of operations and financial condition. Levitt may also be limited contractually from paying dividends by the terms of its outstanding indebtedness. 38 Table of Contents We have in the past incurred operating cash flow deficits that we expect will continue in the future. BFC itself has no revenue generating operating activities and is a holding company engaged in making investments in operating businesses. Accordingly, we have in the past incurred operating cash flow deficits at the BFC parent company level and expect to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We incurred operating cash flow deficits of $5.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. We have financed these operating cash flow deficits with the proceeds of equity or debt financings. At December 31, 2007, BFC’s cash and cash equivalents balance was approximately $18.9 million. Since our acquisition strategy involves primarily long-term investments in growth oriented businesses, the investments made are not expected to generate cash flow to BFC in the near term. As a result, if cash flow from our subsidiaries is not sufficient to fund our operating expenses in the future, we may be forced to reduce operating expenses, to liquidate some of our investments or to seek to fund the expenses from the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such financing would be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would not be forced to liquidate our investments at depressed prices. Conditions and events where our investments are currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans are concentrated in Florida. Further, Levitt’s operations are concentrated in Florida and South Carolina and each of the states is subject to the risks of natural disasters, such as tropical storms and hurricanes. Natural disasters or the occurrence of an economic downturn or adverse changes in laws or regulations could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, the desirability of Levitt’s properties, the financial wherewithal of Levitt’s and BankAtlantic’s customers and the overall success of Levitt and BankAtlantic. Our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investing in and acquiring diverse operating companies and some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth with seasoned and experienced management teams, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Further, investments or acquisitions that we do complete may not prove to be successful. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any acquisitions we make may: • fail to accomplish our strategic objectives; • not perform as expected; and/or • expose us to the risks of the business that we acquire. Investments or acquisitions could initially reduce our per share earnings and add significant amortization expense or intangible asset charges. Since we have not historically generated significant excess cash flow from operations, we may rely on additional debt or equity financing to implement our acquisition strategy. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A and Class B Common Stock. If we do require additional financing in the future, there is no assurance that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain the required financing, we would be required to curtail or delay our acquisition plans or to liquidate certain of our assets. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. 39 Table of Contents Our activities and our subsidiaries’ activities are subject to a wide range of bank regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company and BankAtlantic Bancorp are each grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding companies and have broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. However, the OTS can stop either of us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to BankAtlantic Bancorp; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit the activities of BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp or us; or • impose capital requirements on us or BankAtlantic Bancorp. In addition, unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company, we and BankAtlantic Bancorp are not subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may in the future impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect our operations or those of BankAtlantic Bancorp, including our and BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. We have many competitors who may have greater financial resources or operate under fewer regulatory constraints than us. BFC will face competition in identifying and completing investments, including from strategic buyers, business development companies, private equity funds and other financial sponsors. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than us. This competition may make acquisitions more costly and may make it more difficult for us to identify attractive investments and successfully complete any desired transaction. Certain members of our Board of Directors and certain of our executive officers are also directors and executive officers of our affiliates. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, are also members of the Boards of Directors and/or executive officers of BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic, Levitt, Bluegreen and Benihana. Neither Mr. Levan nor Mr. Abdo is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of the Company, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of our affiliates than they devote directly to our operations. Additionally, D. Keith Cobb, a member of our Board of Directors is a member of the Board of Directors of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. Recent changes in accounting standards regarding the treatment of stock options could harm our ability to attract and retain employees and negatively impacts our results of operations. The Company’s net impact of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123R “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123R”) on the amount recognized in non-cash compensation expense was approximately $6.7 million and $7.8 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively, and approximately $1.1 million and $1.2 million, net of noncontrolling interests and income taxes, in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Stock options have historically been an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and BFC, BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt’s ability to attract and retain key personnel may be impacted if the scope of employee stock option programs is significantly reduced. In any event, if we continue to grant stock options, our future results of operations will be negatively impacted due to SFAS 123R. 40 Table of Contents Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and annual reports by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. While management was able to certify in connection with the Company’s audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007 that our internal control over financial reporting was effective and the Company’s auditors issued their report attesting to such certification, we cannot assure the reader that we will maintain the adequacy of our internal control. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Absolute assurance also cannot be provided that testing will reveal all material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting. In addition, since BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt are entities consolidated in our financial statements, our ability to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be dependent, in part, on the ability of each of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt to satisfy those requirements. Further, we may acquire privately-held businesses that are not then subject to the same stringent requirements for internal control as public companies. While we intend to address any material weaknesses at acquired consolidated companies, there is no assurance that this will be accomplished. If we fail to strengthen the effectiveness of acquired companies’ internal control, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Risks Associated with Our Investment in Benihana and the Restaurant Industry We have an investment in preferred shares of Benihana which are convertible to shares of Benihana’s Common Stock. As such, the value of our investment will be influenced by the market performance of Benihana’s Common Stock. Some of the risk factors common to the restaurant industry which might affect the performance of Benihana are as follows: • Changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; • Ability to compete with many food service businesses; • The availability and quality of ingredients and changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect results of operations; • The food service industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which could cause customers to avoid a particular restaurant, result in significant liabilities or litigation costs or damage reputation or brand recognition; • Health concerns relating to the consumption of food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact results of operations; • Increased labor costs or labor shortages could adversely affect results of operations; • The ability to obtain and maintain licenses and permits necessary to operate restaurants and compliance with laws could adversely affect operating results; • Seasonal fluctuations in business could adversely impact stock price; • The need for additional capital in the future which might not be available; and • The loss of key management personnel. Issuance of Additional Securities In The Future. There is generally no restriction on our ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over our Class A Common Stock. Likewise, there is also no restriction on the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp to issue additional capital stock or incur additional indebtedness. Authorized but unissued shares of our capital stock are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Directors, including issuances in connection with acquisitions. Any such issuances may be dilutive to our earnings per share or to our shareholders’ ownership position. 41 Table of Contents Our portfolio of equity securities subjects us to equity pricing risks. We maintain a portfolio of publicly traded and privately held equity securities that subject us to equity pricing risks arising in connection with changes in the relative values due to changing market and economic conditions. Volatility or a decline in the financial markets can negatively impact our net income as a result of devaluation of these investments. No market is available for our investment in Benihana Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. The 800,000 shares of Benihana Series B Convertible Preferred Stock owned by the Company are convertible into 1,578,943 shares of Benihana Common Stock. At December 31, 2007, the aggregate market value of such shares would have been $19.9 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our control position may adversely affect the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Levitt’s Class A Common Stock. As of December 31, 2007, we owned all of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 8,329,236 shares, or approximately 16.3%, of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, and we owned all of Levitt’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 18,676,955 shares, or approximately 19.7%, of Levitt’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. Our share holdings in BankAtlantic Bancorp represent approximately 55.6% of its total voting power, and our share holdings in Levitt represent approximately 54% of its total voting power (excluding the 6,145,582 shares of Levitt’s Class A common stock that we have agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to vote under the NYSE Letter Agreement.). Since the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock of each of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt vote as a single group on most matters, we are in a position to control BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt and elect BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Levitt’s Boards of Directors. As a consequence, we have the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates separate class votes. Our control position may have an adverse effect on the market prices of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Levitt’s Class A Common Stock. Alan B. Levan And John E. Abdo’s Control Position May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may be deemed to have beneficially owned, at December 31, 2007, approximately 22.6% and 14.0%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our total common stock. Collectively, these shares represented approximately 73.2% of our total voting power at December 31, 2007. Additionally, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo have agreed to vote their shares of our Class B common stock in favor of the election of the other to our Board of Directors for so long as they are willing and able to serve as directors of the Company. Further, John E. Abdo has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer certain of his shares of our Class B Common Stock and to obtain the consent of Alan B. Levan prior to the conversion of certain of his shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock. Since our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on most matters, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote and elect the members of our Board of Directors. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. Alan B. Levan’s and John E. Abdo’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. The terms of our articles of incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class. The Class A Common Stock possesses in the aggregate 22% of the total voting power of all our common stock and the Class B Common Stock possess in the aggregate the remaining 78% of the total voting power. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,800,000 shares, at which time the Class A Common Stock aggregate voting power will change to 40% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 60%. If the number of shares of Class B Common Stock 42 Table of Contents outstanding decreases to 1,400,000 shares, the Class A Common Stock aggregate voting power will change to 53% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 47%. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 500,000 shares, at which time the fixed voting percentages will be eliminated. These changes in the relative voting power represented by each class of our common stock are based only on the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding, thus issuances of Class A Common Stock will have no effect on these provisions. If additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued, it is likely that the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power will widen. While the amendment creating this capital structure was approved by our shareholders, the fixed voting percentage provisions are somewhat unique. If the market does not sufficiently accept this structure, the trading price and market for our Class A Common Stock would be adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents Financial Services Financial Services Segment Risk Factors Our Financial Services segment consists of BankAtlantic Bancorp, which is consolidated with BFC Financial Corporation. The only assets available to BFC Financial Corporation from BankAtlantic Bancorp are dividends when and if declared and paid by BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate public company and its management prepared the following Item 1A. Risk Factors regarding BankAtlantic Bancorp which was included in BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us” , “our” or “Parent Company” in the following discussion under the caption “Financial Services” are references to BankAtlantic Bancorp and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation. BankAtlantic A decline in the Florida real estate market has and may continue to adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market during 2007, and the continued decline in home sales and median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, resulted in a substantial increase in non-performing assets and our provision for loan losses. The housing industry is experiencing what many consider to be its worst downturn in 16 years and market conditions have continued to worsen throughout 2007 and into 2008 reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, certain national and regional home builders have sought or indicated that they may seek bankruptcy protection. If these market conditions do not improve during 2008 or deteriorate further, or if these market conditions and slowing economy negatively impact the commercial non-residential real estate market, our earnings and financial condition may be adversely impacted because a significant portion of our loans are secured by real estate in Florida, and the level of business deposits from customers dependent on the Florida real estate market and the Florida economy in general may decline. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.6 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 60% of its loan portfolio. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate lending which makes its loan portfolio more susceptible to credit losses in the current depressed real estate market. The national real estate market declined significantly during 2007, particularly in Florida, our primary lending area. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (virtually all of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout our markets in Florida). We have a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the real estate sector. We have identified three categories of loans in our commercial residential development loan portfolio that we believe have significant exposure to the declines in the Florida residential real estate market. These categories are as follows: The “builder land bank loan” category consists of 12 loans and aggregates $149.6 million. This category consists of land loans to borrowers who have or had land purchase option agreements with regional and/or national builders. These loans were originally underwritten based on projected sales of the developed lots to the builders/option holders, and timely repayment of the loans is primarily dependent upon the sale of the property pursuant to the options. If the lots are not sold as originally anticipated, BankAtlantic anticipates that the borrower may not be in a position to service the loan, with the likely result being an increase in nonperforming loans and loan losses in this category. The number of homebuilders who have publicly announced that they are, or are contemplating, terminating these options or seeking bankruptcy protection substantially increases the risk that the lots will not be acquired as contemplated. Six loans in this category totaling $86.5 million were on non-accrual at December 31, 2007. 44 Table of Contents Financial Services (Continued) The “land acquisition and development loan” category consists of 34 loans and aggregates $202.2 million and generally consists of loans secured by residential land which is intended to be developed by the borrower and sold to homebuilders. These loans are generally underwritten more stringently than builder land bank loans, as an option agreement with a regional or national builder did not exist at the origination date. Two loans in this category totaling $7.3 million were on non-accrual at December 31, 2007. The “land acquisition, development and construction loan” category consists of 29 loans and aggregates $151.3 million. This category generally consists of loans secured by residential land which will be fully developed by the borrower who may also construct homes on the property. These loans generally involve property with a longer investment and development horizon, are guaranteed by the borrower or individuals and/or are secured by additional collateral or equity such that it is expected that the borrower will have the ability to service the debt for a longer period of time. Seven loans in this category totaling $57.2 million were on non-accrual at December 31, 2007. Market conditions may result in BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current economic environment continues for a prolonged period of time or deteriorates further, collateral values may further decline and are likely to result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial real estate loans are approximately $102 million of commercial non-residential land development loans. Our commercial mortgage non-residential loan portfolio has performed better than our commercial residential development loan portfolio in the current real estate market environment. However, this portfolio could be susceptible to extended maturities or borrower default, and we could experience higher credit losses and non-performing loans in this portfolio as the Florida economy is showing signs of a slow down, capital markets involving commercial real estate loans have recently deteriorated, broader non residential real estate market conditions have begun to show signs of weakness and lenders have begun to tighten credit standards and limit availability of financing. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes large lending relationships, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $30 million. These relationships represented eight borrowers with an aggregate outstanding balance of $240 million as of December 31, 2007. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where we operate our store network. The decline in residential real estate prices and residential home sales throughout Florida has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in our home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve in the near term. Approximately 80% of the loans in our home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages and if current economic conditions deteriorate for borrowers and their home prices continue to fall, we may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio primarily consists of second mortgages, it is unlikely that we will be successful in recovering all or any portion of our loan proceeds in the event of a default unless we are prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio subjects it to high levels of credit risk. BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, BankAtlantic 45 Table of Contents Financial Services (Continued) seeks to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic attempts to manage credit exposure to individual borrowers and counter-parties on an aggregate basis including loans, securities, letters of credit, derivatives and unfunded commitments. While credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan and will not be in a position to make independent determinations in its sole discretion with respect to its interests. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. Approximately 50% of our purchased residential loan portfolio (approximately $1.1 billion) consists of interest-only loans. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, they are non-traditional loans due to reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages. Increase in the Allowance for Loan Losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic evaluates the collectibility of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • Previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. BankAtlantic may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. In addition, BankAtlantic’s regulators may require it to increase or decrease its allowance for loan losses even if BankAtlantic thinks such change is unjustified. 46 Table of Contents Financial Services (Continued) Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, and any economic downturn in Florida, including unemployment, declines in tourism, the declining real estate market, or adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The occurrence of an economic downturn in Florida, adverse changes in laws or regulations in Florida or natural disasters could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, growth, the level of deposits our customers maintain with BankAtlantic, the success of BankAtlantic’s customers’ business activities, and the ability of BankAtlantic to operate profitably. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, we cannot provide assurances that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. 47 Table of Contents Financial Services (Continued) In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in loan yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to quantify its interest rate risk, in support of its Asset/Liability Committee. This model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. During most of 2007, the short term interest rates were approximately equal to longer term rates. This is referred to as a “flat yield curve.” BankAtlantic’s net interest income is largely derived from a combination of two factors: the level of core deposits, such as demand savings and NOW deposits, and the ability of banks to raise short term deposits and other borrowings and invest them at longer maturities. The flat yield curve during 2007 significantly impacted the ability of BankAtlantic to profitably raise short term funds for longer term investment as the interest rate spread between short term and long term maturities was negligible. While the recent decline in interest rates and the widening of interest rate spreads between long-term and short term interest rates could lessen the negative impact of a flat yield curve on our net interest income, future patterns of interest rates, including the relationship between short term and long term rates, and its overall impact on our net interest income is very difficult to predict. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative and related infrastructure expansion to support a larger organization has resulted in higher operating expenses, which has had an adverse impact on our earnings. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative, the opening of 32 stores since January 2005 and the related expansion of our infrastructure and operations have required us to provide additional management resources, hire additional personnel, increase compensation, occupancy and marketing expenditures, and take steps to enhance and expand our operational and management information systems. Employee compensation, occupancy and equipment and advertising expenses have significantly increased since the inception of the initiative, during 2002, from $78.9 million during 2001 to $234.3 million during 2007. During the three years ended December 31, 2007, BankAtlantic opened 32 new stores. In 2007, in response to the current economic environment and its impact on BankAtlantic’s financial results, BankAtlantic slowed its retail network expansion and reduced its service hours in an effort to reduce operating expenses. Despite this decision to slow future store expansion, we will continue to incur increased operating expenses, compared to historical levels, resulting from the new stores opened during the last three years and the anticipated opening of four new stores during the first quarter of 2008. While BankAtlantic’s management is focused on reducing overall non interest expense, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in its efforts to reduce operating expenses. BankAtlantic’s new stores may not achieve profitability. Since January 2005, BankAtlantic has opened 32 stores and anticipates opening four stores during 2008. In the current adverse economic environment, the amount of time required for these new stores to become profitable is uncertain and the growth in deposits and loans at these stores may not meet management’s expectations. The new stores are located throughout Florida and represent a 51% increase, based on the number of stores, in BankAtlantic’s retail network. There is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in managing this expanded retail network profitably. BankAtlantic obtains a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts. BankAtlantic’s core deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could result in declines in core deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Also, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in an increase in overdraft fee charge-offs and a corresponding increase in our overdraft fee reserves. 48 Table of Contents Financial Services (Continued) Additionally, future changes in banking regulations, in particular limitations on retail customer fees, may impact this revenue source. Any of such changes could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. Regulatory Compliance. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. A risk of doing business in the banking industry is that a failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments, depending upon the type of violation and various other factors. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp see “Regulations and Supervision”. Parent Company BankAtlantic Bancorp services its debt and pays dividends primarily from dividends from BankAtlantic, which are subject to regulatory limits. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a holding company and dividends from BankAtlantic represent a significant portion of its cash flows. BankAtlantic Bancorp uses dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its capital stock. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to regulatory limitations and the authority of the OTS and the FDIC. Generally, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. At December 31, 2007, BankAtlantic’s accumulated net deficit for the previous two years was $23.7 million and accordingly, BankAtlantic is required to obtain approval from the OTS in order to make capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. There is no assurance that the OTS will approve future capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The OTS may object to any capital distribution if it believes the distribution will be unsafe and unsound. The OTS is not likely to approve any distribution that would cause BankAtlantic to fail to meet its capital requirements on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the proposed distribution. The FDIC has backup authority to take enforcement action if it believes that a capital distribution by BankAtlantic constitutes an unsafe or unsound action or practice, even if the OTS has cleared the distribution. At December 31, 2007, BankAtlantic Bancorp had approximately $294.2 million of indebtedness outstanding at the holding company level with maturities ranging from 2032 through 2037. The aggregate annual interest expense on this indebtedness is approximately $23.1 million based on interest rates at December 31, 2007 and is generally indexed to three-month LIBOR. During 2007, BankAtlantic Bancorp received $20 million of dividends from BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition and results would be adversely affected if the amounts needed to satisfy its debt obligations, including any additional indebtedness incurred in the future, significantly exceed the amount of dividends it receives from its subsidiaries. We are controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its control position may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2007, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 8,329,236 shares, or approximately 15%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 55% of the Company’s total voting power. Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC is in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders 49 Table of Contents Financial Services (Continued) of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. Our activities and our subsidiary’s activities are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to us; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit our activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • impose capital requirements on us. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company we are not subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect our operations including our ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision — Holding Company.” Our portfolio of equity securities subjects us to equity pricing risks. We maintain a portfolio of equity securities in both publicly traded and privately held companies that subject us to equity pricing risks arising in connection with changes in the values due to changing market and economic conditions. Volatility or a decline in the financial markets can negatively impact our net income as a result of devaluation of these investments and the subsequent recognition of other-than-temporary declines in value. At December 31, 2007, we had equity securities with a book value of approximately $123.0 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” In connection with the sale of Ryan Beck to Stifel in February 2007, we received approximately 2,377,354 shares of Stifel common stock and warrants to acquire 481,724 shares of Stifel common stock at $36.00 per share. In addition to limitations imposed by federal securities laws, we are subject to contractual restrictions which limit the number of Stifel shares that we are permitted to sell in the open market during the 18 month period following the sale. Even after these restrictions lapse, the trading market for Stifel shares may not be sufficiently liquid to enable us to sell Stifel common stock that we own without significantly reducing the market price of these shares, if we are able to sell them at all. In January 2008, we sold 250,000 shares of Stifel common stock to Stifel for net proceeds of $10.6 million. 50 Table of Contents Real Estate Development Real Estate Development Segment Risk Factors Our Real Estate Development segment consists of Levitt Corporation, which is consolidated with BFC Financial Corporation. The only assets available to BFC Financial Corporation are dividends when and if declared and paid by Levitt. Levitt is a separate public company and its management prepared the following Item 1A. Risk Factors regarding Levitt which was included in Levitt’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us”, “our” or “Parent Company” in the following discussion under the caption “Real Estate Development” are references to Levitt and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS GENERALLY We engage in real estate activities which are speculative and involve a high degree of risk The real estate industry is highly cyclical by nature, the current market is experiencing a significant decline and future market conditions are uncertain. Factors which adversely affect the real estate industry, many of which are beyond our control, include: • overbuilding or decreases in demand to acquire land; • the availability and cost of financing; • unfavorable interest rates and increases in inflation; • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • cost overruns, inclement weather, and labor and material shortages; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation, zoning laws and other regulations; • availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; and • increases in real estate taxes, insurance and other local government fees. There has been a decline in the homebuilding industry over the past two years and, if it continues, it could adversely affect land development activities at our Land Division. For the past two years, the homebuilding industry has experienced a significant decline in demand for new homes and a significant oversupply of lots and homes available for sale. The trends in the homebuilding industry continue to be unfavorable. Demand has slowed, as evidenced by fewer new orders and lower conversion rates, which has been exacerbated by increasing cancellation rates. The combination of the lower demand and higher inventories affects the amount of land that we are able to develop and sell in the future, as well as the prices at which we are able to sell the land. We cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the homebuilding industry will remain unfavorable, how active the market will be during the coming periods and how these factors will affect our Land Division. A substantial downturn or a further deterioration in the homebuilding industry will have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because real estate investments are illiquid, a decline in the real estate market or in the economy in general could adversely impact our business and our cash flow. Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Companies that invest in real estate have a limited ability to vary their portfolio of real estate investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, the market value of any or all of our properties or investments may decrease in the future. Moreover, we may not be able to timely dispose of an investment when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary, or complete the disposition of properties under contract to be sold, and any such dispositions may not provide proceeds in excess of the amount of our investment in the property or even in excess of the amount of any indebtedness secured by the property. Our inventory of real estate was $227.3 million at December 31, 2007. These land holdings subject us to a greater risk from declines in real estate values in our markets and are susceptible to impairment write-downs in the current real estate environment. Declines in real estate values or in the economy generally could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 51 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) Natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our real estate operations. The Florida and South Carolina markets in which we operate are subject to the risks of natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. These natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing the incurrence of uninsured losses, increased homebuyer insurance rates, delays in construction, and shortages and increased costs of labor and building materials. In addition to property damage, hurricanes may cause disruptions to our business operations. Approaching storms may require that operations be suspended in favor of storm preparation activities. After a storm has passed, construction-related resources such as sub-contracted labor and building materials are likely to be redeployed to hurricane recovery efforts. Governmental permitting and inspection activities may similarly be focused primarily on returning displaced residents to homes damaged by the storms rather than on new construction activity. Depending on the severity of the damage caused by the storms, disruptions such as these could last for several months. A portion of our revenues from land sales in our master-planned communities are recognized for accounting purposes under the percentage of completion method, therefore, if our actual results differ from our assumptions, our profitability may be reduced. Under the percentage of completion method of accounting for recognizing revenue, we record revenue and cost of sales as work on the project progresses based on the percentage of actual work incurred compared to the total estimated costs. This method relies on estimates of total expected project costs. Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in sales of real estate and cost of sales in the period when such estimates are revised. Variation of actual results compared to our estimated costs in these large master-planned communities could cause material changes to our net margins. Product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly which could adversely affect our business. Our commercial development business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the commercial real estate industries and can be costly. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. However, these insurance policies only protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims. In addition, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide reasonable assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, if applicable, are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is also currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to governmental regulations that may limit our operations, increase our expenses or subject us to liability. We are subject to laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies concerning, among other things: • environmental matters, including the presence of hazardous or toxic substances; • wetland preservation; • health and safety; • zoning, land use and other entitlements; • building design, and • density levels. 52 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) In developing a project and building commercial properties, we may be required to obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities regulating matters such as: • installation of utility services such as gas, electric, water and waste disposal; • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks and schools; • permitted land uses, and • the construction design, methods and materials used. These laws or regulations could, among other things: • establish building moratoriums; • limit the number of commercial properties that may be built; • change building codes and construction requirements affecting property under construction; • increase the cost of development and construction, and • delay development and construction. We may also, at times, not be in compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we are not in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to penalties or we may be forced to incur significant expenses to cure any noncompliance. In addition, some of our land and some of the land that we may acquire have not yet received planning approvals or entitlements necessary for planned or future development. Failure to obtain entitlements necessary for further development of this land on a timely basis or to the extent desired may adversely affect our future results. Several governmental authorities have also imposed impact fees as a means of defraying the cost of providing governmental services to developing areas, and many of these fees have increased significantly during recent years. Building moratoriums and changes in governmental regulations may subject us to delays or increased costs of construction or prohibit development of our properties We may be subject to delays or may be precluded from developing in certain communities because of building moratoriums or changes in statutes or rules that could be imposed in the future. The State of Florida and various counties have, in the past, and may, in the future, continue to declare moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and impose restrictions in areas where the infrastructure, such as roads, schools, parks, water and sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities, do not reach minimum standards. Additionally, certain counties in Florida, including counties where we are developing projects, have enacted more stringent building codes which have resulted in increased costs of construction. As a consequence, we may incur significant expenses in connection with complying with new regulatory requirements that we may not be able to pass on to buyers. We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure promptly to remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property, to use the property for our intended purpose, or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business. Insurance and surety companies may take actions that could negatively affect our business, including increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral or covenants on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, and refusing to 53 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We utilize community development district and special assessment district bonds to fund development costs and we will be responsible for assessments until the underlying property is sold. We establish community development district and special assessment district bonds to access tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at our master-planned communities. We are responsible for any assessed amounts until the underlying property is sold. We will continue to be responsible for the annual assessments if the property is never sold. Accordingly, if recent negative trends in the homebuilding industry do not improve, and we are forced to hold our land inventory longer than originally projected, we would be forced to pay a higher portion of annual assessments on property which is subject to assessments. We could be required to pay down a portion of the bonds in the event our entitlements were to decrease as to the number of residential units and/or commercial space that can be built on a parcel(s) encumbered by the bonds. In addition, Core Communities has guaranteed payments for assessments under the district bonds in Tradition, Florida which would require funding if future assessments to be allocated to property owners are insufficient to repay the bonds. The availability of tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at our master-planned communities may be affected by recent disruptions in credit markets, including the municipal bond market, by general economic conditions and by fluctuations in the real estate market. If we are not able to access this type of financing, we would be forced to obtain substitute financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to the Company, or at all. If we are not able to obtain financing for infrastructure development Core would be forced to use our own funds or delay development activity at the master-planned communities. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LEVITT AND SONS’ BANKRUPTCY FILING We cannot predict the effect that the Chapter 11 Cases will have on Levitt and Sons’ business and creditors or on Levitt Corporation There is no assurance that Levitt and Sons will be able to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate the Plan and that the Plan will be accepted. Third parties may seek and obtain Bankruptcy Court approval to propose and confirm the Plan. As a result, there is no assurance that the creditors will not seek to assert claims against Levitt Corporation or any of its subsidiaries other than Levitt and Sons, whether or not such claims have any merit and the risk that Levitt Corporation’s or any such subsidiary’s assets become subject to or included in Levitt and Sons’ bankruptcy case. In addition, Levitt Corporation files a consolidated federal income tax return, which means that the taxable income or tax losses of Levitt and Sons were included in the Company’s federal income tax return. At December 31, 2007, Levitt Corporation had a federal income tax receivable of $27.4 million as a result of losses incurred, which is anticipated to be collected upon filing the 2007 consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. The Creditors’ Committee of the Chapter 11 Cases has advised that they believe that the creditors are entitled to share in an unstated amount of the refund. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect that the Chapter 11 Cases will have on Levitt Corporation or whether it will adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Levitt and Sons’ bankruptcy and the publicity surrounding its filing may adversely affect Levitt Corporation and its subsidiaries other than Levitt and Sons. The businesses and relationships we had at Levitt and Sons may also be relationships we have at our other subsidiaries. These relationships could be affected by the Chapter 11 Cases of Levitt and Sons and it could materially affect our ability to conduct business with customers, suppliers and employees in the future. Levitt and Sons had surety bonds on most of their projects, some of which were subject to indemnity by Levitt Corporation. Levitt and Sons had $33.3 million in surety bonds relating to its ongoing projects at the time of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that these obligations are drawn and paid by the surety, Levitt Corporation could 54 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) be responsible for up to $12.0 million plus costs and expenses in accordance with the surety indemnity agreement for these instruments. As of December 31, 2007, we recorded $1.8 million in surety bonds accrual at Levitt Corporation related to certain bonds where management considers it probable that the Company will be required to reimburse the surety under the indemnity agreement. It is unclear, given the uncertainty involved in the Chapter 11 Cases, whether and to what extent the outstanding surety bonds of Levitt and Sons will be drawn and the extent to which Levitt Corporation may be responsible for additional amounts beyond this accrual. It is unlikely that Levitt Corporation would have the ability to receive any repayment, assets or other consideration as recovery of any amount it is required to pay. If losses on additional surety bonds are identified, we will need to take additional charges associated with Levitt Corporation’s exposure under our indemnities, and this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Levitt Corporation’s outstanding advances due from Levitt and Sons may not be repaid. Levitt Corporation has deconsolidated Levitt and Sons from its consolidated financial statements and reflects Levitt and Sons as a cost method investment as of December 31, 2007. At the time of deconsolidation, November 9, 2007, Levitt Corporation had a negative investment in Levitt and Sons of $123.0 million and there were outstanding advances due from Levitt and Sons of $67.8 million at Levitt Corporation, resulting in a net negative investment of $55.2 million. Since the Chapter 11 Cases were filed, Levitt Corporation has also incurred certain administrative costs in the amount of $1.4 million related to Post Petition Services. The payment by Levitt and Sons of its outstanding advances and the Post Petition Services expenses are subject to the risks inherent to creditors in the Chapter 11 Cases. Levitt and Sons may not have sufficient assets to repay Levitt Corporation for advances made to Levitt and Sons or the Post Petition Services and it is likely that some, if not all, of these amounts will not be recovered. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY Our outstanding debt instruments impose restrictions on our operations and activities and could adversely affect our financial condition At December 31, 2007, our consolidated debt was approximately $274.8 million of which $137.1 million relates to the Land Division. Debt associated with assets held for sale was $79.0 million. Certain loans which provide the primary financing for Tradition, Florida and Tradition Hilton Head have an annual appraisal and re-margining requirement. These provisions may require Core Communities, in circumstances where the value of its real estate securing these loans declines, to pay down a portion of the principal amount of the loan to bring the loan within specified minimum loan-to-value ratios. Accordingly, should land prices decline, reappraisals could result in significant future re-margining payments. In addition, all of our outstanding debt instruments require us to comply with certain financial covenants. Further, one of our debt instruments contains cross-default provisions, which could cause a default in this debt instrument if we default on other debt instruments. If we fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the holders of the applicable debt could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. These accelerations or significant re-margining payments could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash and cash flow from operations to payment of or on our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash for other purposes. Certain of our borrowings require us to repay specified amounts upon a sale of a portion of the property securing the debt. The borrowings may require additional principal payments in the event that the timing and the amount of sales are below those agreed to at the inception of the borrowing. Our anticipated minimum debt payment obligations in 2008 total approximately $12.2 million, of which $8.9 million relates to assets held for sale. These amounts do not include any amounts due upon a sale of the collateral, amounts due as a result of sales below expectations or re-margining payments that could be required in the event that property serving as collateral becomes impaired. Core is subject to provisions in its borrowing agreement that require additional principal payments, known as curtailment payments, in the event that sales, within a specific timeframe, are below those agreed to at the inception of the borrowing. In the event that agreed upon sales targets are not met in Tradition Hilton Head, total curtailment payments during 2008 could amount to $34.2 million. In January 2008, a $14.9 million curtailment payment was paid and an additional $19.3 million would be due in June 2008 if actual sales continue to be below the contractual requirements of the development loan. Unfavorable current trends in the 55 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) homebuilding industry could result in us holding property longer than projected which would increase the likelihood that sales of property would be below levels required by our lenders. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our existing credit facilities or any other financing sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Recent disruptions in the credit and capital markets could make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations, to refinance our indebtedness or to fund planned capital expenditures will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the real estate market and are, therefore, subject to many factors outside of our control. See risk factor below entitled “Our results may vary.” Our current land development plans may require additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We may need to obtain additional financing as we fund our current land development projects and pursue new investments. These funds may be obtained through public or private debt or equity financings, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances. We may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all, especially in light of the current adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets and the adverse conditions in municipal bond markets which impact our ability to access tax-exempt bond financing. Moreover, certain of our bank financing agreements contain provisions that limit the type and amount of debt we may incur in the future without our lenders’ consent. If we do not have access to additional capital, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our land development activities and we may not be able to pursue new investments. In addition, we may need to reduce capital expenditures and the size of our operations. There is no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to continue to develop our master-planned communities or pursue new investments as currently contemplated without additional financing or equity investment. Our results may vary. We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in operating results on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include: • the cyclical nature of the real estate industry, • prevailing interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing, • weather, • cost and availability of materials and labor, • competitive conditions, • timing of sales of land, • the timing of receipt of regulatory and other governmental approvals for land development projects, and • the timing of the sale of our commercial leasing operations. Margins in our Land Division are subject to significant volatility. Due to the nature and size of our individual land transactions, our Land Division results are subject to significant volatility. Historically, land sale revenues have been sporadic and have fluctuated dramatically and margins on land sales and the many factors which impact the margin may not remain at the current levels given the current downturn in the real estate markets where we own properties. Margins will fluctuate based upon changing sales prices and costs attributable to the land sold. Recent declines in the value of residential land, especially in Florida where Core’s Tradition, Florida community is located, could significantly adversely impact our margins. If the real estate markets deteriorate further or if the current downturn is prolonged, we may not be able to sell land at prices above our carrying cost or even in amounts necessary to repay our indebtedness. In addition to the impact of 56 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) economic and market factors, the sales price and margin of land sold varies depending upon: the location; the parcel size; whether the parcel is sold as raw land, partially developed land or individually developed lots; the degree to which the land is entitled; and whether the designated use of land is residential or commercial. In addition, our ability to realize margins may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: • shortages or increases in prices of construction materials; • natural disasters in the areas in which we operate; • lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; and • our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing our master-planned communities. We compete with other real estate developers, both regionally and nationally, for labor as well as raw materials, and the competition for materials has recently become global. Increased costs in labor and materials could cause increases in construction costs. In addition, the cost of sales of real estate is dependent upon the original cost of the land acquired, the timing of the acquisition of the land, and the amount of land development, interest and real estate tax costs capitalized to the particular land parcel during active development. Future margins will continue to vary based on these and other market factors. When commercial leasing projects become available for sale, they may not yield anticipated returns, which could harm our operating results, reduce cash flow, or cause management to choose not to sell certain commercial assets. A component of our business strategy is the development of commercial properties and assets for sale. These developments may not be as successful as expected due to the commercial leasing related risks discussed below, as well as the risks associated with real estate development generally, and the timeline involved in development and leasing. Development of commercial projects involve the risk of the significant time lag between commencement and completion of the project which subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuation in the general economy, failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms, inability to achieve projected rental rates, anticipated space that we will be able to lease new tenants, higher than estimated construction costs, including labor and material costs, and possible delay in completion of the project because of a number of factors, including weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters. Significant changes in economic conditions could adversely affect prospective tenants and our ability to lease newly developed properties and could result in our being forced to hold these properties for a longer period of time. We are dependent upon certain key tenants and decisions made by these tenants or adverse developments in the business of these tenants could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We own commercial real estate centers which are supported by “anchor” tenants which, due to size, reputation or other factors, are particularly responsible for drawing other tenants and shoppers to our centers in certain cases. We are subject to the risk that certain of these anchor tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. In addition, an anchor tenant may decide that a particular store is unprofitable and close its operations, and, while the tenant may continue to make rental payments, its failure to occupy its premises could have an adverse effect on the property. A lease termination by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center. Vacated anchor tenant space also tends to adversely affect the entire shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s power to draw customers to the center. We may not be able to quickly re-lease vacant 57 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) space on favorable terms, if at all. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. It may be difficult and costly to rent vacant space and space which may become vacant in future periods. Our goal is to improve the performance of our properties by leasing available space and re-leasing vacated space. However, we may not be able to maintain our overall occupancy levels. Our ability to continue to lease or re-lease vacant space in our commercial properties will be affected by many factors, including our properties’ locations, current market conditions and the provisions of the leases we enter into with the tenants at our properties. In fact, many of the factors which could cause our current tenants to vacate their space could also make it more difficult for us to release that space. The failure to lease or to re-lease vacant space on satisfactory terms could harm our operating results. If we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commission fees paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of making leasehold improvements. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. We currently have an Acting Chief Financial Officer and are in the process of seeking to recruit a permanent replacement. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining an experienced and knowledgeable Chief Financial Officer or other key management personnel. Our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investing in and acquiring diverse operating companies and some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth with seasoned and experienced management teams, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Further, investments or acquisitions that we do complete may not prove to be successful. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and may: • fail to accomplish our strategic objectives; • not perform as expected; and/or • expose us to the risks of the business that we acquire. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions could initially reduce our per share earnings and add significant amortization expense or intangible asset charges. Since our acquisition strategy involves holding investments for the foreseeable future and because we do not expect to generate significant excess cash flow from operations, we may rely on additional debt or equity financing to implement our acquisition strategy. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A common stock. If we do require additional financing in the future, there is no assurance that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain the required financing, we would be required to curtail or delay our acquisition plans or to liquidate certain of our assets. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. 58 Table of Contents Real Estate Development (Continued) Our controlling shareholders have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in limited circumstances. As of December 31, 2007, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned 1,219,031 shares of our Class B common stock, which represented all of our issued and outstanding Class B common stock, and 18,676,955 shares, or approximately 19.7%, of our issued and outstanding Class A common stock. In the aggregate these shares represent approximately 20.7% of our total equity and, excluding the 6,145,582 shares of our Class A common stock that BFC has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to vote in accordance with the Letter Agreement described in Item 8. — Financial Statements — Note 16, these shares represent approximately 54.0% of our total voting power. Since the Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters, BFC is in a position to control our company and elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own approximately 22.6% and 14.0% of the shares of BFC, respectively. Collectively, these shares represent approximately 73.2% of BFC’s total voting power. As a consequence, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote of Levitt Corporation, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR OWNERSHIP STAKE IN BLUEGREEN CORPORATION We own approximately 31% of the outstanding common stock of Bluegreen Corporation, a publicly-traded corporation whose common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “BXG”. Although traded on the New York Stock Exchange, our shares of Bluegreen’s common stock may be deemed restricted stock, which would limit our ability to liquidate our investment if we chose to do so. While we have made a significant investment in Bluegreen Corporation, we do not expect to receive any dividends from the company for the foreseeable future. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our earnings from our investment in Bluegreen were $10.3 million, compared to $9.7 million in 2006, and $12.7 million in 2005. At December 31, 2007, the book value of our investment in Bluegreen was $116.0 million. A significant portion of our earnings and book value are dependent upon Bluegreen’s ability to continue to generate earnings and maintain its market value. Further, declines in the market value of Bluegreen’s shares or other events that could impair the value of our holdings would have an adverse impact on the value of our investment. We review our investment in Bluegreen for impairment on an annual basis or as events or circumstances warrant for other than temporary declines in value. Bluegreen recently announced its intention to pursue a rights offering to its shareholders of up to $100 million of its common stock and we currently intend to participate in the rights offering. We refer you to the public reports filed by Bluegreen with the Securities and Exchange Commission for information regarding Bluegreen. 59 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 60 Table of Contents 