D. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, together with others that appear with the forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Scailex in this Annual Report, or in Scailex’s other SEC filings and public statements, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. 8 Risks Related to Our Business — We have sold our principal operating businesses and currently conduct only limited business activities. We sold the business of Scitex Digital Printing Inc., or SDP, one of our two principal operating subsidiaries, to Eastman Kodak Company, or Kodak, in January 2004. In November 2005, Scailex Vision, our remaining principal operating subsidiary, sold its business to Hewlett-Packard Company, or Hewlett-Packard. In August, 2006, we decreased our holdings in Jemtex from approximately 75% to approximately 15% (on a fully diluted basis). See “Item 4A. History and Development of the Company,” “Item 4B. Business Overview,” and “Item 10C. Material Contracts. Reorganization Contract between the Company and Senior Management of Jemtex”. As of the date of this Annual Report, we hold substantially all of our assets in cash and cash equivalents and in shares of ORL, a recently privatized oil refinery located in Haifa, Israel. Our plan of operation is to explore and consider strategic investments and business opportunities. Other than activities relating to attempting to locate such opportunities and activities relating to our holdings, primarily in ORL, we do not currently conduct any material operations. — We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities. While we are actively exploring strategic transactions and opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities. We may invest in entities having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics such as having limited or no potential for immediate earnings that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short term. In the event that we make new investments, a significant factor in our success will be the performance of target entities and their management, as well as numerous other factors beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to invest on terms favorable to us, or at all. — If we do not receive the mandatory control permit required to enter into an arrangement with Israel Corp. for joint control of ORL, we will hold a minority interest in ORL with no control. In addition, in such a case, we may opt to sell our shares at a loss if we elect to pursue alternative investments. In February 2007, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the “MOU”) with Israel Corp. for the joint acquisition of ORL’s shares and control thereof. Pursuant to the MOU, we initially purchased through PCH, our 80.1% subsidiary, 12.62% of the outstanding shares of ORL, and Israel Corp. acquired 40.98% of the outstanding shares. Israeli law requires that in order to exercise the rights associated with control of ORL or 24% or more of ORL’s share capital, including the right to receive dividends, the right to appoint directors and officials, and the right to exercise voting rights in the Annual General Meeting, a control permit from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister must be obtained, pursuant to the Israeli Government Companies Order (Declaration of the State’s Vital Interests in ORL) (2007). In addition, upon the acquisition of 25% or more of ORL’s share capital, Israeli law requires receipt of approval by the Commissioner of the Israeli Antitrust Authority. While we have received the required approval of the Antitrust Commissioner, we have experienced delays in receiving the control permit. As a result, in May 2007 we and Israel Corp revoked the MOU and entered into an irrevocable Deed of Undertaking, pursuant to which the parties agreed, inter alia, to apply separately for the control permit. Under the Deed of Undertaking, in the event that PCH succeeds by May 15, 2009 in receiving the control permit and any other required approvals (which may include an additional approval required from the Antitrust Commissioner as a result of the parties’ decision to apply separately for control permits), the parties will enter into a definitive agreement for joint control of ORL in the form attached as an exhibit to the Deed of Undertaking (the “Control Agreement”). Since signing the Deed of Undertaking, we have acquired, through PCH, additional ORL shares (independent of our arrangements with Israel Corp.), and currently hold approximately 13.4% of the outstanding share capital of ORL through PCH. 9 If we do not receive the control permit by the relevant authorities by May 15, 2009, we will not be able to enter into the Control Agreement with Israel Corp., and we would retain a minority interest in ORL with no influence over the activities of ORL, except as minority shareholders at ORL’s General Meetings. In addition, in such event, we may elect to find alternative investments, and we may elect to sell the ORL shares in order to pursue such other investments, subject to Israel Corp.‘s right of first refusal. Because the shares of ORL are publicly traded, in such an event we may opt to sell our shares in ORL at a loss, which may materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, in the event we do not enter into the Control Agreement with Israel Corp., we may not benefit from a premium to the share price that is often obtained when selling control of a company. See also “Item 4B. Business Overview” and “Item 10C. Material Contracts” below. — If we receive the control permit for the exercise of control of ORL, we may not be able to satisfy all of the applicable SEC reporting requirements related to our then ceasing to be a “shell company” for SEC reporting purposes. As a result, our shares may no longer be eligible for quotation on the OTCBB, which could materially and adversely affect the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares. Rules adopted by the SEC require a shell company that is reporting an event that causes it to cease being a shell company to disclose the same type of information that would be required to be provided in registering a class of securities under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This information must be filed within four business days of the completion of the transaction being reported. For the purposes of these rules, we are currently considered to be a shell company. If we receive the control permit from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and sign the Control Agreement with Israel Corp. for the joint control of ORL, we will cease to be a shell company. Because we have limited access to information about ORL until receipt of the control permit and because ORL’s financial reports are in accordance with Israeli, and not U.S., GAAP, we believe it unlikely that we will be able to satisfy all of the SEC reporting requirements related to this transaction, in particular within the required four business day period. As a result, our shares may no longer be eligible for quotation on the OTBB. This could further limit the availability of market price information and news coverage in the United States. In addition, it could diminish investors’ interest in our ordinary shares as well as materially adversely affect the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares. In addition, until such time as we satisfy all applicable SEC reporting requirements relating to this transaction, our ability to raise funds through the offering of securities in the United States will be impaired. — Our ability to obtain credit from certain Israeli banks may be impaired by reason of our investment in ORL. The guidelines of the Bank of Israel relating to the limitation of on the indebtedness of a borrower and a group of borrowers (a “Borrowers Group”) provide that in the event that an entity is held by more than one person, and such holding is material for any of those persons, then that person for which the holding is material may be deemed as part of a Borrowers Group together with that person’s controlling shareholders, the held entity and their respective subsidiaries. Accordingly, since the investment in ORL’s shares is material to us, we may be deemed part of a Borrowers Group, together with our controlling shareholder, ORL, and their respective subsidiaries. Moreover, in the event that we receive the control permit from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and enter into the Control Agreement with Israel Corp. for the joint control of ORL, pursuant to these guidelines, we may be deemed part of a Borrowers Group comprised of our controlling shareholders, companies controlled by us, ORL, Israel Corp. and their controlling shareholders and companies controlled by them. In either such case, such designation could adversely affect us should we apply to an Israeli bank for credit and it is determined that the entire debt of the Borrower Group to which we are deemed to belong exceeds the debt level permitted by the Bank of Israel guidelines. This may limit our ability to obtain credit from certain Israeli banks or may limit the amount of credit we may obtain. 10 — We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. Following the sale of the businesses of SDP and Scailex Vision and the investment of the cash proceeds of such transactions, we believe we are not an “investment company” under the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, because we are actively engaged in exploring and considering strategic investments and business opportunities and hold substantially all of our assets in cash and cash equivalents, except for our holdings in ORL. If we fail to receive the control permit for the exercise of control of ORL, and we otherwise fail to make other strategic, controlling investments, the likelihood of being deemed to be an investment company would increase over time and we may be required to seek exemptive or other relief from the SEC so as not to be regulated under the Investment Company Act. No assurance can be made that we will obtain such exemptive or other relief from the SEC, if and when we seek the same. If we were deemed to be an investment company, we would not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without obtaining exemptive relief from the SEC because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. As a result, we may be required to take certain actions with respect to the investment of our assets or the distribution of cash to shareholders in order to avoid being deemed an investment company, which actions may not be as favorable to us as if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act, and a violation of that act could subject us to material adverse consequences. We seek to conduct our operations, including by way of investing our cash and cash equivalents, to the extent possible so as not to become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. — We hold substantially all of our assets in cash and financial instrument, and in shares of ORL and are exposed to decreases in the value of our financial investments. As of December 31, 2006, we held, on a consolidated basis, approximately $303.5 million in cash and financial instruments, ($263.7 million presented as cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, $22.9 million presented as non current assets, $16.9 million of which is allocated to discontinued operations), which represent substantially all of our assets, other than our shares in ORL. Part of our cash on hand is held in different types of investment grade bonds. If the obligor of any of the bonds we hold defaults or undergoes a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in such obligor. We may also be subject to loss to the extent that the market value of these bonds decline, whether by reason of changes in interest rates or otherwise. This will adversely affect our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2006, see Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk–Presentation of Exchange Rate and Interest Rate Risk.” 11 — Since the shares of ORL, our major investment, are traded in NIS on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, we are subject to fluctuations in currency rates. We currently hold, through our 80.1% subsidiary, PCH, approximately 13.4% of the outstanding shares of ORL and do not currently have joint control over ORL. Unless and until we acquire joint control over ORL with Israel Corp., changes in the share price of ORL directly impact the capital reserve for the ORL investment in our shareholders’equity. Because ORL’s shares are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange Ltd. (“TASE”) and are quoted in NIS and our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, an appreciation of the NIS vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar would reduce the dollar value of our holdings in ORL, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity. — Poor performance by ORL and/or a reduction in the share price of ORL may materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected by the performance of the business of ORL and by its share price. As indicated above, unless and until we acquire joint control over ORL with Israel Corp., changes in the share price of ORL directly impact the capital reserve for the ORL investment in our shareholders’ equity. A decline in ORL’s share price, which may be caused by ORL’s performance or by many other factors beyond our control, would adversely impact our shareholders’ equity. Factors that could affect ORL’s share price include local and international macro, and micro, economic and other conditions. If and when we do acquire joint control over ORL, we will present our investment in ORL on an equity basis, in which event we will reflect a portion of ORL’s profits and losses in our consolidated financial statements. In such an event, ORL’s reporting of poor financial results would directly and adversely affect our financial results. — We are undergoing, and may in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits. As a result of tax audits or assessments in Israel or abroad related to the Company or to our subsidiaries which sold their operations, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. For more information about these audits and other tax assessments, please see under “Item 5B. – Liquidity & Capital Resources – Tax Audits.” — Scailex Vision is exposed to potential liabilities in connection with the sale of the business of Scailex Vision to Hewlett-Packard. Scailex Vision, a majority-owned subsidiary, has agreed to indemnify Hewlett-Packard for a period of two years ending November 2007 for certain breaches of the asset purchase agreement entered between them, including in the case of breaches of representations and warranties made by Scailex Vision, up to a cap of approximately $23 million. A claim against Scailex Vision could result in substantial costs, which would have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we havegenerated a significantamount of income from this transaction. Based on our and Scailex Vision’s assessment, we believe that Scailex Vision is in compliance with the representations and warranties made in connection with this transaction. To date, Hewlett Packard has filed an indemnification claim with the trustee to release an amount of $5.3 million of the total amount held in trust to secure the indemnification obligations. Scailex Vision has rejected this claim, but there is no assurance that Scailex Vision will be successful in defending its position. For more information, see “Item 10C. Material Contracts. Sale of Scailex Vision’s Business” below. 12 Risks Related to Operations in Israel — Political, economic and military instability in Israel or the Middle East may adversely affect our results of operations. Our corporate headquarters and the principal facilities of ORL and many of its suppliers are located in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Further, Israel was recently engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel, including Haifa and its vicinity. If the conflict is renewed in the north, and a missile strikes ORL’s installations, which are located in the vicinity of Haifa, it may materially and adversely impact the ability of ORL to operate. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our business. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians. These political, economic and military conditions might deter potential targets from effecting a business combination with an Israeli company. In addition, the operations and financial results of the remaining companies in which we have holdings could be adversely affected if political, economic or military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. In addition, some of our and of ORL’s directors, officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. All reservists are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our or ORL’s workforce and business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. — A litigant may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us, our officers and directors, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates, and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and — the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. 13 — Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Scailex. The Israeli Companies Law generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting, and which are not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager), have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (1) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (2) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or make more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which may adversely affect our ability to engage in a business combination and could depress our share price. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares — If there is no active trading market for our ordinary shares, our investors may be unable to sell their shares. In October 2006, the Company’s shares were de-listed from NASDAQ’s Global Market because the Company was determined by Nasdaq to be a public shell lacking any business operations, pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4300. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Company’s shares are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) in the United States. We cannot guarantee there will be an active trading market for our ordinary shares in the United States. We also cannot provide our investors with any assurance that our ordinary shares will continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or, if quoted, that there will be an active public market for our shares. Further, the OTCBB is not a listing service or exchange, but is instead a dealer quotation service for subscribing members. If our ordinary shares are not quoted on the OTCBB or if there is no public market for our ordinary shares, investors may not be able to resell the shares of our ordinary shares that they have purchased and may lose all of their investment, or they may be required to sell their shares on TASE, where liquidity of the shares also cannot be guaranteed. — We expect to qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2006. Unless U.S. holders of our shares make certain elections under U.S. federal income tax rules and regulations, they may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, a U.S. holder who disposes of, or is deemed to dispose of, our shares at a gain, or who receives, or is deemed to receive, certain distributions with respect to our shares, generally will be required to treat such gain or distributions as ordinary income earned ratably over the holder’s holding period and will be subject to a special tax and interest charge on amounts treated as earned during periods during which we are classified as a PFIC. Certain elections may be used to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares (“QEF elections” and “mark-to-market” elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income in excess of amounts actually distributed to the holder. In addition, because we are a PFIC, our distributions will not qualify for the reduced rate of U.S. federal income tax that applies to qualified dividends paid to non-corporate U.S. taxpayers. The PFIC rules are extremely complex; prospective U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our classification as a PFIC. See Item 10.E “Taxation – Certain Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” 14 — Volatility of our share price could adversely affect us and our shareholders. The market price for our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, such as: — market conditions or trends; — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and world-wide; — actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; — material corporate transactions; and — entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli companies in particular, has been highly volatile in the past four years. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. Shareholders may not be able to sell their ordinary shares following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to such volatility and we may not be able to raise capital through an offering of securities. — A single shareholder may be able to control us. In July 2006, Israel Petrochemicals Enterprise Ltd. (“IPE”) purchased an aggregate of approximately 49.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares from Clal Industries and Investments Ltd. (“Clal”) and Discount Investment Corporation Ltd. (“Discount”). As of June 17, 2007, IPE held 50.06% of the Company’s outstanding ordinary shares. As of June 17, 2007, IPE was held 60.91% by Modgal Industries (99) Ltd., 12.6% by ORL, and 6.85% by Keter Plastic, and Modgal Industries (99) Ltd. was held 50.14% by Modgal Ltd., 23% by European Holdings International Ltd., and 26.33% by Adler BV. As of June 17, 2007, Modgal Ltd. was held by 50% by Gima Investments Ltd. (held 37.5% each by Jacob Gottenstein and Alex Passal and 12.5% by each of Arie Silverberg and Micha Lazar), 47% by I.D. Federman Holdings Ltd. (held 49% by Adi Federman, 49% by Shelly Federman and 2% by their mother, Irit Federman) and 3% by Eran Schwartz. European Holdings International Ltd. is held by Petrol Investments Ltd. (50%) and Petco Investments Ltd. (50%). The shareholder of Petrol Investments Ltd. is David Federman, the husband of Irit Federman and father of Adi and Shelly Federman. Petco Investments Ltd. has the same shareholder structure as Gima Investments Ltd. As a result of the foregoing holdings, the corporate actions of the Company may be significantly influenced by the Federman family, Jacob Gottenstein, and Alex Passal. In addition, IPE may have sufficient voting power, subject to special approvals required by Israeli law for transactions involving controlling shareholders, to: — elect all of our directors (subject to the provisions of the Companies Law with regard to outside directors); and — approve or reject any merger, consolidation or other sale or liquidation event that requires approval of our shareholders. 15 This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. 