D. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, together with others that appear with the forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Scailex in this Report, or in Scailex’s other SEC filings and public statements, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business — Most of our assets are held in financial instruments, and we may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities. We sold the business of Scitex Digital Printing Inc., or SDP, one of our two principal operating subsidiaries, to Eastman Kodak Company, or Kodak, in January 2004. In November 2005, Scailex Vision, our remaining principal operating subsidiary, sold its business to Hewlett-Packard Company, or Hewlett-Packard. In August, 2006, we decreased our holdings in Jemtex from approximately 75% to approximately 15% (on a fully diluted basis). On June 30, 2008, we sold 100% of the share capital of our then wholly owned subsidiary, PCH, to IPE, our then controlling shareholder, following which we no longer had any interest in ORL. On September 29, 2008, we purchased from Suny assets of the Suny Telecom and Dynamic businesses. See “Item 4A. History and Development of the Company,” “Item 4B – Business Overview,” “Item 10C – Material Contracts – The PCH Sale Agreement, dated April 10, 2008” and “Item 10C – Material Contracts –Reorganization Contract between the Company and Senior Management of Jemtex”. As of the date of this Report, we hold approximately 80% of our assets in financial instruments. Our plan of operation is to explore and consider additional strategic investments and business opportunities. While we are actively exploring such opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities. We may invest in entities having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics, such as having limited or no potential for immediate earnings that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short term. In the event that we make new investments, a significant factor in our success will be the performance of target entities and their management, as well as numerous other factors beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to invest on terms favorable to us, or at all. 11 — We hold approximately 80% of our assets in financial instruments which are denominated in NIS. A decrease in interest rates in Israel could materially reduce our financial income. In addition, a significant portion of our assets could be subject to loss in the event of the failure of the Israeli banks in which we have deposited our funds. As of September 29, 2008, we held, on a consolidated basis, approximately $284 million in cash and financial instruments, which represented approximately 80% of our assets. The cash was primarily derived from our sale on June 30, 2008 of all of our shares in our then wholly owned subsidiary, PCH, to IPE, our then controlling shareholder, for the total sum of approximately NIS 1.14 billion (approximately $340.8 million) This transaction occurred concurrently with the purchase by Suny Electronics Ltd. from IPE of all of the Scailex shares held by IPE. On September 29, 2008, we purchased from Suny assets of the Suny Telecom and Dynamic businesses for the total sum of approximately NIS 255,809,000 (approximately $74.8 million), subject to certain adjustments. As a result of the change in our ownership resulting from the abovementioned agreement between Suny and IPE, our operating currency changed from dollars to shekels. Due to our significant investments in short term deposits in Israel, we are subject to the risk of a reduction of interest rates in Israel. A decrease in interest rates could materially reduce our financial income. In addition, we are exposed to the potential instability of the Israeli banks in which we have deposited our funds. In the event such banks fail due to the recent instability in the financial markets or for any other reason, a significant portion of our assets could be subject to loss. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2007, see Item 11 –“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk–Presentation of Exchange Rate and Interest Rate Risk." — We are undergoing, and may in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits. As a result of tax audits or assessments in Israel or abroad related to the Company or to our subsidiaries which sold their operations, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. For more information about these audits and other tax assessments, please see under “Item 5B. – Liquidity & Capital Resources – Tax Audits.” — We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. We believe that we are not subject to regulation or registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, because we are incorporated outside of the United States and are not publicly offering and do not propose to publicly offer our securities in the United States. We also do not promote our securities in the United States and our ordinary shares were delisted from Nasdaq. The Investment Company Act limits our ability to raise capital in the United States. If we fail to make strategic, controlling investments, the likelihood of being deemed to be engaged in an investment company business would increase over time. If we were to engage in a public offering of our securities in the United States or were deemed to promote our securities in the United States and also to be engaged in an investment company business, we may be required to seek exemptive or other relief from the SEC so as not to be regulated under the Investment Company Act. No assurance can be made that we would obtain such exemptive or other relief from the SEC, if and when we seek the same. As a result, we may be required to take certain actions with respect to the investment of our assets or the distribution of cash to our shareholders in order to avoid being deemed an investment company, which actions may not be as favorable to us as if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be an investment company and engaged in a public offering of our securities or promoting our securities in the United States, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act, and a violation of that act could subject us to material adverse consequences. 12 Risks Related to the Suny Telecom Business — The loss of Samsung as the sole supplier of mobile cellular phones and spare parts and accessories, or the loss of our exclusive relationship with Samsung, would have a material adverse effect on our Suny Telecom business. The Suny Telecom business is our primary area of operating activity. On a pro forma basis, giving effect to the acquisition of the Suny Telecom business as of the beginning of 2008, our revenues from the sale of Samsung’s mobile cellular phones, spare parts and accessories would have accounted for approximately 74% of our total revenues during the six month period ended June 30, 2008. Samsung, the number two manufacturer of mobile cellular phones in the world in 2007, is the sole supplier of our Suny Telecom business for mobile cellular phones and spare parts and accessories pursuant to distribution agreements with Samsung. One of the critical factors in the success of our Suny Telecom business is the existence of a reliable source of supply of quality and state-of-the-art mobile cellular phones. Samsung’s mobile cellular phones are viewed as innovative and reliable, with a high standard of design, and at an advanced technological level. We rely on the technological edge, innovation and strength of the Samsung brand, as well as Samsung’s ability to manufacture a large number of mobile cellular phone models using various technologies. In addition, we depend on Samsung to supply us with adequate inventories of popular mobile cellular phones on a timely basis and on favorable pricing and other terms. The loss of Samsung as our sole supplier, a substantial price increase imposed by Samsung, a shortage or oversupply of product available from Samsung or a tightening of credit terms granted by Samsung to us could have a material adverse impact on our business. We cannot assure you that the loss of Samsung as sole supplier, product shortages, product surpluses or a tightening of trade credit terms will not occur in the future. — Samsung may terminate its agreements with us if we fail to meet various annual sales targets or upon the occurrence of other triggering events. Such a termination would have a material adverse effect on our Suny Telecom business. We are party to two distribution agreements with Samsung, one granting us exclusive rights to market mobile cellular phones manufactured by Samsung using CDMA technology (the “CDMA Agreement”) and the other granting us exclusive rights to market mobile cellular phones manufactured by Samsung using GSM technology (the “GSM Agreement”). The CDMA Agreement expires on December 31, 2009, and the GSM Agreement expires on August 12, 2009. These agreements also cover accessories and spare parts. Under the terms of each of these agreements, we must meet certain annual sales targets provided that Samsung fulfills certain conditions. Our annual sales targets include achieving various commercial targets. Samsung may terminate or decide not to renew either or both agreements on an annual basis should we fail to meet these annual targets under the agreements, provided Samsung has fulfilled its obligations under the agreements. If Samsung terminates either or both of the CDMA and GSM Agreements and alternative sources of supply are not readily available, or if any of these agreements expire and are not renewed, or if we otherwise lose our exclusive relationship with Samsung, we expect that there will be a significant decline in the scope of operations of our Suny Telecom business and it will have a material adverse effect on our profitability. — We are dependent on three major customers, the major Israeli cellular network operators, to which we sell our products. The loss of any of these customers, or reduction in orders from any of these customers or a reduction in prices that we are able to charge these customers, could have a material adverse effect on our Suny Telecom business. The major customers of the Suny Telecom Business are the major operators of cellular networks in Israel: Pelephone Communications Ltd. (“Pelephone”), Cellcom Israel Ltd. (“Cellcom”) and Partner Communications Ltd. (“Partner”) (collectively, the “Cellular Operators”). Sales to Pelephone accounted for approximately 55% of the total sales of the Suny Telecom business in 2007, 59% of total sales in 2006 and 43% of total sales in 2005. Sales to Partner accounted for approximately 27% of the total sales of the Suny Telecom business in 2007, 24% of total sales in 2006 and 30% of total sales in 2005. Sales to Cellcom accounted for approximately 18% of the total sales of the Suny Telecom business in 2007, 17% of total sales in 2006 and 27% of total sales in 2005. We are dependent on the Cellular Operators, and the termination of our contractual relationship with any one or more of these Cellular Operators for any reason could have a material adverse effect on the sales volume and results of operations of our Suny Telecom business. 13 Additionally, our customers are not contractually obligated to purchase product from us. There can be no assurance that any of the Cellular Operators will continue to purchase products or services from us or that their purchases will be on the same terms or at the same or greater levels than in prior periods. The loss of any of our major customers, a material adverse change in the financial conditions of our major customers, a reduction in the amount of product or services our major customers order from us or the inability to maintain current terms, including price, with these or other customers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. — The technical failure by Samsung in the manufacture of its mobile cellular phones and/or our inability to adapt Samsung mobile cellular phones to the networks of cellular providers would have a material adverse effect on our sales. We sell mobile cellular phones that employ GSM technology to Partner and Cellcom and mobile cellular phones that employ CDMA technology to Pelephone. Samsung typically launches new mobile cellular phone models using the various technologies on an annual basis, primarily due to accelerated technological development in the sector and market demand for advanced technologies. The new mobile cellular phone models are characterized by increasingly sophisticated functions, using advanced technologies optimizing usage and rendering it more efficient and rapid, together with innovative design. The introduction of new sophisticated mobile cellular phone models to the Israeli market requires adequate engineering and marketing preparation to ensure that the Samsung mobile cellular phone models that we market are compatible with the technological and marketing demands of the Israeli cellular network operators and their end customers. We rely on Samsung to manufacture products that are satisfactory to our customers. If Samsung experiences any technical failures in its manufacture of its mobile cellular phones and or if we are unable or otherwise experience difficulties in adapting Samsung’s mobile cellular phones to the networks of the cellular providers in Israel to which we sell Samsung’s products, and no timely solution is found, our ability to provide satisfactory products to our customers could be disrupted and our reputation could be impaired. Defects in the mobile cellular phones that we market or in their incompatibility with the Israeli cellular networks may be detected only after deployment. Any resulting customer dissatisfaction is likely to result in a slowdown in sales volume, adverse effect to the reliability of the brand and our company and loss of major customers and/or market share. In addition, we assist Samsung in the development of applications relating to the use of the Hebrew language and correct operations in user manuals and incur significant costs in the process. If these applications fail to meet our customers’ needs, are incompatible with our customers’ cellular networks, are not widely accepted by our customers or are not profitable, we may not be able to recover the entire investment in the development of the applications. — Our success depends in part on timely introduction by Samsung of new products and technologies. Samsung’s failure to meet timelines for introduction of new mobile cellular phone models into the market could materially adversely affect our business. The markets for mobile cellular phones and related products are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and evolving industry standards. Our success depends, in substantial part, on the timely and successful introduction by Samsung of new products and upgrades of current products to comply with emerging industry standards and Samsung’s ability to address technological and product developments carried out by competing mobile cellular phone manufacturers. The many mobile cellular phone models on the market, the fierce competition and the required technological innovation create a situation whereby any deviation from the timelines set for launching new mobile cellular phones could result in a decline in the sales volumes of such phones, loss of a market share and loss of the funds invested in the development of those mobile cellular phones. The delay by Samsung’s in the development or introduction of new mobile cellular phone models, or the inability of Samsung to address technological and product developments carried out by competitors, could impair our revenue and operating results. 14 — The inability to accurately predict which mobile cellular phone models and features will be in demand in the market could have a material adverse effect on our Suny Telecom business. The mobile cellular phone sector in Israel is characterized by innovation, frequent changes in products and constant technological improvements, allowing end customers to benefit from a variety of state-of-the-art features, such as color, camera, music, links to computers, to the Internet and to TV broadcasts, high speed transmission of information and/or video files, among others. The market’s demand for innovation and advanced mobile cellular phone features are among the factors that encourage end customers to periodically replace and upgrade their mobile cellular phones. The research and development of new, technologically-advanced mobile cellular phones is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and investment, as well as accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. In addition, the process of selecting new Samsung mobile cellular phones to be marketed by us to the Cellular Operators involves an assessment of market requirements and trends with respect to such mobile cellular phones and their features. If we or Samsung is unable to accurately predict technological and market trends or if the Samsung mobile cellular phones that we market in Israel do not meet local market requirements, the revenues of our Suny Telecom business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may focus our own resources on technologies that are used and or developed by Samsung that do not become widely accepted or are not commercially viable, which would increase our expenses. — The transition of Pelephone, our major customer, from a cellular network employing CDMA technology to a cellular network employing GSM technology could have a material adverse effect on the Suny Telecom business. Approximately 55% of the revenues of the Suny Telecom business sales in 2007 were to Pelephone, the largest customer of the Suny Telecom business, which purchases from us mobile cellular phones employing the CDMA technology used by the Pelephone network. Pelephone has announced that it plans on converting from CDMA technology to GSM technology in the beginning of 2009. We anticipate that upon the activation of the new cellular network, competition vis-à-vis Pelephone due to the increased number of suppliers whose imported mobile cellular phones will be compatible with operation on the new GSM network. Such competition is likely to affect business results of our Suny Telecom Business. We are currently unable to estimate how the transition of Pelephone to a GSM cellular network will affect our results of operations. — We are subject to legislative and standardization limitations and special constraints applicable to the Suny Telecom business. The import of mobile cellular phones to Israel is subject to obtaining a trade license from the Ministry of Communications, in accordance with the Wireless Telegraph (New Version) Law, 5732 – 1972, and the regulations enacted thereunder. Furthermore, to import and sell mobile cellular phones in Israel the importer is required to have a type approval for each of the mobile cellular phone models that such importer seeks to import into Israel. Receipt of a type approval is subject to approval from the cellular network operator for the model the importer seeks to import or, in lieu of such cellular network operator’s approval, an international type approval recognized by the Ministry of Communications. Furthermore, the import of mobile cellular phone chargers, which are included with the Samsung handheld devices, is subject to the Israel Standards Institute approval. 15 Risks Related to the Dynamic Cellular Business — Our Dynamic Cellular Business is dependent on Cellcom. The loss of Cellcom as a customer of the Dynamic Cellular business or a significant loss of business from Cellcom could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the Dynamic Cellular business. Through our Dynamic Cellular business, we are engaged in the sale of mobile cellular phones of various manufacturers, as well as providing accessories and upgrade and maintenance services, in each case, to end customers of Cellcom, a major cellular network operator in Israel, through a chain of retail stores and booths in our ownership under the name “Dynamica”. Our Dynamic Cellular business markets mobile cellular phones only in the Cellcom network, and revenues from Cellcom and its end users constitute a significant share of the revenue of our Dynamic Cellular business. Revenues from Cellcom accounted for approximately 59% of the revenues in 2007, approximately 63% of the revenues in 2006 and approximately 58% of the revenues in 2005. One of the critical factors in the success of the Dynamic Cellular business is the creation of a long term engagement with a cellular operator for the purpose of sale and upgrade of that operator’s mobile cellular phones, including providing the service of connecting purchasers at the time of the purchase to the operator’s cellular network. Our Dynamic Cellular business depends on the continued Cellcom business strategy to outsource certain aspects of its business to us. Currently, we estimate that Cellcom performs most of its mobile cellular phone sale and upgrading through its own chain of stores and that we are the leading licensed marketer to which Cellcom outsources these activities. In addition, Cellcom instituted a policy beginning in the first half of 2005 to aim to be a major supplier of mobile cellular phones to its licensed marketers, and as a result we are also dependent on Cellcom as a supplier of mobile cellular phones not manufactured by Samsung in sale and upgrade transactions to Cellcom customers. Our agreement with Cellcom is non-exclusive and was recently extended until December 2011. There is no assurance that Cellcom will continue to outsource its sale and upgrade activities to licensed marketers or that it will continue to outsource such activities to us. In addition, there is no assurance that Cellcom will be able to continue to provide us with an adequate supply of mobile cellular phones other than Samsung mobile cellular phones. The loss of our contractual relationship with Cellcom would materially adversely affect the results of operations of our Dynamic Cellular business. — Our Dynamic Cellular Business is dependent on our Suny Telecom Business. A substantial portion of the mobile cellular phones that are sold by our Dynamic Cellular business are purchased from the Suny Telecom business. These phones accounted for 40% of the mobile cellular phones sold by the Dynamic Cellular business in 2007, 50% of the mobile cellular phones sold in 2006, and 55% of the mobile cellular phones sold by the Dynamic Cellular business in 2005. The termination or expiration of the distribution agreement between us and Samsung would also have a material adverse effect on the sales volume and results of operations of our Dynamic Cellular business. — Cellcom may not be able to adequately respond to rapid technological changes in the mobile cellular phone industry, which could cause us to lose customers. The technology relating to mobile cellular phones changes rapidly resulting in product obsolescence or short product life cycles. Competitors in the mobile cellular phone market are required to anticipate future technological changes and to continually identify, obtain and market new products in order to satisfy evolving industry and customer requirements. Our future revenues in the Dynamic Cellular Business will depend significantly on Cellcom’s ability to retain existing subscribers and to attract subscribers from the other cellular network operators. While Cellcom has historically kept its products, and we aim to keep our own products, competitive in terms of technological changes, there is no guarantee that Cellcom or we will continue to do so. If we are not able to do so, the revenues from the Dynamic Cellular business could suffer. If Cellcom is not able to do so, it may not be able to retain its subscribers and/or attract subscribers from other operators. This could materially affect our Dynamic Cellular business because it offers its products and services only to subscribers in the Cellcom network 16 — We provide upgrade, warranty and repair services to end customers of Cellcom through a chain of retail stores that we own. If we fail to provide high quality upgrade, warranty and repair services to end customers, we would lose customers, which would adversely affect the revenues that we generate from the Dynamic Cellular business. For the majority of the models of mobile cellular phones that we sell through our Cellular Dynamic business, we provide upgrade, warranty and repair services to end customers which are beyond the manufacturer’s warranty provided for the products. The service to the end customers is provided via 22 service stations throughout Israel, situated in the branches of the Cellular Dynamic chain. In addition, we also operate a central laboratory as a support hub for such service stations located in the chain’s stores. Our major competitor in the Dynamic Cellular business is Cellcom, which we estimate performs most of the mobile cellular phone sale and upgrade transactions and warranty services in the Cellcom network through its own chain of stores. In addition, there are other licensed marketers of Cellcom who compete with us to sell and upgrade mobile cellular phones in the Cellcom network and provide warranty and repair services to Cellcom’s end customers. If we fail to provide high quality upgrade, warranty and repair services to Cellcom’s end customers, we would lose customers, which would adversely affect the revenues that we generate from the Dynamic Cellular business. Risks Related to the Suny Telecom Business and to the Dynamic Cellular Business — Actual and alleged health risks relating to non-ionizing radiation generated from cellular telecommunications devices, including mobile cellular phones, could have a material adverse effect on the revenues and profitability of our Suny Telecom business and our Dynamic Cellular business. A number of studies have been conducted to examine the health effects of wireless phone use and network sites, and some of these studies have been construed as indicating that radiation from wireless phone use causes adverse health effects. Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from network sites, mobile cellular phones and other mobile telecommunication devices may raise various health concerns and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. While, to the best of our knowledge, the mobile cellular phones that we market comply with the applicable legislation that relate to acceptable “specific absorption rate,” or SAR, levels, we rely on the SAR levels published by the manufacturers of these mobile cellular phones, and we do not perform independent inspections of the SAR levels of these mobile cellular phones. As the manufacturers’ approvals refer to a prototype mobile cellular phone, we have no information as to the actual level of SAR of the mobile cellular phones throughout the lifecycle of the mobile cellular phones, including in the case of mobile cellular phone repair. Several lawsuits have been filed outside of Israel against operators and other participants in the wireless industry alleging adverse health effects and other claims relating to radio frequency transmissions to and from mobile cellular phones and other mobile telecommunications devices. We may be subject to potential future litigation relating to these health concerns. Also, if health concerns over non-ionizing radiation increase, adverse findings in new studies of non-ionizing radiation are published or if non-ionizing radiation levels are found to be higher than the standards set for mobile cellular phones, consumers may be discouraged from using mobile cellular phones and regulators may impose additional restrictions on usage of these phones. As a result, we may lose revenues due to decreasing usage of the mobile cellular phones, and we may be subject to health-related claims for substantial sums. We have not obtained insurance for these potential claims. An adverse outcome to, or settlement of, any health-related litigation against us or any other provider of cellular services could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. 17 — Potential technological and other changes in the telecommunications industry in Israel could have a material adverse effect on our Suny Telecom business and on our Dynamic Cellular business. There is substantial competition in all aspects of the cellular communications market in Israel, and we expect this to continue in the future due to the highly penetrated state of this market. Further, technologies such as satellite-based personal communications services, wireless broadband access services such as worldwide interoperability for microwave access (“WiMAX”), Wi-Fi and other technologies that have the capacity to handle cellular calls may enter this market and compete with traditional cellular providers, thus further intensifying competition in this market. In March 2008, a public commission appointed by the Israeli Ministry of Communications recommended to publish a WiMAX frequencies tender for mobile use. It also recommended, among other things, to accelerate the procedures necessary to allow the entry of mobile virtual network operators (“MVNO”) into the Israeli telecommunications market. Any of these developments in the market may require us to reduce prices and/or cause a reduction in the purchases made by our customers, either of which would adversely affect our results of operations. — The growth in our Suny Telecom business and in our Dynamic Cellular business is dependent on growth in the mobile cellular phone industry. The demand for our products also depends in large part on the continued growth of the mobile cellular phone industry. Although Israel’s mobile telephone market has experienced substantial growth, the Israeli market for mobile telephone services is now highly penetrated, and the growth of the overall Israeli market and of cellular providers’subscriber base has been slower than in the past. A marked decline in growth of the mobile cellular phone industry and/or demand for wireless products in the areas in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business. Our future revenues in the Suny Telecom business and the Dynamic Cellular business will depend significantly on our customers’ ability to retain existing subscribers and to attract new subscribers. — General economic conditions, a decline in consumer discretionary spending or other conditions may materially adversely impact our sales in a disproportionate fashion. We sell products and services that consumers tend to view as conveniences rather than necessities. In addition, we enjoy a relative edge over other distributors and retailers in the sale of higher cost mobile cellular phones with state-of-the art features. As a result, our results of operations are more sensitive to changes in general economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions and other factors, including consumer confidence and the availability of consumer credit, could reduce consumer spending or change consumer purchasing habits. A general slowdown in the Israeli economy or in the global economy, or an uncertain economic outlook, could materially adversely affect consumer spending habits and our operating results. — Change in the duties that are imposed on the mobile phones, accessories and spare parts that we import could affect the profitability of our Suny Telecom business and on our Dynamic Cellular business. Mobile cellular phones, accessories and some of the spare parts imported by us are subject to duties at different rates, affecting the prices of the products. Changes in the rates of these duties are likely to affect product prices as well as our profitability. Risks Related to Operations in Israel — Political, economic and military instability in Israel or the Middle East may adversely affect our results of operations. Our corporate headquarters are located in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Further, in 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. 18 Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our business. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians. These political, economic and military conditions might deter potential targets from effecting a business combination with an Israeli company. In addition, the operations and financial results of the remaining companies in which we have holdings could be adversely affected if political, economic or military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. In addition, some of our directors and officers are currently obligated to perform reserve duty periodically. Also, all reservists are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce and business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. — A litigant may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us, our officers and directors, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates, and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, and any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and — the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. — Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Scailex. The Israeli Companies Law generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting, and which are not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager), have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (1) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (2) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. 19 Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or make more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which may adversely affect our ability to engage in a business combination and could depress our share price. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares — If there is no active trading market for our ordinary shares, our investors may be unable to sell their shares. In October 2006, the Company’s shares were de-listed from NASDAQ’s Global Market because the Company was determined by Nasdaq to be a public shell lacking any business operations, pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4300. As of the date of this Report, the Company’s shares are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) in the United States. We cannot guarantee there will be an active trading market for our ordinary shares in the United States. We also cannot provide our investors with any assurance that our ordinary shares will continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or, if quoted, that there will be an active public market for our shares. Further, the OTCBB is not a listing service or exchange, but is instead a dealer quotation service for subscribing members. If our ordinary shares are not quoted on the OTCBB or if there is no public market for our ordinary shares, investors may not be able to resell the shares of our ordinary shares that they have purchased and may lose all of their investment, or they may be required to sell their shares on TASE, where liquidity of the shares also cannot be guaranteed. — We expect to qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2007, as it was in 2006. Unless U.S. holders of our shares make certain elections under U.S. federal income tax rules and regulations, they may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, a U.S. holder who disposes of, or is deemed to dispose of, our shares at a gain, or who receives, or is deemed to receive, certain distributions with respect to our shares, generally will be required to treat such gain or distributions as ordinary income earned ratably over the holder’s holding period and will be subject to a special tax and interest charge on amounts treated as earned during periods during which we are classified as a PFIC. Certain elections may be used to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares (“QEF elections” and “mark-to-market” elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income in excess of amounts actually distributed to the holder. In addition, because we are a PFIC, our distributions will not qualify for the reduced rate of U.S. federal income tax that applies to qualified dividends paid to non-corporate U.S. taxpayers. The PFIC rules are extremely complex; prospective U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our classification as a PFIC. See Item 10.E “Taxation – Certain Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” 20 — Volatility of our share price could adversely affect us and our shareholders. The market price for our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, such as: — market conditions or trends; — political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and world-wide; — actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and/or assets; — material corporate transactions; and — entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli companies in particular, has been highly volatile in the past few years and especially during the last few weeks. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance and financial situation. Shareholders may not be able to sell their ordinary shares following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to such volatility, and we may not be able to raise capital through an offering of securities. — A single shareholder may be able to control us. As of September 29, 2008, Suny was our largest shareholder, holding approximately 64.22% of our outstanding ordinary shares, and Tao Tsuot Ltd. (“Tao”) held approximately 24.71% of our shares. As of September 29, 2008, Ben Dov Holdings Ltd., a company wholly-owned by Mr. Ilan Ben Dov, owned 68.59% of the shares of Suny, and Mr. Ben Dov, directly and through Harmony (Ben Dov) Ltd., a company wholly-owned by Mr. Ben Dov, beneficially owned 83.24% of the shares of Tao. Therefore, as of September 29, 2008, Mr. Ben Dov may be deemed to have beneficially owned all of the shares held directly by Suny and Tao. As a result of the foregoing holdings, the corporate actions of the Company may be significantly influenced by Suny and by Mr. Ilan Ben Dov, the indirect controlling shareholder of Suny. In addition, Suny may have sufficient voting power, subject to special approvals required by Israeli law for transactions involving controlling shareholders, to: — elect all of our directors (subject to the provisions of the Companies Law with regard to outside directors); and — approve or reject any merger, consolidation or other sale or liquidation event that requires approval of our shareholders. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. 21 