ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We depend on dividends from our subsidiaries for a significant portion of our cash flow. Regulatory restrictions and the terms of indebtedness limit the ability of some of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. At December 31, 2005, we held approximately 21.7% of the outstanding common stock of BankAtlantic Bancorp and 16.6% of the outstanding common stock of Levitt, representing in the aggregate approximately 75.8% of our total assets. Dividends by each of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt are subject to a number of conditions, including the cash flow and profitability of each company, declaration by each company’s Board of Directors, compliance with the terms of each company’s outstanding indebtedness, and in the case of BankAtlantic Bancorp, regulatory restrictions applicable to BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt are separate publicly traded companies whose Boards of Directors include a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Decisions made by these Boards are not within our control and may not be made in our best interests. BankAtlantic Bancorp is the holding company for BankAtlantic and owns 100% of BankAtlantic’s outstanding capital stock. We depend upon dividends from BankAtlantic Bancorp for a significant portion of our cash flow. In turn, BankAtlantic Bancorp depends upon dividends from BankAtlantic for a significant portion of its cash flow. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to the regulatory authority of the Office of Thrift Supervision, or the OTS, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. In general, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution and BankAtlantic maintains eligibility for “expedited treatment” under applicable OTS regulations. Expedited treatment is generally available as long as BankAtlantic, among other things, maintains specified minimum levels of regulatory ratings and capital. BankAtlantic currently qualifies for expedited treatment, but there can be no assurance that it will maintain its current status. Although no prior OTS approval may be necessary, BankAtlantic is required to give the OTS thirty days notice before making any capital distribution to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The OTS may object to any capital distribution if it believes the distribution will be unsafe and unsound. While additional capital distributions above the limit for an expedited status institution are possible, such distributions would require the prior approval of the OTS. The OTS is not likely to approve any distribution that would cause BankAtlantic to fail its capital requirements on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the proposed distribution. Further, the FDIC has authority to take enforcement action if it believes that a dividend or capital distribution by BankAtlantic constitutes an unsafe or unsound action or practice, even if the OTS has cleared the distribution. We also depend on dividends from Levitt. Levitt commenced paying a quarterly dividend in August 2004. Future dividends are subject to Levitt’s results and dividends from its subsidiaries and declaration by Levitt’s Board of Directors. Levitt may also be limited contractually from paying dividends by the terms of its outstanding indebtedness. Levitt’s subsidiaries currently have outstanding indebtedness, and may in the future incur additional indebtedness, the terms of which limit the payment of dividends by the subsidiaries to Levitt. We have in the past incurred operating cash flow deficits that we expect will continue in the future. BFC itself has no revenue generating operating activities and is a holding company engaged in making investments in operating businesses. Accordingly, we have in the past incurred operating cash flow deficits at the BFC parent company level and expect to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We incurred operating cash flow deficits of $6.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 and $2.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. We have financed these operating cash flow deficits with the proceeds of equity or debt financings. We have used and intend to continue to use a portion of the proceeds from the June 2005 equity offering to fund BFC operating expenses. Since our acquisition strategy involves primarily long-term investments in growth oriented businesses, the investments made are not likely to generate cash flow to BFC in the near term. As a result, if cash flow from our subsidiaries is not sufficient to fund parent company operating expenses in the future, we may be forced to reduce operating expenses, to liquidate some of our investments or to seek to fund the expenses from the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such financing would be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would not be forced to liquidate our investments at depressed prices. 29 Table of Contents Events in Florida, where our investments are currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans are concentrated in Florida. Further, Levitt develops and sells its properties primarily in Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The occurrence of an economic downturn in Florida, adverse changes in laws or regulations in Florida or natural disasters could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, the desirability of Levitt’s properties, the financial wherewithal of Levitt’s and BankAtlantic’s customers and the overall success of Levitt and BankAtlantic. Our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investing in and acquiring diverse operating companies and some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth with seasoned and experienced management teams, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Further, investments or acquisitions that we do complete may not prove to be successful. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any acquisitions we make may: • fail to accomplish our strategic objectives; • not perform as expected; and • expose us to the risks of the business that we acquire. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions could initially reduce our per share earnings and add significant amortization expense or intangible asset charges. Since our acquisition strategy involves holding investments for the foreseeable future and because we do not expect to generate significant excess cash flow from operations, we may rely on additional debt or equity financing to implement our acquisition strategy. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A Common Stock. If we do require additional financing in the future, we cannot assure the reader that it will be available on favorable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain the required financing, we would be required to curtail or delay our acquisition plans or to liquidate certain of our assets. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. Our activities and our subsidiaries’ activities are subject to a wide range of bank regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company and BankAtlantic Bancorp are each grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding companies and have broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can stop either of us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to BankAtlantic Bancorp; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit the activities of BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp or us; or • impose capital requirements on us or BankAtlantic Bancorp. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company, we and BankAtlantic Bancorp are not subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may in the future impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect our operations or those of BankAtlantic Bancorp, including our and BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. 30 Table of Contents We have many competitors who may have greater financial resources or operate under fewer regulatory constraints. BFC will face competition in identifying and completing investments, including from strategic buyers, business development companies, private equity funds and other financial sponsors. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial resources than us. This competition may make acquisitions more costly and may make it more difficult for us to identify attractive investments and successfully complete any desired transaction. Our success depends on key management, the loss of which could disrupt our business operations. Our future success depends largely upon the continued efforts and abilities of key management employees, including Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, Glen R. Gilbert, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Phil Bakes, our Managing Director and Executive Vice President. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain members of our Board of Directors and certain of our executive officers are also directors and executive officers of our affiliates. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, are also members of the Board of Directors and/or executive officers of BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic, Levitt Corporation and Bluegreen Corporation. Neither Mr. Levan nor Mr. Abdo is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of the Company, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of our affiliates than they devote directly to our operations. Additionally, D. Keith Cobb, a member of our Board of Directors is a member of the Board of Directors of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. Recent changes in accounting standards could limit the desirability of granting stock options, which could harm our ability to attract and retain employees, and could also negatively impact our results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board is requiring all companies to treat the fair value of stock options granted to employees as an expense effective for the first interim or annual reporting period of a company’s first fiscal year that begins on or after June 15, 2005. Accordingly, we and other companies are now required to record a compensation expense equal to the fair value of each stock option granted. Since we are required to expense the fair value of stock option grants, it may reduce the attractiveness of granting stock options because of the additional expense associated with these grants, which would negatively impact our results of operations. For example, had BFC, BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt been required to expense stock option grants during 2005 by applying the measurement provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” our recorded net income available to commons shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005 of approximately $12.0 million would have been reduced to approximately $10.8 million. Stock options have historically been an important employee recruitment and retention tool, and BFC, BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt’s ability to attract and retain key personnel may be impacted if the scope of employee stock option programs is significantly reduced. In any event, if we continue to grant stock options, our future results of operations will be negatively impacted due to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. While management was able to certify in connection with the Company’s audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective and the Company’s auditors issued their attestation of such report, we cannot assure the reader that we will maintain the adequacy of our internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Absolute assurance also cannot be provided that testing will reveal all material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting. In addition, since BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt are entities consolidated in our financial statements, our ability to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be dependent, in part, on the ability of each of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt to satisfy those requirements. Further, we may acquire privately-held businesses that are not then subject to the same stringent requirements for internal controls as public companies. While we intend to address any material weaknesses at acquired consolidated companies, there is no assurance that this will be 31 Table of Contents accomplished. If we fail to strengthen the effectiveness of acquired companies’ internal controls, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Risks Associated with Our Investment in Benihana, Inc. and the Restaurant Industry We have an investment in preferred shares of Benihana which are convertible to common stock. As such, the value of our investment will be influenced by the market performance of Benihana’s stock. Some of the risk factors common to the restaurant industry which might affect the performance of Benihana are as follows: • Need for additional capital in the future which might not be available; • Changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending; • Ability to compete with many food service businesses; • The availability and quality of ingredients and changes in food and supply costs could adversely affect results of operations; • Food service industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which could cause customers to avoid a particular restaurant result in significant liabilities or litigation costs or damage reputation or brand recognition; • Health concerns relating to the consumption of food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact results of operation; • Increased labor costs or labor shortages could adversely affect results of operations; • The ability to obtain and maintain licenses and permits necessary to operate restaurants and compliance with laws could adversely affect operating results; • Seasonal fluctuations in business could adversely impact stock price; and • The loss of key management personnel. We May Issue Additional Securities In The Future. There is generally no restriction on our ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over our Class A Common Stock. Likewise, there is also no restriction on the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp or Levitt to issue additional capital stock or incur additional indebtedness. Authorized but unissued shares of our capital stock are available for issuance from time to time in the discretion of our Board of Directors, including issuances in connection with acquisitions. Any such issuances may be dilutive to our earnings per share or to our shareholders’ ownership position. We do not anticipate that we will seek shareholder approval in connection with any future issuances of our stock unless we are required by law or the rules of any stock exchange on which our securities are listed. There are no limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or issue additional notes or debentures. Alan B. Levan And John E. Abdo’s Control Position May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may be deemed to have beneficially owned at December 31, 2005 approximately 47.2% of our Class A Common Stock and 88.02% of our Class B Common Stock. These shares represented approximately 55.2% of our total common stock and 79.0% of our total voting power at December 31, 2005. Since our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on most matters, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote and elect the members of our Board of Directors. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 32 Table of Contents Our control position may adversely affect the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Levitt’s Class A Common Stock. As of December 31, 2005, we owned all of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 8,329,236 shares, or approximately 14.9%, of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. As of December 31, 2005, we owned all of Levitt’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 2,074,243 shares, or approximately 11.2%, of Levitt’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. Our share holdings in BankAtlantic Bancorp represent approximately 54.9% of its total voting power, and our share holdings in Levitt represent approximately 52.9% of its total voting power. Since the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock of each of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt vote as a single group on most matters, we are in a position to control BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt and elect BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Levitt’s Board of Directors. As a consequence, we have the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Levitt, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. Our control position may have an adverse effect on the market prices of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Levitt’s Class A Common Stock. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may be deemed under SEC Rules to have an aggregate beneficial ownership of shares of our outstanding common stock representing in the aggregate 55.2% of our total common stock and 79.0% of the total voting power of all of our common stock at December 31, 2005. The terms of our articles of incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class. The Class A Common Stock possesses in the aggregate 22% of the total voting power of all our common stock and the Class B Common Stock possess in the aggregate the remaining 78% of the total voting power. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,800,000 shares, at which time the Class A Common Stock aggregate voting power will change to 40% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 60%. If the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,400,000 shares, the Class A Common Stock aggregate voting power will change to a fixed 53% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 47%. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 500,000 shares, at which time the fixed voting percentages will be eliminated. These changes in the relative voting power represented by each class of our common stock are based only on the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding, thus issuances of Class A Common Stock will have no effect on these provisions. Therefore, as additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued, it is likely that the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power would widen. While the amendment creating this capital structure was approved by our shareholders, the fixed voting percentage provisions are somewhat unique. If the market does not sufficiently accept this structure, the trading price and market for our Class A Common Stock would be adversely affected. We have enacted a shareholder rights plan that may have anti-takeover effects and could result in substantial dilution to holders of Class A Common Stock. We have in place a shareholder rights plan similar to that adopted by other public companies under which we issued preferred stock purchase rights to holders of our Class B Common Stock. As a result of the plan, each share of our Class B Common Stock carries with it one preferred stock purchase right. Each purchase right, which will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events, including the acquisition of shares representing 20% or more of the voting power of our common stock (other than by our existing control shareholders and their affiliates) or the Company being acquired in a merger or other business combination or through the sale of assets under hostile circumstances, will generally entitle the registered holder to purchase either Class B Common Stock or shares in the acquiring entity at half the market price of such shares. The purchase rights are intended to cause substantial dilution to a person or group who attempts to acquire us on terms that our board of directors has not approved. However, since shares of Class A Common Stock do not carry these purchase rights, the exercise of these purchase rights would result in substantial dilution to holders of Class A Common Stock as well. The existence of the purchase rights would make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a controlling position in our common stock. The rights plan was adopted on January 10, 1997 and the purchase rights will expire on January 10, 2007. 33 Table of Contents Financial Services Segment Our Financial Services segment consists of BankAtlantic Bancorp, which is consolidated with BFC Financial Corporation. The only assets available to BFC Financial Corporation from BankAtlantic Bancorp are dividends when and if declared and paid by BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate public company and its management prepared the following Item 1A. Risk Factors regarding BankAtlantic Bancorp which was included in BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us” , “our” or “Parent Company” in the following discussion under the caption “Financial Services” are references to BankAtlantic Bancorp and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation. “BankAtlantic BankAtlantic’s primary risk factors are: changes in interest rates, success of BankAtlantic’s Florida Most Convenient Bank initiatives, loan portfolio credit risk, inadequate allowance for loan loss reserves and regulatory compliance. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income and the cost of purchasing residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, we cannot provide assurances that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. Loan prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans, and if loans are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage portfolio in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. 34 Table of Contents In a rising interest rate environment loan prepayments generally decline resulting in loan yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic has developed a computer model using standard industry software to quantify its interest rate risk, referred to as an “ALCO model” in support of its Asset/Liability Committee. This model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. BankAtlantic has disclosed issues regarding its compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, anti-money laundering laws and the Bank Secrecy Act which may subject it to fines and regulatory actions, including restrictions on its ability to pay dividends. As previously disclosed BankAtlantic has identified deficiencies in its compliance with the USA PATRIOT Act, anti-money laundering laws and the Bank Secrecy Act (“AML-BSA”) and has been cooperating with regulators and other federal agencies concerning these deficiencies. The deficiencies may subject BankAtlantic to additional fines and regulatory actions, including restrictions on its ability to pay dividends. BankAtlantic has taken steps to correct identified deficiencies and has incurred substantial costs to improve its compliance systems and procedures, including costs associated with engaging attorneys and compliance consultants, acquiring new software and hiring additional compliance staff. Following the review and recommendations of our compliance consultants, BankAtlantic internally created a separate AML-BSA department which resulted in a staff increase of approximately 30 employees and significant improvements to our systems, processes, and training programs were put in place. The on-going financial impact of those changes and additions was to increase recurring expenses by approximately $3.5 million annually. Notwithstanding that we believe we are currently in compliance with applicable laws, many financial institutions have been the subject of proceedings based on past AML-BSA deficiencies which have resulted in substantial fines and penalties and have been required to enter into cease and desist orders with their primary regulators. Under these circumstances, we determined during the 2005 fourth quarter that it was appropriate to establish a $10 million reserve with respect to these matters, and we anticipate that BankAtlantic may be required to enter into a supervisory agreement with respect to the maintenance of satisfactory compliance status. BankAtlantic’s ability to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to proceed with certain aspects of its business plan, including its branch expansion and other acquisition plans, and its ability to pay dividends, could be adversely affected by a cease and desist order or any other actions taken by regulators or other federal agencies. There is no assurance that the $10 million reserve will be sufficient to cover the fines, penalties or additional expenses associated with these compliance matters, and additional fines, penalties or expenses will negatively impact our results. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative has created increased operating expenses, which may have an adverse impact on our earnings. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative and its associated expanded operations have required it to provide additional management resources, hire additional personnel, increase occupancy and marketing expenditures and take steps to enhance and expand its operational and management information systems. Employee compensation, occupancy and advertising expenses have significantly increased since the inception, during 2002, of the initiative from $78.9 million during 2001 to $141.9 million during 2004 and $182.0 million during 2005. Additionally, BankAtlantic has instituted a program to renovate the interior of all of its existing branches and has committed to a program to expand its branch network. As a result of these growth initiatives, BankAtlantic has incurred and will continue to incur increased operating expenses. In the event that the “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative does not produce the results anticipated, BankAtlantic’s increased operating expenses will not be adequately offset by the benefits of the initiative and our earnings will be adversely impacted. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio subjects it to high levels of credit risk. BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, BankAtlantic establishes policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. 35 Table of Contents BankAtlantic attempts to manage credit exposure to individual borrowers and counter-parties on an aggregate basis including loans, securities, letters of credit, derivatives and unfunded commitments. Credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party. Credit limits are subject to varying levels of approval by senior line and credit risk managers. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with other lenders to limit its credit risk. The majority of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio consists of loans secured by real estate. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.0 billion of loans secured by residential real estate and $2.4 billion of commercial real estate, construction and development loans at December 31, 2005. At December 31, 2005, BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate, construction and development loans, which are concentrated mainly in South Florida, represented approximately 45.2% of its loan portfolio. Accordingly, declines in real estate values, particularly in South Florida, could have a material adverse impact on the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and on its results. Real estate values are affected by various factors, including changes in general and/or regional economic conditions, governmental rules and policies and natural disasters such as hurricanes. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes large lending relationships, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $30 million. These relationships represented an aggregate outstanding balance of $633 million as of December 31, 2005. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic may be impacted by a concentration in interest-only residential loans. Approximately 38% of our residential loan portfolio consists of interest-only loans. These loans have reduced initial loan payments with the potential for monthly loan payments to increase significantly in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic evaluates the collectibility of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. BankAtlantic may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. In addition, BankAtlantic’s regulators may require it to increase or decrease its allowance for loan losses even if BankAtlantic thinks such change is unjustified. 36 Table of Contents BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to service its debt and pay dividends depends on dividends from BankAtlantic, which are subject to regulatory limits. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a holding company and it depends upon dividends from BankAtlantic for a significant portion of its cash flow. BankAtlantic Bancorp uses dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its capital stock. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to service its debt and pay dividends is further subject to restrictions under its indentures and loan covenants. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to the regulatory authority of the OTS and the FDIC. BankAtlantic’s ability to make capital distributions is subject to regulatory limitations. Generally, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. BankAtlantic’s ability to make such distributions depends on maintaining eligibility for “expedited treatment.” BankAtlantic currently qualifies for expedited treatment, but there can be no assurance that it will maintain its current status. Additionally, although no prior OTS approval may be necessary, BankAtlantic is required to give the OTS thirty (30) days notice before making any capital distribution to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The OTS may object to any capital distribution if it believes the distribution will be unsafe and unsound. Additional capital distributions above the limit for an expedited treatment institution are possible but require the prior approval of the OTS. The OTS is not likely to approve any distribution that would cause BankAtlantic to fail to meet is capital requirements on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the proposed distribution. The FDIC has backup authority to take enforcement action if it believes that a capital distribution by BankAtlantic constitutes an unsafe or unsound action or practice, even if the OTS has cleared the distribution. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors” – “BankAtlantic has disclosed issues regarding its compliance with the USA Patriot Act, anti-money laundering laws and the Bank Secrecy Act which may subject it to fines and regulatory actions, including restrictions on its ability to pay dividends.” At December 31, 2005, BankAtlantic had approximately $263.3 million of indebtedness outstanding at the holding company level with maturities in 2032 and 2033. The aggregate annual interest expense on this indebtedness is approximately $19.3 million. During 2005, BankAtlantic Bancorp received $20 million of dividends from BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition and results would be adversely affected if the amounts needed to satisfy its debt obligations, including any additional indebtedness incurred in the future, exceeded the amount of dividends it receives from its subsidiaries. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans are concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, and any economic downturn in Florida or adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The occurrence of an economic downturn in Florida, adverse changes in laws or regulations in Florida or natural disasters could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, the level of deposits our customers maintain with BankAtlantic, the success of BankAtlantic’s customers’ business activities, and the ability of BankAtlantic to expand its business. Regulatory Compliance. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. A risk of doing business in the banking industry is that a failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments, depending upon the type of violation and various other factors. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp see “Regulations and Supervision”. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. 37 Table of Contents Ryan Beck We engage in the securities business through Ryan Beck, which subjects us to the risks of its business. The securities business is, by its nature, subject to various risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, including the risk of losses resulting from the underwriting or ownership of securities, customer fraud, employee errors and misconduct, failures in connection with the processing of securities transactions and litigation. Ryan Beck’s business and its profitability are affected by many factors including: • the volatility and price levels of the securities markets, • the volume, size and timing of securities transactions, • the demand for investment banking services, • the level and volatility of interest rates, • the availability of credit, • legislation affecting the business and financial communities, • the economy in general, • the volatility of equity and debt securities held in inventory, and • attraction and retention of key personnel. Markets characterized by low trading volumes and depressed prices generally result in reduced commissions and investment banking revenues as well as losses from declines in the market value of securities positions. Moreover, Ryan Beck is likely to be adversely affected by negative economic developments in the mid-Atlantic region or the financial services industry in general. Volatility in either the stock or fixed-income markets could have an adverse impact on Ryan Beck’s operations. A major portion of Ryan Beck’s assets and liabilities are securities owned or securities sold but not yet purchased. Securities owned and securities sold but not yet purchased are associated with trading activities conducted both as principal and as agent on behalf of individual and institutional investor clients of Ryan Beck and are accounted for at fair value in our financial statements. The fair value of these trading positions is generally based on listed market prices. If listed market prices are not available or if liquidating the positions would reasonably be expected to impact market prices, fair value is determined based on other relevant factors, including dealer price quotations, price quotations for similar instruments traded in different markets or management’s estimates of amounts to be realized on settlement. As a consequence, volatility in either the stock or fixed-income markets could result in adverse changes in our financial results. Trading transactions as principal involve making markets in securities, which are held in inventory to facilitate sales to and purchases from customers. As a result of this activity, Ryan Beck may be required to hold securities during declining markets. Parent Company We are controlled by BFC Corporation and its control position may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2005, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 8,329,236 shares, or approximately 15.0%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 54.9% of the Company’s total voting power. Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. BFC is in a position to control the Company and elect the Company’s Board of Directors. As a consequence, BFC has the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. 38 Table of Contents Our activities and our subsidiaries’ activities are subject to a wide range of bank regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to us; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit our activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • impose capital requirements on us. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company we are not subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may in the future impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect our operations including our ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision – Holding Company.” Our portfolio of equity securities subjects us to equity pricing risks. We maintain a portfolio of publicly traded and privately held equity securities that subject us to equity pricing risks arising in connection with changes in the relative values due to changing market and economic conditions. Volatility or a decline in the financial markets can negatively impact our net income as a result of devaluation of these investments. At December 31, 2005 we had equity securities with a book value of approximately $82.1 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” The repayment of our subordinated debentures is dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us.” 39 Table of Contents Homebuilding & Real Estate Development Segment Our Homebuilding & Real Estate Development segment consists of Levitt Corporation, which is consolidated with BFC Financial Corporation. The only assets available to BFC Financial Corporation are dividends when and if declared and paid by Levitt. Levitt is a separate public company and its management prepared the following Item 1A. Risk Factors regarding Levitt which was included in Levitt’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us”, “our” or “Parent Company” in the following discussion under the caption “Homebuilding & Real Estate Development” are references to Levitt and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation. “RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND THE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS GENERALLY We engage in real estate activities which are speculative and involve a high degree of risk The real estate industry is highly cyclical by nature and future market conditions are uncertain. Factors which adversely affect the real estate and homebuilding industries, many of which are beyond our control, include: • the availability and cost of financing, • unfavorable interest rates and increases in inflation, • overbuilding or decreases in demand, • changes in the general availability of land and competition for available land, • construction defects and warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, including mold related property damage and bodily injury claims and homeowner and homeowners’ association lawsuits, • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, • cost overruns, inclement weather, and labor and material shortages, • the impact of present or future environmental legislation, zoning laws and other regulations, • availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property, and • increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees. We continue to experience shortages of labor and supplies resulting mainly from circumstances beyond our control, and there could be delays and increased costs in developing our projects, which may adversely affect our operating results Our ability to develop our projects may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: • shortages or increases in prices of construction materials, • natural disasters in the areas in which we operate, • work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers, • lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services, and • our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our projects or individual homes. We compete with other real estate developers, both regionally and nationally, for labor as well as raw materials, and the competition for materials has recently become global. Continued strength in the homebuilding industry and the commercial and condominium construction markets, as well as increases in fuel and commodity prices have resulted in significantly higher prices of most building materials, including lumber, drywall, steel, concrete, roofing materials, pipe and asphalt. We expect certain building materials to become more scarce and possibly subject to supply allocations in response to the rebuilding activities in the Gulf States and Florida following Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Demand in China for cement combined with supply bottlenecks have also contributed to regional shortages in cement. In addition, local materials suppliers periodically limit the allocation of their products to their customers, which slows our production process and forces us to obtain those materials from other suppliers, typically at higher prices. Although supplies of cement block in the Florida market have remained tight, we are not currently subject to allocations of deliveries in our Florida developments. 40 Table of Contents Historically, we have managed our costs, in part, by entering into short-term, fixed-price materials contracts with selected subcontractors and material suppliers. We may be unable to achieve cost containment in the future by using fixed-price contracts. Without corresponding increases in the sales prices of our real estate inventories (both land and finished homes), increasing materials costs associated with land development and home building could negatively affect our margins. We may not be able to recover these increased costs by raising our home prices because, typically, the price for each home is set in a home sale contract with the customer months prior to delivery. If we are unable to increase our prices for new homes to offset these increased costs, our operating results could be adversely affected. We have experienced significant growth in our homebuilding operations that may not be maintained and which may continue to cause production challenges in some of our homebuilding communities We experienced dramatic growth through 2004 with many of our communities selling out faster than originally anticipated. Due in large part to the stronger than expected sales of new homes during these prior periods, we experienced production challenges in some of our homebuilding communities that have led to extended delivery cycles beyond our 12-month target. Since the price of each home is generally set at the time of contract, any delays in delivery of the homes will affect the Company’s margins in a period of rising construction costs, such as that currently being experienced. In addition, the rapid sales in 2003 and the first half of 2004 depleted our inventory of houses available for sale. While from time to time we have experienced a decline in saleable inventory, we continue to expand our lot inventory in Florida, Georgia, South Carolina and Tennessee to replenish our homes available for sale. If we are not able to open new communities in a timely fashion and if we are unable to implement a successful strategy to revise our production and operational practices, our saleable inventory will remain below historical levels, our delivery cycles may extend beyond our 12-month target and our results of operations will be adversely impacted. Natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our real estate operations We currently develop and sell a significant portion of our properties in Florida. The Florida markets in which we operate are subject to the risks of natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. These natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing the incurrence of uninsured losses, delays in construction, and shortages and increased costs of labor and building materials. In the months of August, September and October 2005, three hurricanes made landfall in the State of Florida—Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. Our operations did not suffer material disruption as a result of the 2005 hurricane season, but future allocations or supply shortages as a result of rebuilding activities from these storms and storms in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi could adversely impact our operations or restrict our ability to expand in certain markets. In addition, during the 2004 hurricane season, five named storms made landfall in the State causing property damage in several of our communities; however, our losses were primarily related to landscaping and claims based on water intrusion associated with the hurricanes, and we have attempted to address those issues. In May 2005, a purported class action was brought on behalf of owners of homes in a particular Central Florida Levitt and Sons’ subdivision in connection with damage suffered during certain of the hurricanes in 2004 as a result of alleged construction defects. In addition to property damage, hurricanes may cause disruptions to our business operations. New home buyers cannot obtain insurance until after named storms have passed, creating delays in new home deliveries. Approaching storms require that sales, development and construction operations be suspended in favor of storm preparation activities such as securing construction materials and equipment. After a storm has passed, construction-related resources such as sub-contracted labor and building materials are likely to be redeployed to hurricane recovery efforts around the State. Governmental permitting and inspection activities may similarly be focused primarily on returning displaced residents to homes damaged by the storms, rather than on new construction activity. Depending on the severity of the damage caused by the storms, disruptions such as these could last for several months. Because our business depends on the acquisition of new land, the unavailability of land could reduce our revenues or negatively impact our results of operations Our operations and revenues are highly dependent on our ability to acquire land for development at reasonable prices. We compete for available land with other homebuilders or developers that may possess significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. This competition may ultimately reduce the amount of land available as well as increase the bargaining position of property owners seeking to sell. Changes in the general availability of land, competition for available land, availability of financing to acquire land, zoning regulations that limit density and other market conditions may hurt our ability to obtain land for new communities. If land appropriate for development becomes less available, the cost of land could increase, and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 41 Table of Contents Because real estate investments are illiquid, a decline in the real estate market or in the economy in general could adversely impact our business Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Companies that invest in real estate have a limited ability to vary their portfolio of real estate investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, the market value of any or all of our properties or investments may decrease in the future. Moreover, we may not be able to timely dispose of an investment when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary, and any such dispositions may not provide proceeds in excess of the amount of our investment in the property or even in excess of the amount of any indebtedness incurred to acquire the property. As part of our strategy for future growth, we significantly increased our land inventory during 2005, with our inventory of real estate increasing from $413.5 million at December 31, 2004 to $611.3 million at December 31, 2005. This substantial increase in our land holdings subjects us to a greater risk from declines in real estate values in our markets. Declines in real estate values or in the economy generally could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our ability to successfully develop communities could affect our financial condition It may take several years for a community development to achieve positive cash flow. Before a community development generates any revenues, material expenditures are required to acquire land, to obtain development approvals and to construct significant portions of project infrastructure, amenities, model homes and sales facilities. Further, we anticipate that a larger percentage of land in our master-planned communities may be used in the future for our homebuilding operations and our own commercial development. As a result, a portion of the real estate inventory held by Core Communities will in the future generally be held longer than our prior practice and revenue recognition and cash proceeds from land sales by Core Communities will be deferred for a longer period of time than in the past. If we are unable to develop and market our communities successfully and to generate positive cash flows from these operations in a timely manner, it will have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our working capital requirements. Our ability to sell lots and homes, and, accordingly, our operating results, will be affected by the availability of financing to potential purchasers Most purchasers of real estate finance their acquisitions through third-party mortgage financing. Real estate demand is generally adversely affected by: • increases in interest rates, • decreases in the availability of mortgage financing, • increasing housing costs, • unemployment, and • changes in federally sponsored financing programs. Increases in interest rates or decreases in the availability of mortgage financing could depress the market for new homes because of the increased monthly mortgage costs or the unavailability of financing to potential homebuyers. Even if potential customers do not need financing, increases in interest rates and decreased mortgage availability could make it harder for them to sell their homes. If demand for housing declines, land may remain in our inventory longer and our corresponding borrowing costs would increase. This could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly or negatively impact sales, which could adversely affect our business Our homebuilding and commercial development business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the homebuilding and commercial real estate industries and can be costly. Among the claims for which developers and builders have financial exposure are mold-related property damage and bodily injury claims. Damages awarded under these suits may include the costs of remediation, loss of property and health-related bodily injury. In response to increased litigation, insurance underwriters have attempted to limit their risk by excluding coverage for certain claims associated with pollution and product and workmanship defects. As a consequence, some or all of the financial risk associated with mold claims may be the sole obligation of the insured party. As a developer and a homebuilder, we may be at risk of loss for mold-related property and bodily injury claims in amounts that exceed available limits on our comprehensive general liability policies. 42 Table of Contents In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, if applicable, are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is also currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our operating results. Further, as a community developer, we may be expected by community residents from time to time to resolve any real or perceived issues or disputes that may arise in connection with the operation or development of our communities. Any efforts made by us in resolving these issues or disputes may not satisfy the affected residents and any subsequent action by these residents could negatively impact sales and results of operations. In addition, we could be required to make material expenditures related to the settlement of such issues or disputes or to modify our community development plans. We are subject to governmental regulations that may limit our operations, increase our expenses or subject us to liability We are subject to laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies concerning, among other things: • environmental matters, including the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, • wetland preservation, • health and safety, • zoning, land use and other entitlements, • building design, and • density levels. In developing a project and building homes or apartments or commercial properties, we may be required to obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities regulating matters such as: • installation of utility services such as gas, electric, water and waste disposal, • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks and schools, • permitted land uses, and • the construction design, methods and materials used. These laws or regulations could, among other things: • establish building moratoriums, • limit the number of homes, apartments or commercial properties that may be built, • change building codes and construction requirements affecting property under construction, • increase the cost of development and construction, and • delay development and construction. We may also at times not be in compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we are not in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to penalties or we may be forced to incur significant expenses to cure any noncompliance. In addition, some of our land and some of the land that we may acquire have not yet received planning approvals or entitlements necessary for planned or future development. Failure to obtain entitlements necessary for further development of this land on a timely basis or to the extent desired may adversely affect our future results and prospects. Several governmental authorities have also imposed impact fees as a means of defraying the cost of providing governmental services to developing areas, and many of these fees have increased significantly during recent years. Building moratoriums and changes in governmental regulations may subject us to delays or increased costs of construction or prohibit development of our properties We may be subject to delays or may be precluded from developing in certain communities because of building moratoriums or changes in statutes or rules that could be imposed in the future. The State of Florida and various counties have in the past and may in the future continue to declare moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and impose restrictions in areas where the infrastructure, such as roads, schools, parks, water and sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities, does not reach minimum standards. Additionally, certain counties in Florida, including counties where we are developing projects, have enacted more stringent building codes which have resulted in increased costs of construction. 43 Table of Contents As a consequence, we may incur significant expenses in connection with complying with new regulatory requirements that we may not be able to pass on to buyers. We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure promptly to remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property, to use the property for our intended purpose, or to borrow using the property as collateral. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business Insurance and surety companies may take actions that could negatively affect our business, including increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral or covenants on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPANY Our indebtedness and leverage could adversely affect our financial condition, restrict our ability to operate and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations We have a significant amount of debt. At December 31, 2005, our consolidated debt was approximately $408.0 million. The amount of our debt could: • limit our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements, • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payment of or on our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash flow for other purposes, • impact our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, the changes in our business, • place us at a competitive disadvantage if we have more debt than our competitors, and • make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business or in general economic conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service and other obligations, to refinance our indebtedness or to fund planned capital expenditures, will depend upon our future performance. We are engaged in businesses that are substantially affected by changes in economic cycles. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of equity securities, the refinancing of debt, or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect our ability to meet our debt service obligations, because borrowings under a significant portion of our debt instruments bear interest at floating rates. Our anticipated debt payment obligations for the 12 months beginning December 31, 2005 total $59.2 million. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our existing credit facilities or any other financing sources in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Our outstanding debt instruments and bank credit facilities impose restrictions on our operations and activities. The most significant restrictions relate to debt incurrence, lien incurrence, sales of assets and cash distributions by us and require us to comply with certain financial covenants. If we fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the holders of the applicable debt could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. In addition, some of our debt instruments contain cross-default provisions, which could cause a default in a number of debt instruments if we default on only one debt instrument. 44 Table of Contents We have rapidly increased our operating expenses in response to our rapid growth and our results of operations may be adversely affected if there is a slowdown in sales generally or we are unable to increase revenues and effectively manage growth. In response to the significant growth in sales of new homes and to support and manage our expanding homebuilding operations, during 2005 we hired additional personnel, invested in technology and took other steps to enhance our operational and management information infrastructure. As a result, selling, general and administrative expenses increased 23.4% from $71.0 million in 2004 to $87.6 million in 2005. Included in selling, general and administrative expenses are an increase in employee compensation and benefits of 20.4% from $35.3 million in 2004 to $42.5 million in 2005. Our full-time employees have increased from 527 at December 31, 2004 to 640 at December 31, 2005. Rising expenses have had an adverse effect on our earnings, and if we are not able to efficiently and profitably manage our growth, then these added expenses may have an adverse effect on our future earnings. Our future growth requires additional capital, which may not be available The real estate development industry is capital intensive and requires significant expenditures for land purchases, land development and construction. We intend to pursue a strategy of continued investment in additional real estate projects. We anticipate that we will need to obtain additional financing as we expand our operations. These funds may be obtained through public or private debt or equity financings, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances. We may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, certain of our bank financing agreements contain provisions that limit the type and amount of debt we may incur in the future without our lenders’ consent. In addition, the availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, may be greatly reduced, and lenders may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. If we do not have access to additional capital, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our acquisition plans or growth strategies or reduce capital expenditures and the size of our operations. Our results may vary We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in operating results on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include: • the cyclical nature of the real estate and construction industries, • prevailing interest rates and the availability of mortgage financing, • the uncertain timing of closings, • weather and the cost and availability of materials and labor, • competitive variables, and • the timing of receipt of regulatory and other governmental approvals for construction of projects. The volume of sales contracts and closings typically varies from quarter to quarter depending on the stages of development of our projects. In the early stages of a project’s development (two to three years depending on the project), we incur significant start-up costs associated with, among other things, project design, land acquisition and development, construction and marketing expenses. Since revenues from sales of properties are generally recognized only upon the transfer of title at the closing of a sale, no revenue is recognized during the early stages of a project unless land parcels or residential homesites are sold to other developers. Our costs and expenses were approximately $500.6 million and $484.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Periodic sales of properties and distributions from our joint venture investments may be insufficient to fund operating expenses. Further, if sales and other revenues are not adequate to cover costs and expenses, we will be required to seek a source of additional operating funds. Accordingly, our financial results will vary from community to community and from time to time. Our success depends on key management, the loss of which could disrupt our business operations Our future success depends largely upon the continued efforts and abilities of key management employees, including John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Seth M. Wise, our President, George P. Scanlon, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Paul J. Hegener, President of Core Communities and Elliott Wiener, President of Levitt and Sons. In addition, our success will depend on our ongoing ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for such personnel is intense in the real estate industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel. The loss 45 Table of Contents of the services of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and expect to continue to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing business, or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in assimilating acquired management and operations, • risks associated with achieving profitability, • the incurrence of significant due diligence expenses relating to acquisitions that are not completed, • unforeseen expenses, • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, • the potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations, and • risks associated with transferred assets and liabilities. We may not be able to acquire or profitably manage additional businesses, or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses, properties or personnel into our business, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may incur debt or contingent liabilities in connection with future acquisitions, which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our controlling shareholders have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in limited circumstances As of December 31, 2005, BFC Financial Corporation owned 1,219,031 shares of our Class B common stock, which represented all of our issued and outstanding Class B common stock, and 2,074,240 shares, or approximately 11% of our issued and outstanding Class A common stock. In the aggregate these shares represent approximately 53% of our total voting power and approximately 16.6% of our total equity. Since the Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters, BFC Financial Corporation is in a position to control our company and elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own approximately 35.2% and 17.7% of the shares of BFC Financial Corporation, respectively. As a consequence, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote of Levitt Corporation, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. BFC Financial Corporation’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR OWNERSHIP STAKE IN BLUEGREEN CORPORATION We own approximately 31% of the outstanding common stock of Bluegreen Corporation, a publicly-traded corporation whose common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “BXG”. Although traded on the New York Stock Exchange, our shares may be deemed restricted stock, which would limit our ability to liquidate our investment if we chose to do so. While we have made a significant investment in Bluegreen Corporation, we do not expect to receive any dividends from the company for the foreseeable future. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our earnings from our investment in Bluegreen were $12.7 million and $13.1 million, respectively, representing approximately 14.4% and 14.0% of our pre-tax earnings for those periods, respectively. At December 31, 2005, the book value of our investment in Bluegreen was $95.8 million. Accordingly, a significant portion of our earnings and book value are dependent upon Bluegreen’s ability to continue to generate earnings and maintain its market value. Further, declines in the market value of Bluegreen’s shares or other events that could impair the value of our holdings would have an adverse impact on the value of our investment. We refer you to the public reports filed by Bluegreen with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 46 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 