Item 1A. Risk Factors, (continued) as a result of its smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread costs across broader markets. There can be no assurance that the Corporation will be able to compete effectively in its markets. Furthermore, developments increasing the nature or level of competition could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Changes in government regulation or monetary policy could adversely affect the Corporation. The Corporation and the banking industry are subject to extensive regulation and supervision under federal and state laws and regulations. The restrictions imposed by such laws and regulations limit the manner in which the Corporation conducts its banking business, undertakes new investments and activities and obtains financing. These regulations are designed primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and consumers and not to benefit holders of the Corporation's securities. Financial institution regulation has been the subject of significant legislation in recent years and may be the subject of further significant legislation in the future, none of which is in the control of the Corporation. Significant new laws or changes in, or repeals of, existing laws could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Further, federal monetary policy, particularly as implemented through the Federal Reserve System, significantly affects credit conditions for the Corporation, and any unfavorable change in these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See Part I, Item 1, "Supervision and Regulation." Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Corporation does not have any written comments made by the Securities Exchange Commission staff in connection with a review of any of its reports. -28- 