D. RISK FACTORS The following important factors, together with others that appear with the forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Scailex in this Annual Report, or in Scailex’s other SEC filings and public statements, could affect our actual results and could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business · We have sold our principal operating businesses and currently conduct only limited business activities. We sold the business of Scitex Digital Printing Inc., or SDP, one of our two principal operating subsidiaries, to Eastman Kodak Company, or Kodak, in January 2004. In November 2005, Scailex Vision, our remaining principal operating subsidiary, sold its business to Hewlett-Packard Company, or Hewlett-Packard. In August, 2006, we decreased our holdings in Jemtex from approximately 75% to approximately 15% (on a fully diluted basis). 9 In the next few days, and following the recent approval by our board of directors and shareholders, we expect to sell 100% of the share capital of our wholly owned subsidiary, PCH, to IPE, our controlling shareholder, for the total sum of approximately NIS 1.14 billion (approximately $338 million). This transaction is subject to the purchase by Suny Electronics Ltd. from IPE of all of the Scailex shares held by IPE. Following these concurrent transactions, we would no longer have any interest in ORL. See “Item 4A. History and Development of the Company,” “Item 4B - Business Overview,” “Item 10C - Material Contracts - The PCH Sale Agreement, dated April 10, 2008” and “Item 10C - Material Contracts - Reorganization Contract between the Company and Senior Management of Jemtex”. As of the date of this Annual Report, we hold substantially all of our assets in cash and cash equivalents and ORL shares. After completing the abovementioned sale of PCH, our plan of operation will be to explore and consider strategic investments and business opportunities. Other than activities relating to attempting to locate such opportunities and activities relating to our holdings, we do not currently conduct any material operations. In the event that ownership in Scailex changes as a result of the abovementioned share transaction between IPE, our current controlling shareholder, and Suny Electronics Ltd., we expect that five of our directors will be asked to resign and new directors will be appointed. There is uncertainty as to how we will conduct our operations and the investments that we will make in the event such transaction occurs. · We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities. While we are actively exploring strategic transactions and opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities. We may invest in entities having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics, such as having limited or no potential for immediate earnings that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short term. In the event that we make new investments, a significant factor in our success will be the performance of target entities and their management, as well as numerous other factors beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to invest on terms favorable to us, or at all. · We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. We believe that we are not subject to regulation or registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, because we are incorporated outside of the United States and are not publicly offering and do not propose to publicly offer our securities in the United States. We also do not promote our securities in the United States and our ordinary shares were delisted from Nasdaq. The Investment Company Act limits our ability to raise capital in the United States. In addition, following the sale of the businesses of SDP and Scailex Vision and the investment of the cash proceeds of such transactions, we believe we are not engaged in an “investment company” business because we are actively engaged in exploring and considering strategic investments and business opportunities and hold substantially all of our assets in cash and cash equivalents. If we fail to make strategic, controlling investments, the likelihood of being deemed to be engaged in an investment company business would increase over time. If we were to engage in a public offering of our securities in the United States or were deemed to promote our securities in the United States and also to be engaged in an investment company business, we may be required to seek exemptive or other relief from the SEC so as not to be regulated under the Investment Company Act. No assurance can be made that we would obtain such exemptive or other relief from the SEC, if and when we seek the same. As a result, we may be required to take certain actions with respect to the investment of our assets or the distribution of cash to our shareholders in order to avoid being deemed an investment company, which actions may not be as favorable to us as if we were not potentially subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act. 10 If we were deemed to be an investment company and engaged in a public offering of our securities or promoting our securities in the United States, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act, and a violation of that act could subject us to material adverse consequences. · We hold substantially all of our assets in cash and financial instrument, and are exposed to decreases in the value of our financial investments. As of December 31, 2007, we held, on a consolidated basis, approximately $437.4 million in cash and financial instruments, which represented substantially all of our assets. This amount included $8.9 million which was presented as non current assets, $6.6 million of which was allocated to discontinued operations, and $307.4 million of ORL shares, which was presented as available-for-sale assets. Because our shares in ORL are held in shekels, and our operational currency is the U.S. Dollar, we are subject to fluctuations in the dollar-shekel exchange rates and to fluctuations in the share price of ORL. This could adversely affect our financial condition. During the next few days and following the recent approval by our board of directors and shareholders, we expect to sell 100% of the share capital of our wholly owned subsidiary, PCH, to IPE, our controlling shareholder, for the total sum of approximately NIS 1.14 billion (approximately $338 million). This transaction is subject to and would occur concurrently with the purchase by Suny Electronics Ltd. from IPE of all of the Scailex shares held by IPE. Following these transactions, we would no longer have any interest in ORL. In the event of a change in our ownership resulting from the abovementioned agreement between Suny and IPE, our operating currency may change from dollars to shekels, and we cannot predict what affect the fluctuation of the shekel rates would have on our operations and cash flow. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2007, see Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk–Presentation of Exchange Rate and Interest Rate Risk.” · We are undergoing, and may in the future undergo, tax audits and may have to make material payments to tax authorities at the conclusion of these audits. As a result of tax audits or assessments in Israel or abroad related to the Company or to our subsidiaries which sold their operations, we may be required to pay additional taxes, as a result of which our future results may be adversely affected. For more information about these audits and other tax assessments, please see under “Item 5B. – Liquidity & Capital Resources – Tax Audits.” Risks Related to Operations in Israel · Political, economic and military instability in Israel or the Middle East may adversely affect our results of operations. Our corporate headquarters are located in Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Further, in 2006, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, would likely negatively affect business conditions and harm our business. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians. 11 These political, economic and military conditions might deter potential targets from effecting a business combination with an Israeli company. In addition, the operations and financial results of the remaining companies in which we have holdings could be adversely affected if political, economic or military events curtailed or interrupted trade between Israel and its present trading partners or if major hostilities involving Israel should occur in the Middle East. In addition, some of our directors and officers are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. All reservists are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. We cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce and business if conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. · A litigant may have difficulty enforcing U.S. judgments against us, our officers and directors, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates or asserting U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and affiliates, and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, and any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to specified time limitations, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final executory judgment in a civil matter, provided that: · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was obtained after due process before a court of competent jurisdiction according to the rules of private international law prevailing in Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraudulent means and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; and · the U.S. court is not prohibited from enforcing judgments of Israeli courts. · Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Scailex. The Israeli Companies Law generally requires that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if shares representing a majority of the voting power present at the shareholders meeting, and which are not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager), have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may generally not be completed unless at least (1) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (2) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each of the parties to the merger. Also, in certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. 12 Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or make more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which may adversely affect our ability to engage in a business combination and could depress our share price. Risks Related to the Market for Our Ordinary Shares · If there is no active trading market for our ordinary shares, our investors may be unable to sell their shares. In October 2006, the Company’s shares were de-listed from NASDAQ’s Global Market because the Company was determined by Nasdaq to be a public shell lacking any business operations, pursuant to Marketplace Rule 4300. As of the date of this Annual Report, the Company’s shares are traded on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”) in the United States. We cannot guarantee there will be an active trading market for our ordinary shares in the United States. We also cannot provide our investors with any assurance that our ordinary shares will continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or, if quoted, that there will be an active public market for our shares. Further, the OTCBB is not a listing service or exchange, but is instead a dealer quotation service for subscribing members. If our ordinary shares are not quoted on the OTCBB or if there is no public market for our ordinary shares, investors may not be able to resell the shares of our ordinary shares that they have purchased and may lose all of their investment, or they may be required to sell their shares on TASE, where liquidity of the shares also cannot be guaranteed. · We expect to qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in 2007, as it was in 2006. Unless U.S. holders of our shares make certain elections under U.S. federal income tax rules and regulations, they may be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, a U.S. holder who disposes of, or is deemed to dispose of, our shares at a gain, or who receives, or is deemed to receive, certain distributions with respect to our shares, generally will be required to treat such gain or distributions as ordinary income earned ratably over the holder’s holding period and will be subject to a special tax and interest charge on amounts treated as earned during periods during which we are classified as a PFIC. Certain elections may be used to reduce or eliminate the adverse impact of the PFIC rules for holders of our shares (“QEF elections” and “mark-to-market” elections), but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income in excess of amounts actually distributed to the holder. In addition, because we are a PFIC, our distributions will not qualify for the reduced rate of U.S. federal income tax that applies to qualified dividends paid to non-corporate U.S. taxpayers. The PFIC rules are extremely complex; prospective U.S. investors are urged to consult independent tax advisers regarding the potential consequences to them of our classification as a PFIC. See Item 10.E “Taxation – Certain Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” · Volatility of our share price could adversely affect us and our shareholders. The market price for our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, such as: · market conditions or trends; · political, economic and other developments in the State of Israel and world-wide; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results and/or assets; · material corporate transactions; and · entry into strategic partnerships or joint ventures by us. 13 In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Israeli companies in particular, has been highly volatile in the past few years. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may materially adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our performance. Shareholders may not be able to sell their ordinary shares following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to such volatility, and we may not be able to raise capital through an offering of securities. · A single shareholder may be able to control us. In July 2006, Israel Petrochemicals Enterprise Ltd. (“IPE”) (through its wholly owned subsidiary Petrochemical Holdings Ltd.) purchased an aggregate of approximately 49.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares from Clal Industries and Investments Ltd. (“Clal”) and Discount Investment Corporation Ltd. (“Discount”). As of June 26, 2008, IPE held 50.06% of the Company’s outstanding ordinary shares. As of June 26, 2008, IPE was held 60.91% by Modgal Industries (99) Ltd., 12.29% by ORL, and 6.67% by Keter Plastic, and Modgal Industries (99) Ltd. was held 50.14% by Modgal Ltd., 23.03% by European Holdings International Ltd., and 26.83% by Adler BV. (held by Leonid N. Nevzlin (71%), who is the main beneficiary of Menatap Ltd., a foreign company). As of June 26, 2008, Modgal Ltd. was held by 50% by Gima Investments Ltd. (held 37.5% each by Jacob Gottenstein and Alex Passal and 12.5% by each of Arie Silverberg and Micha Lazar), 47% by I.D. Federman Holdings Ltd. (held 49% by Adi Federman, 49% by Shelly Federman and 2% by their mother, Irit Federman) and 3% by Eran Schwartz. European Holdings International Ltd. is held by Petrol Investments Ltd. (50%) and Petco Investments Ltd. (50%). The shareholder of Petrol Investments Ltd. is David Federman, the husband of Irit Federman and father of Adi and Shelly Federman. Petco Investments Ltd. has the same shareholder structure as Gima Investments Ltd. As a result of the foregoing holdings, the corporate actions of the Company may be significantly influenced by the Federman family, Jacob Gottenstein, and Alex Passal. In addition, IPE may have sufficient voting power, subject to special approvals required by Israeli law for transactions involving controlling shareholders, to: · elect all of our directors (subject to the provisions of the Companies Law with regard to outside directors); and · approve or reject any merger, consolidation or other sale or liquidation event that requires approval of our shareholders. In the next few days, it is contemplated that IPE will sell all of its shares in Scailex to Suny for an aggregate purchase price of NIS 737 million (approximately $220 million). Immediately following such transaction, Suny will be our largest shareholder, and the corporate activities of the Company may be significantly influenced by Mr. Ilan Ben Dov, the indirect controlling shareholder of Suny. In addition, Suny would have sufficient voting power to elect all of our directors (subject to special voting provisions regarding the election of external directors) and approve or reject any merger, consolidation or other sale or liquidation event that requires approval of our shareholders. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. 14 