ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO BFC, GENERALLY We have in the past incurred cash flow deficits at the BFC parent company level which we expect will continue in the future. BFC is engaged in making investments in operating businesses and, in the past, BFC Parent has not had revenue generating operating activities. We have in the past incurred cash flow deficits at BFC Parent and expect to continue to incur cash flow deficits in the foreseeable future. We have financed these operating cash flow deficits with available working capital, issuances of equity or debt securities, and with dividends from our subsidiaries. BFC Parent is dependent upon dividends from its subsidiaries to fund its operations. Currently, BankAtlantic Bancorp is restricted from paying dividends and these restrictions may continue in the future. In addition, Bluegreen has historically not paid dividends on its common stock. As a result, if cash flow is not sufficient to fund our operating expenses in the future, we may be forced to reduce operating expenses, to liquidate some of our investments or to seek to fund our operations from the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such financing would be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would not be forced to liquidate our investments at depressed prices. Adverse conditions and events where our investments are currently concentrated or in the industries in which our subsidiaries operate could continue to adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s business, the location of BankAtlantic’s branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and home equity loans are concentrated in Florida. Further, our operations are concentrated in Florida and South Carolina. Economic conditions generally, and the economies of both Florida and South Carolina in particular have adversely impacted our results and operations. Further, each of these states is subject to the risks of natural disasters, such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The continued impact of the economic downturn, natural disasters or adverse changes in laws or regulations applicable to the companies could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, the desirability of our properties, the financial condition and performance of our customers and our overall success. In addition, Bluegreen’s operations, which are primarily conducted within the vacation ownership and real estate industry, have also been adversely impacted by the current economic downturn. The persistence or further deterioration of the current adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to the risks faced by the companies in which we currently hold investments. Our primary holdings consist of our direct and indirect investments in BankAtlantic Bancorp, Bluegreen, Core, Pizza Fusion and Benihana. As a result, we are subject to the risks faced by these companies in their respective industries. Each has been adversely affected by a downturn in the economy, loss of consumer confidence and disruptions in the credit markets. Our current business plan includes a focus on providing strategic support to the companies within our consolidated group, and in which we hold investments. Such support may include further investments in those companies. Any such additional investments will further expose us to the risks faced by those companies. We will be required to make a cash payment to shareholders of Woodbridge who exercised appraisal rights in connection with the Merger. Under Florida law, holders of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock who did not vote to approve the Woodbridge Merger and who properly asserted and exercised their appraisal rights with respect to their shares (“Dissenting Holders”) are entitled to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the fair value of their shares (as determined in accordance with the provisions of Florida law) in lieu of the shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock which they would otherwise have been entitled to receive. Dissenting Holders, who owned in the aggregate approximately 4.6 million shares of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock, provided written notice to Woodbridge regarding their intent to exercise their appraisal rights. In accordance with Florida law, Woodbridge provided written notices and required forms to the Dissenting Holders setting forth, among other things, its determination that the fair value of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Merger was $1.10 per share. Dissenting Holders were required to return their appraisal forms by November 10, 2009 and indicate on their appraisal forms whether the Dissenting Holder chose to (i) accept Woodbridge’s offer of $1.10 per share in cash, or (ii) demand payment of the fair value estimate determined by the Dissenting Holder plus interest. As of the date of this filing, one Dissenting Holder which held approximately 400,000 shares of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock had withdrawn its shares from the appraisal rights process, while the remaining Dissenting Holders, who collectively held approximately 4.2 million shares of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock, have rejected Woodbridge’s offer of $1.10 per share and requested payment for their shares based on their respective views of the fair value of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock prior to the merger. In December 2009, the Company recorded a $4.6 million liability with a corresponding reduction to additional paid-in capital representing, in the aggregate, Woodbridge’s offer to the Dissenting Holders. However, the appraisal rights litigation is currently ongoing and its outcome is uncertain. As a result, there is no assurance as to the amount of cash that Woodbridge will be required to pay to the Dissenting Holders and such amount may be greater than the $4.6 million that we have accrued. Any significant increase in Woodbridge’s obligation to Dissenting Holders who exercise their appraisal rights could have a material adverse effect on BFC’s and Woodbridge’s businesses. 30 Regulatory restrictions, BankAtlantic’ performance and the terms of indebtedness limit or restrict BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends which may impact our cash flow. At December 31, 2009, we held approximately 37% of the outstanding common stock of BankAtlantic Bancorp. Dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp are subject to a number of conditions, including the cash flow and profitability of BankAtlantic Bancorp, declaration of dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board of Directors, compliance with the terms of outstanding indebtedness, and regulatory restrictions applicable to BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate publicly traded company whose Board of Directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Decisions made by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board are not within our control and may not be made in our best interests. The declaration and payment of dividends and the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp to meet its debt service obligations will depend upon adequate cash holdings, which are driven by the results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements of BankAtlantic Bancorp, and the ability of BankAtlantic to pay dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The ability of BankAtlantic to pay dividends or make other distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to regulations and prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”). The OTS would not approve any distribution that would cause BankAtlantic to fail to meet its capital requirements or if the OTS believes that a capital distribution by BankAtlantic would constitute an unsafe or unsound action or practice, and there is no assurance that the OTS would approve future applications for capital distributions from BankAtlantic. During the first quarter of 2009, BankAtlantic suspended the payment of dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic has indicated that it does not intend to seek to make any capital distributions for the foreseeable future. In February 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp elected to exercise its right to defer payments of interest on its trust preferred junior subordinated debt. BankAtlantic Bancorp is permitted to defer quarterly interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters. During the deferral period, BankAtlantic Bancorp is prohibited from paying dividends to its shareholders, including BFC. While BankAtlantic Bancorp can end the deferral period at any time, BankAtlantic Bancorp has indicated that it anticipates that is may continue to defer such interest payments for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, BFC does not expect to receive dividends from BankAtlantic Bancorp for the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends by Bluegreen is not within our control. Bluegreen is a separate publicly traded company whose Board of Directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Decisions made by Bluegreen’s Board are not within our control and may not be made in our best interests. Bluegreen has not paid cash dividends during the three years ending December 31, 2009. Future dividends from Bluegreen are subject to approval by Bluegreen’s Board of Directors (a majority of whom are independent directors) and will depend upon, among other factors, Bluegreen’s results of operations, financial condition and operating and capital needs. Bluegreen may also be limited contractually from paying dividends by the terms of its credit facilities. Accordingly, there is no assurance that Bluegreen will pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to their respective parent companies may be subject to claims in the future from creditors of the subsidiary. Subsidiaries have in the past and may in the future make dividends or distributions to their parent companies. Dividend payments and other distributions by a subsidiary to its parent company, including payments or distributions from Core to Woodbridge, from BankAtlantic to BankAtlantic Bancorp, or from Woodbridge or BankAtlantic Bancorp to BFC may, in certain circumstances, be subject to claims made by creditors of the subsidiary which made the payment or distribution. Any such claim, if successful, may have a material and adverse impact on the financial condition of the parent company against which the claim was brought. 31 There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC, including those included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including purchase accounting fair value measurements, goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the amortization /accretion of purchase accounting fair value differences and the future value of goodwill and other intangible assets pursuant to applicable accounting guidance. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future. As a result, our estimates, judgments and assumptions may prove to be incorrect and our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, or our actual results differ from our estimates or assumptions, we may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges, which would be recorded as a charge against our earnings and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Our activities and our subsidiaries’ activities are subject to a wide range of regulatory requirements applicable to financial institutions and holding companies, and noncompliance with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company and BankAtlantic Bancorp are each grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding companies and have broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. However, the OTS can stop either of us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to BankAtlantic Bancorp; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit the activities of BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp or us; or • impose capital requirements on us or BankAtlantic Bancorp. In addition, unlike bank holding companies, as unitary savings and loan holding companies, BFC and BankAtlantic Bancorp are not currently subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. In addition, the current administration has proposed legislation which would, among other things, eliminate the status of “savings and loan holding company” and require us and BankAtlantic Bancorp to register as a bank holding company, which would subject us and BankAtlantic Bancorp to regulatory capital requirements. Further, the OTS or other regulatory bodies having authority over the Company in the future may adopt regulations in the future that would affect the Company’s operations, including BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Financial Services Regulation and Supervision — Holding Company.” 32 Certain members of our Board of Directors and certain of our executive officers are also directors and executive officers of our affiliates. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, are also members of the Boards of Directors and/or executive officers of BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic, Woodbridge, Bluegreen and Benihana. Neither Mr. Levan nor Mr. Abdo is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of the Company, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of our affiliates than they devote directly to our operations. Jarett S. Levan, a member of our Board of Directors, is the President of BankAtlantic Bancorp and the Chief Executive Officer of BankAtlantic and a member of the Board of each of them, and D. Keith Cobb, a member of our Board of Directors, is a member of the Boards of Directors of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. Risks Associated with Our Investments in the Restaurant Industry We have an investment in preferred shares of Benihana which are convertible to shares of Benihana’s Common Stock. Benihana operates 98 restaurants in the United States, including 64 Benihana teppanyaki restaurants, nine Haru sushi restaurants and 25 RA Sushi Bar restaurants. In addition, 23 franchised Benihana teppanyaki restaurants operate in the United States, Latin America and the Caribbean. We have an investment in Pizza Fusion which has 18 restaurants, including 2 Company owned restaurants and 16 franchised restaurants, operating in 9 states and had entered into franchise agreements for an additional 12 stores by September 2010. As such, we are subject to the risks faced by these companies and the value of our investment will be influenced by the market performance and financial performance of these companies. Some of the risk factors common to the restaurant industry which might affect the performance of these companies include: • the current economic downturn has adversely impacted consumer spending patterns and has had negative effects on consumer discretionary spending; • the limited availability and high cost of credit may continue or deteriorate further; • higher than normal food costs may adversely impact our results of operations; • the failure of existing or new restaurants to perform as expected; • the inability to construct new restaurants and remodel existing restaurants within projected budgets and time periods; • increases in the minimum wage; • increases in unemployment; • intense competition in the restaurant industry; • the food service industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which could cause customers to avoid a particular restaurant, result in significant liabilities or litigation costs or damage reputation or brand recognition; and • implementing growth and renovation strategies may strain available resources. Our portfolio of equity securities and our investments in BankAtlantic Bancorp, Benihana and Bluegreen subjects us to equity pricing risks. Because BankAtlantic Bancorp and Bluegreen are consolidated in the Company’s financial statements, the decline in the market price of their stock would not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, a decline in the market price of the securities of either of these companies would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock and our equity securities are important to our valuation and ability to obtain equity or debt financing. We also have an investment in Benihana Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (“Benihana Preferred Stock”) for which no current market exists (unless converted into common stock). The 800,000 shares of Benihana Preferred Stock owned by the Company are convertible into 1,578,943 shares of Benihana Common Stock. At December 31, 2009, if converted, the aggregate market value of such shares would have been $6.6 million. The ability to realize or liquidate this investment will depend on future market and economic conditions and the ability to register our sale of shares of Benihana’s common stock in the event of the conversion of our shares of Benihana Convertible Preferred stock, all of which are subject to significant risk. 33 Our net operating loss carryforwards will be substantially limited as a result of the Merger with Woodbridge because the Merger resulted in an “ownership change” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We have experienced and continue to experience net operating losses. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we may utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in certain circumstances to offset future taxable income and to reduce federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. The Woodbridge merger, which was consummated on September 21, 2009, resulted in an “ownership change”, as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, our ability in the future to use our historic net operating loss carryforwards will be substantially limited, which could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. However, we believe that BFC may utilize Woodbridge’s net operating loss carryforwards. Accordingly, in September 2009, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to preserve shareholder value and protect our ability to use Woodbridge’s net operating loss carryforwards by providing a deterrent to holders of less than 5% of our common stock from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in our common stock. However, there is no assurance that the shareholder rights plan will successfully prevent against an “ownership change” or otherwise preserve our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income, nor is there any assurance that we will be in a position to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in the future even if we do not experience an “ownership change.” Issuance of Additional Securities In The Future. There is generally no restriction on our ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over our common stock. Authorized but unissued shares of our capital stock are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Directors, including issuances in connection with acquisitions, and any such issuance may be dilutive to our shareholders. There is also no restriction on the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp or Bluegreen to issue additional capital stock or incur additional indebtedness. Any future securities issuances by BankAtlantic Bancorp or Bluegreen may dilute our economic investment or voting interest in those companies. Our control position may adversely affect the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we owned all of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and approximately 17.3 million shares, or approximately 36%, of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 66% of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s total voting power. Additionally, we own approximately 16.9 million shares, or approximately 52%, of Bluegreen’s issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, we hold a controlling position with respect to BankAtlantic Bancorp and Bluegreen and have the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote of the companies, except with respect to BankAtlantic Bancorp in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates separate class votes. Our control position may have an adverse effect on the market prices of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s common stock. Alan B. Levan And John E. Abdo’s Control Position May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may be deemed to beneficially own shares of our common stock representing approximately 72% of our total voting power. These shares consist of 10,694,685 shares or 15.6% of our Class A Common Stock and 6,521,228 shares, or 87.4%, of our Class B Common Stock. Additionally, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo have agreed to vote their shares of our Class B common stock in favor of the election of the other to our Board of Directors for so long as they are willing and able to serve as directors of the Company. Further, John E. Abdo has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer certain of his shares of our Class B common stock and to obtain the consent of Alan B. Levan prior to the conversion of certain of his shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our Class A common stock. Since our Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single class on most matters, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote (except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class) and to elect the members of our Board of Directors. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Alan B. Levan’s and John E. Abdo’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. 34 The terms of our articles of incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class. The Class A Common Stock possesses in the aggregate 22% of the total voting power of all our common stock and the Class B Common Stock possesses in the aggregate the remaining 78% of the total voting power. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,800,000 shares, at which time the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 40% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 60%. If the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,400,000 shares, the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 53% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 47%. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 500,000 shares, at which time the fixed voting percentages will be eliminated. These changes in the relative voting power represented by each class of our common stock are based only on the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding. Thus issuances of Class A Common Stock will have no effect on these provisions. If additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued, it is likely that the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power will widen. While the amendment creating this capital structure was approved by our shareholders, the fixed voting percentage provisions are somewhat unique. If the market does not view this structure favorably, the trading price and market for our Class A Common Stock would be adversely affected. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. 35 RISKS RELATED TO WOODBRIDGE The defaults by Woodbridge and its subsidiaries under the terms of their outstanding indebtedness have resulted in acceleration of the debt and may result in judgments against the obligors. Lenders with respect to approximately $37.2 million of debt owed by Woodbridge and all of the approximately $209.9 million of debt owed by Core have declared the debt to be in default. While Woodbridge is disputing the fact that an event of default occurred under the terms of its indebtedness and is currently in negotiations with respect to the purported default with the FDIC (which holds the debt as a result of the failure of the lender), Core is currently pursuing all options with its lenders, including offering deeds in lieu of foreclosure with respect to the property collateralizing its loans. If these negotiations and efforts are not successful, the lenders may exercise remedies available to them as a result of the defaults, which may result in judgments against the obligors, the loss of the collateral and related losses beyond those previously incurred. This would be expected to materially and adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. Core has ceased substantially all development operations and may not be successful in achieving an orderly liquidation of its assets. As discussed throughout this report, Core is experiencing cash flow deficits. The significant decrease in land sales in 2009 and continued cash flow deficits contributed to, among other things, the deterioration of Core’s liquidity. As a result, Core has severely limited its development expenditures in Tradition, Florida and has completely discontinued development activity in Tradition Hilton Head. The value of Core’s assets has decreased, resulting in $78.0 million of impairment charges, including $13.6 million of impairment charges related to assets held for sale during 2009. Further, as described above, Core is currently in default under the terms of all of its loans. Core has commenced negotiations with its lenders in an effort to achieve an orderly liquidation of its operations without a bankruptcy filing, but there is no assurance that Core will be successful in its negotiations. If Core is not successful in its efforts to liquidate its assets or otherwise renegotiate its debt with its lenders, Core may need to pursue a bankruptcy filing and may be required to record additional impairment charges and losses beyond those previously incurred, which would likely have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Core utilized community development district and special assessment district bonds to fund development costs, and Core will be responsible for assessments until the underlying property is sold or otherwise transferred. Core established community development district and special assessment district bonds to access tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at Core’s master-planned communities. Core is responsible for any assessed amounts until the underlying property is sold. Accordingly, if Core continues to hold certain of its properties longer than originally projected (as a result of a continued downturn in the real estate markets or otherwise), Core may be required to pay a higher portion of annual assessments on such properties. In addition, Core could be required to pay down a portion of the bonds in the event its entitlements were to decrease as to the number of residential units and/or commercial space that can be built on the properties encumbered by the bonds. Moreover, Core has guaranteed payments for assessments under the district bonds in Tradition, Florida which would require funding if future assessments to be allocated to property owners are insufficient to repay the bonds. It may be difficult and costly to rent vacant space and space which may become vacant in future periods. We may not be able to maintain our overall occupancy levels in the commercial property we own. Our ability to continue to lease or re-lease vacant space in our commercial properties will be affected by many factors, including our properties’ locations, current market conditions and the provisions of the leases we enter into with the tenants at our properties. In fact, many of the factors which could cause our current tenants to vacate their space could also make it more difficult for us to re-lease that space. If we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commission fees paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of leasehold improvements. The failure to lease or to re-lease vacant space on satisfactory terms will have an adverse effect on our operating results. 36 If prospective purchasers of assets and tenants are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may further decline. Our results of operations are dependent in part on the ability of prospective purchasers of our real estate inventory and prospective commercial tenants to secure financing. The deterioration of the credit markets and the related tightening of credit standards may impact the ability of prospective purchasers and tenants to secure financing on acceptable terms, if at all. This may, in turn, negatively impact long-term rental and occupancy rates as well as the value of our commercial properties. Product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. Our real estate operations are subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are particularly common in the commercial real estate industry and can be costly. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. However, these insurance policies only protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims. In addition, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide reasonable assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, if applicable, are substantial and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is also currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to governmental regulations that may limit our operations, increase our expenses or subject us to liability. We are subject to laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies concerning, among other things: • environmental matters, including the presence of hazardous or toxic substances; • wetland preservation; • health and safety; • zoning, land use and other entitlements; • building design; and • density levels. We may also at times not be in compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we are not in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to penalties, lose our entitlement or be forced to incur significant expenses to cure any noncompliance. We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediation or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure to promptly remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or to use the property for its intended purpose. 37 Levitt and Sons had surety bonds on most of their projects, some of which were subject to indemnity by Woodbridge. Levitt and Sons had $33.3 million in surety bonds relating to its ongoing projects at the time of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that these obligations are drawn and paid by the surety, Woodbridge could be responsible for up to $8.0 million plus costs and expenses in accordance with the surety indemnity agreements it executed. At December 31, 2009, we had a $0.5 million in surety bonds accrual related to certain Levitt and Sons bonds where management believes it to be probable that Woodbridge will be required to reimburse the surety under applicable indemnity agreements. It is unclear whether and to what extent the remaining outstanding surety bonds of Levitt and Sons will be drawn and the extent to which Woodbridge may be responsible for additional amounts beyond this accrual. Woodbridge will not receive any repayment, assets or other consideration as recovery of any amount it may be required to pay. If losses on additional surety bonds are identified, we will need to take additional charges associated with our exposure under our indemnities, and this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 38 RISKS RELATED TO BLUEGREEN Bluegreen presents its results in two reportable segments. Bluegreen’s results of operations for the Bluegreen Interim Period are consolidated in BFC Financial Corporation’s financial statements. Bluegreen is a separate public company and its management prepared the following discussion regarding Bluegreen which was included in Bluegreen’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 31, 2010. Accordingly, references to “we”, “us” or “our” in this section are references to Bluegreen and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC, Woodbridge, or BankAtlantic Bancorp. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive, highly regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to either predict all risk factors, or assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect our business. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited, to the risk factors set forth below and those identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Investors should also refer to our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (available on our website and the SEC’s website) in future periods for information relating to risks and uncertainties with respect to us and our business. The state of the economy, generally, interest rates and the availability of financing affect our ability to market VOIs and residential homesites. Our business has been adversely affected by unfavorable general economic and industry conditions, including effects of weak domestic and world economies, rising unemployment and job insecurity, a decrease in discretionary spending, a decline in housing values, limited availability of financing, and geopolitical conflicts. If such conditions continue, or deteriorate further, our business and results may continue to be adversely impacted, particularly if the availability of financing for us or for our customers continues to be limited or if changes in general economic conditions adversely affect our customers ability to pay amounts owed under our notes receivable. Further, because our operations are conducted mainly within the vacation ownership industry, any adverse changes affecting the industry, such as an oversupply of vacation ownership units, a reduction in demand for such units, changes in travel and vacation patterns, changes in governmental regulation of the industry, continued disruptions in the credit markets and unavailability of financing, imposition of increased taxes by governmental authorities, the declaration of bankruptcy and/or credit defaults by other vacation ownership companies and negative publicity for the industry, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We would incur substantial losses if the customers we finance default on their obligations, and new credit underwriting standards may not have the anticipated favorable impact on performance. Historically, we did not perform credit checks of the purchasers of our VOIs at the time of sale in connection with our financing of their purchases. From time to time, however, we obtained FICO® scores on the overall VOI portfolio originated by us. Based on a review conducted in October 2008, approximately 30.4% of VOI borrowers in our serviced loan portfolio had a FICO® score below 620. Effective December 15, 2008, we implemented a formal FICO® score based credit underwriting program. However, there is no assurance that any of these FICO® score-based underwriting standards will result in decreased default rates or otherwise improve the performance of our receivables. Conditions in the mortgage industry, including both credit sources as well as borrowers’ financial profiles, have deteriorated in recent years. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 5.4% of our vacation ownership receivables and approximately 22.5% of residential land receivables which we held or which third parties held under sales transactions were more than 30 days past due. Although in many cases we may have recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans or the cost of doing so may not be justified. Historically, we have generally not pursued such recourse against our customers. In the case of our VOI receivables, if we are unable to collect the defaulted amount due, we traditionally have terminated the customer’s interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club and then remarketed the recovered VOI. Irrespective of our remedy in the event of a default, we cannot recover the marketing, selling and administrative costs associated with the original sale, and we would have to incur such costs again to resell the VOI or home site. If default rates for our borrowers increase further, it may require an increase in the provision for loan losses and an impairment of the value of our retained interests in notes receivable sold. In addition, it may cause buyers of, or lenders whose loans are secured by, our VOI notes receivable to reduce the amount of availability under receivables purchase and credit facilities, or to increase the interest costs associated with such facilities. In such an event, the cost of financing may increase and we may not be able to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which would adversely affect our earnings, financial position and liquidity. Under the terms of our pledged and receivable sale facilities, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to replace receivables or to pay down the loan to within permitted loan-to-value ratios. Additionally, the terms of our securitization-type transactions i.) require us to repurchase or replace loans if we breach any of the representations and warranties we made at the time we sold the receivables and ii.) include provisions that in the event of defaults by customers in excess of stated thresholds would require substantially all of our cash flow from our retained interest in the receivable portfolios sold to be paid to the parties who purchased the receivables from us. 39 Further, if defaults and other performance criteria adversely differ from estimates used to value our retained interests in notes receivable sold in the securitization transactions, we may be required to write down these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, we bear some risks of delinquencies and defaults by buyers who finance the purchase of their VOIs or residential land through us, regardless of whether or not we sell or pledge the buyer’s loan to a third party. Our business plan historically has depended on our ability to sell or borrow against our notes receivable to support our liquidity and profitability. We offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to purchasers of our VOIs and homesites. Approximately 68% of our VOI customers and approximately 6% of our home site customers utilized our in-house financing during the year ended December 31, 2009. However, we incur selling, marketing and administrative cash expenditures prior to and concurrent with the sale. These costs generally exceed the down payment we receive at the time of the sale. Accordingly, our ability to borrow against or sell the notes receivable we receive from our customers has been a critical factor in our continued liquidity. We have also been a party to a number of customary securitization-type transactions under which we sell receivables to a wholly-owned special purpose entity which, in turn, sells the receivables to a trust established for the transaction. We typically recognized gains on the sale of receivables and such gains have historically comprised a significant portion of our income. In recent years, the markets for notes receivable facilities and receivable securitization transactions were negatively impacted by problems in the residential mortgage markets and credit markets in general and an associated reduction in liquidity which resulted in reduced availability of financing and less favorable pricing. If our pledged receivables facilities terminate or expire and we are unable to replace them with comparable facilities, or if we are unable to continue to participate in securitization-type transactions on acceptable terms, our liquidity, cash flow, and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. If any of our current facilities terminate or expire, there is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate the pledge or sale of our notes receivable at favorable rates, or at all. While we have attempted to restructure our business to reduce our need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that such restructuring will be successful or that our business and profitability will not otherwise continue to depend on our ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically depended on funds from our credit facilities and securitization transactions to finance our operations. In recent years, there have been unprecedented disruptions in the credit markets, which has made obtaining additional and replacement external sources of liquidity more difficult and more costly. The term securitization market has experienced significantly reduced volumes in recent years and, as a result, financial institutions are reluctant to enter into new credit facilities for the purpose of providing financing on consumer receivables. Several lenders to the timeshare industry, including certain of our lenders, have announced that they will be either be exiting the finance business or will not be entering into new financing commitments for the foreseeable future, although such lenders continue to honor existing commitments. In addition, financing for real estate acquisition and development and the capital markets for corporate debt have been generally unavailable. In response to these conditions, we adopted strategic initiatives in an attempt to conserve cash. Further, because we had debt facilities maturing or requiring partial repayment in 2009 and 2010, as well as facilities for which the advance period has or will expire, the implementation of our strategic initiatives was needed to address these matters with our lenders. However, there is no assurance that our implementation of these strategic initiatives will enhance our financial position or otherwise be successful. If these initiatives do not have their intended results, our financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, notwithstanding our implementation of the strategic initiatives described above, we anticipate that we will continue to finance our future business activities, in part, with funds that we obtain pursuant to additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities, under credit facilities that we may obtain in the future, under securitizations in which we may participate in the future or pursuant to other borrowing arrangements. Moreover, we are, and will be, required to seek continued external sources of liquidity to: • support our operations; • finance the acquisition and development of VOI inventory and residential land; • finance a substantial percentage of our sales; and • satisfy our debt and other obligations. 40 Our ability to service or to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing (including our ability to consummate future notes receivable securitizations) depends on the credit markets and on our future performance, which is subject to a number of factors, including the success of our business, results of operations, leverage, financial condition and business prospects, prevailing interest rates, general economic conditions and perceptions about the residential land and vacation ownership industries. We have approximately $87.5 million of indebtedness which becomes due during 2010. While we have received a non-binding term sheet to refinance $40.2 million of this amount which would reduce our contractual obligations less than one year by $26.6 million, there can be no assurances that this transaction will close on favorable terms, if at all. Historically, much of Bluegreen’s debt has been renewed or refinanced in the ordinary course of business. But there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient external sources of liquidity on attractive terms, or at all, or otherwise renew, extend or refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt. Any of these occurrences may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted if our estimates concerning our notes receivable are incorrect. A portion of our revenue historically has been comprised of gains on sales of notes receivable in off-balance sheet arrangements. The amount of any gains recognized and the fair value of the retained interests recorded were based in part on management’s best estimates of future prepayment, default and loss severity rates, discount rates and other considerations in light of then-current conditions. Our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if, among other things: • actual prepayments with respect to loans sold occur more quickly than was projected; • actual defaults and/or loss severity rates with respect to loans sold are greater than estimated; • the portfolio of receivables sold fails to satisfy specified performance criteria; or • conditions in the securitization market continue to result in a widening of interest spreads, causing the discount rates used to value our retained interest in notes receivable sold to increase. If any of these situations were to occur, it could cause a decline in the fair value of the retained interests and a charge to earnings currently. Further, in certain events the cash flow on the retained interests in notes receivable sold could be reduced, in some cases, until the outside investors are paid or the regular payment formula was resumed. Our future success depends on our ability to market our products successfully and efficiently. We compete for customers with other hotel and resort properties and vacation ownership resorts. While in the short term we have made a decision to limit sales and reduce cash requirements, in the long run, the identification of sales prospects and leads, and the marketing of our products to them are essential to our success. We have incurred and will continue to incur the expenses associated with marketing programs in advance of closing sales to the leads that we identify. If our lead identification and marketing efforts do not yield enough leads or we are unable to successfully convert sales leads to a sufficient number of sales, we may be unable to recover the expense of our marketing programs and systems and our business would be adversely affected. We are subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including the declines in real estate values and the deterioration of real estate sales. Real estate markets are cyclical in nature and highly sensitive to changes in national and regional economic conditions, including: • levels of unemployment; • levels of discretionary disposable income; • levels of consumer confidence; • the availability of financing; • overbuilding or decreases in demand; • interest rates; and, • federal, state and local taxation methods. 41 The real estate market is currently experiencing a significant correction, the depth and duration of which are as yet unknown and many economists and financial analysts, as well as the media in general, believe that we are in the midst of a general economic recession. These circumstances have exerted pressure upon our Bluegreen Communities and Bluegreen Resorts divisions. Further, a continued deterioration of the economy in general or the market for residential land or VOIs would have a material adverse effect on our business. The availability of land at favorable prices for the development of our Bluegreen Resorts and Bluegreen Communities real estate projects by the time we will need more real estate inventory to sell is critical to our profitability and the ability to cover our significant selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of capital and other expenses. While we believe that the property we have purchased at our adjusted carrying amounts will generate appropriate margins, land prices have fallen significantly and the projects we bought in the last several years may have been bought at higher price levels than available in the current market. If we are unable to acquire such land or, in the case of Bluegreen Resorts, resort properties, at a favorable cost, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The profitability of our real estate development activities is also impacted by the cost of construction materials and services. Should the cost of construction materials and services rise, the ultimate cost of our Bluegreen Resorts’ and Bluegreen Communities’ inventories when developed could increase and have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Our adoption on January 1, 2010, of recently issued accounting guidance will have a material adverse impact on our net worth, leverage, and book value per share. The initial adoption of FASB ASC 860-10 and FASB ASC 810-10 in our 2010 first quarter will require us to consolidate our existing qualifying special purpose entities associated with past securitization transactions. As such, we will record a one-time non-cash after-tax charge directly to shareholders’ equity of approximately $35.0 million to $55.0 million, representing the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, in the first quarter of 2010. The cumulative effect will consist primarily of the reestablishment of notes receivable (net of reserves) associated with those securitization transactions, the elimination of residual interests that we initially recorded in connection with those transactions, the impact of recording debt obligations associated with third party interests held in the special purpose entities and related adjustments to deferred financing costs and inventory balances. We anticipate that our adoption of these standards will have the following impacts on our balance sheet: (1) assets will increase by approximately $335.0 million to $345.0 million primarily related to the consolidation of notes receivable; (2) liabilities will increase by approximately $380.0 million to $390.0 million, primarily representing the consolidation of debt obligations associated with third party interests; and (3) shareholders’ equity will decrease by approximately $35.0 million to $55.0 million. There can be no assurances that this change in accounting principle will not adversely affect the market value of our common stock or the assessment of our financial position by investors and lenders. Claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We engage third-party contractors to construct our resorts and to develop our communities. However, our customers may assert claims against us for construction defects or other perceived development defects, including, without limitation, structural integrity, the presence of mold as a result of leaks or other defects, water intrusion, asbestos, electrical issues, plumbing issues, road construction, water and sewer defects and defects in the engineering of amenities. In addition, certain state and local laws may impose liability on property developers with respect to development defects discovered in the future. We could have to accrue a significant portion of the cost to repair such defects in the quarter when such defects arise or when the repair costs are reasonably estimable. A significant number of claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect our business. Based on our experience at our resorts and at destination resorts owned by third parties, we believe that resales of VOIs generally are made at net sales prices below their original customer purchase prices. The relatively lower sales prices are partly attributable to the high marketing and sales costs associated with the initial sales of such VOIs. Accordingly, the initial purchase of a VOI may be less attractive to prospective buyers. Also, buyers who seek to resell their VOIs compete with our efforts to sell our VOIs. While VOI resale clearing houses or brokers currently do not have a material impact on our business, if a secondary market for VOIs were to become more organized and liquid, the resulting availability of resale VOIs at lower prices could adversely affect our sales prices and the number of sales we can close, which in turn would adversely affect our business and results of operations. 42 We may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. The federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we conduct business have enacted extensive regulations that affect the manner in which we market and sell VOIs and homesites and conduct our other business operations. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of VOIs and homesites. Many states, including Florida and South Carolina, where some of our resorts are located, extensively regulate the creation and management of timeshare resorts, the marketing and sale of timeshare properties, the escrow of purchaser funds prior to the completion of construction and closing, the content and use of advertising materials and promotional offers, the delivery of an offering memorandum and the creation and operation of exchange programs and multi-site timeshare plan reservation systems. Moreover, with regard to sales conducted in South Carolina, the closing of real estate and mortgage loan transactions must be conducted under the supervision of an attorney licensed in South Carolina. In June 2006, South Carolina enacted the “Time Sharing Transaction Procedures Act” which, among other things, further clarified the process that must be followed in the sale and purchase of timeshare interests. Most states also have other laws that regulate our activities, such as: • timeshare project registration laws; • real estate licensure laws; • mortgage licensure laws; • sellers of travel licensure laws; • anti-fraud laws; • consumer protection laws; • telemarketing laws; • prize, gift and sweepstakes laws; and • consumer credit laws. We currently are authorized to market and sell VOIs and homesites in all states in which our operations are currently conducted. If our agents or employees violate applicable regulations or licensing requirements, their acts or omissions could cause the states where the violations occurred to revoke or refuse to renew our licenses, render our sales contracts void or voidable, or impose fines on us based on past activities. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings”. In addition, the federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we conduct business have enacted extensive regulations relating to direct marketing and telemarketing generally, including the federal government’s national “Do Not Call” list. The regulations have impacted our marketing of VOIs, and we have taken steps in an attempt to decrease our dependence on restricted calls. However, these steps have increased and are expected to continue to increase our marketing costs. We cannot predict the impact that these legislative initiatives or any other legislative measures that may be proposed or enacted now or in the future may have on our marketing strategies and results. Further, from time to time, complaints are filed against the Company by individuals claiming that they received calls in violation of the regulation. Currently, most states have taxed VOIs as real estate, imposing property taxes that are billed to the respective property owners’ associations that maintain the related resorts and have not sought to impose sales tax upon the sale of the VOI or accommodations tax upon the use of the VOI. From time to time, however, various states have attempted to promulgate new laws or apply existing laws impacting the taxation of vacation ownership interests to require that sales or accommodations taxes be collected. Should new state or local laws be implemented or interpreted to impose sales or accommodations taxes on VOIs, our resorts business could be materially adversely affected. We believe we are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the sale and marketing of VOIs and homesites. From time to time, however, consumers file complaints against us in the ordinary course of our business. We could be required to incur significant costs to resolve these complaints. There is no assurance that we will remain in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, or that violations of applicable laws will not have adverse implications for us, including negative public relations, potential litigation and regulatory sanctions. The expense, negative publicity and potential sanctions associated with any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. 43 Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as common law, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including mold, located on, in or emanating from property that we own, lease or operate, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage at such property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our property or to borrow money using such real property or receivables generated from the sale of such real property as collateral. Noncompliance with environmental, health or safety requirements may require us to cease or alter operations at one or more of our properties. Further, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with one or more of our properties. The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact our ability to obtain, renew, or extend credit facilities, debt, or otherwise raise capital. Rating agencies from time to time review prior corporate and specific transaction ratings in light of tightened ratings criteria. During the third quarter of 2009, we were informed that one of the rating agencies downgraded its original ratings on certain bond classes in our prior securitizations. As a result of this or any future downgrades, holders of such bonds may be required to sell bonds in the market place and such sales could occur at a discount, which could impact the perceived value of such bonds and our ability to sell future securitization bonds at favorable terms, if at all. In addition, if rating agencies were to downgrade our corporate credit ratings, our ability to raise capital and/or issue debt at favorable terms or at all could be adversely impacted. Such a downgrade could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. 44 Financial Services Risk Factors Our Financial Services activities consist of BankAtlantic Bancorp (and its federal savings bank subsidiary, BankAtlantic), whose results of operations are consolidated with BFC. The only assets available to BFC from BankAtlantic Bancorp are dividends when and if declared and paid by BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate public company and its management prepared the following discussion which was included in BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 200,9 which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 19, 2010. Accordingly, references to “we”, “us” or “our” in this section under the caption “Financial Services” are references to BankAtlantic Bancorp and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation, Bluegreen Corporation or Woodbridge. BankAtlantic Bancorp has incurred significant losses during the last three years and if BankAtlantic Bancorp continues to incur significant losses BankAtlantic Bancorp will need to raise additional capital, which may not be available on attractive terms, if at all. BankAtlantic Bancorp has incurred losses of $22.2 million, $202.6 million and $185.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, respectively. As part of its efforts to maintain regulatory capital ratios, BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings. However, the reduction of earning asset balances has resulted in reduced income while at the same time BankAtlantic has experienced significant credit losses. BankAtlantic Bancorp contributed $65 million and $105 million to the capital of BankAtlantic during the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp had $14 million of liquid assets. While a wholly-owned work-out subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp also holds a portfolio of approximately $31.3 million of nonperforming loans, net of reserves, $3.1 million of performing loans and $10.5 million of real estate owned which it could seek to liquidate, BankAtlantic Bancorp’s sources of funds to continue to support BankAtlantic are limited. If BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic continue to experience losses and BankAtlantic’s capital ratios decline, we may become subject to regulatory actions with respect to BankAtlantic, including the requirement to raise capital, and there is no assurance that at that time BankAtlantic Bancorp would have sufficient funds in order to provide BankAtlantic capital, or that BankAtlantic Bancorp or BankAtlantic would have access to capital or that capital would be available without significant cost or without resulting in significant dilution to BankAtlantic Bancorp’s shareholders. Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In light of the current challenging economic environment and the desire for BankAtlantic Bancorp to be in a position to provide capital to BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp has and will continue to evaluate the advisability of raising additional funds through the issuance of securities. Any such financing could be obtained through additional public offerings, private offerings, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. We could also pursue these financings at the BankAtlantic Bancorp level or directly at BankAtlantic or both. Issuances of equity directly at BankAtlantic would dilute BankAtlantic Bancorp’s interest in BankAtlantic. During February 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC pursuant to which we may issue up to $75 million of our Class A common stock and/or other securities in the future. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. As a result, our shareholders bear the risk of future offerings at the BankAtlantic Bancorp level reducing the price of our Class A common stock and future offerings directly at BankAtlantic diluting BankAtlantic Bancorp’s interest in BankAtlantic. 45 BankAtlantic’s capital levels at December 31, 2009 exceeded “well capitalized” regulatory capital levels. BankAtlantic Bancorp during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 contributed $105 million and $65 million, respectively, of capital to BankAtlantic and at December 31, 2009 BankAtlantic Bancorp had $14 million of liquid assets. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to contribute additional capital to BankAtlantic will depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to liquidate its portfolio of non-performing loans. The OTS has the right to impose additional capital requirements on banks at its discretion and could impose additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may make it more difficult or more costly to obtain financing. There is no assurance that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The terms and pricing of any future transaction by BankAtlantic Bancorp or BankAtlantic could result in additional substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could adversely impact the price of our Class A common stock. If BankAtlantic sustains additional operating losses or if the OTS imposes more stringent capital requirements, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic Bancorp will be able to provide additional capital, if needed, in order for BankAtlantic to meet its capital requirements in future periods. BankAtlantic Bancorp has deferred interest on its outstanding junior subordinated debentures and anticipates that it will continue to defer this interest for the foreseeable future which could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. BankAtlantic Bancorp began deferring interest on all of its $294 million of junior subordinated debentures as of March 2009 which resulted in the deferral and accrual of $14.1 million of regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments that would otherwise have been paid during the year ended December 31, 2009. The terms of the junior subordinated debentures allow BankAtlantic Bancorp to defer interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods, and BankAtlantic Bancorp anticipates that it will continue to defer such interest for the foreseeable future. During the deferral period, interest continues to accrue on the junior subordinated debentures, as well as on the deferred interest, at the relevant stated coupon rate, and at the end of the deferral period BankAtlantic Bancorp will be required to pay all interest accrued during the deferral period. In the event that BankAtlantic Bancorp elects to defer interest on its junior subordinated debentures for the full 20 consecutive quarterly periods permitted under the terms of the junior subordinated debentures, BankAtlantic Bancorp would owe approximately $72 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2013 (based on average interest rates applicable at December 31, 2009, which were at historically low interest rate levels). As most of the outstanding junior subordinated debentures bear interest at rates that are indexed to LIBOR, if LIBOR rates increase the interest that would accrue during the deferral period would be significantly higher and likewise increase the amount BankAtlantic Bancorp would owe at the conclusion of the deferral period. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s cash offers to purchase $230 million of trust preferred securities issued by statutory business trusts formed by BankAtlantic Bancorp may not be consummated. During January 2010, BankAtlantic Bancorp commenced cash offers to purchase all outstanding trust preferred securities having an aggregate principal amount of approximately $285 million at a purchase price of $200 per $1,000 liquidation amount, or an aggregate of $57 million. During February 2010, the cash offer with respect to the approximate $55 million of publicly traded trust preferred securities expired without any such trust preferred securities being repurchased, while the expiration date for the offers relating to the remaining $230 million of trust preferred securities was extended until March 22, 2010. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to complete the offers to purchase $230 million of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s trust preferred securities is contingent upon the completion of a financing transaction sufficient to pay the purchase price, and the receipt of tenders and consents from Holders of the requisite amount of the relevant series of trusts preferred securities. The structure of the ownership of the trust preferred securities (the majority of which are held in pools with the securities of other issuers as collateral for collateralized debt obligations) has made it very difficult to communicate with the beneficial owners or negotiate the repurchase or modification of the terms of the outstanding securities. Accordingly, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic Bancorp will be able to repurchase or redeem any or a significant portion of the trust preferred securities. Further, as noted above, BankAtlantic Bancorp has deferred making interest payments on the trust preferred securities and BankAtlantic Bancorp financial condition would be adversely affected if interest payments on the trust preferred securities were deferred for a prolonged period of time. While BankAtlantic Bancorp anticipates that it will continue to defer interest payments for the foreseeable future, in the event that BankAtlantic Bancorp completes offers to purchase for less than all of its series of trust preferred securities, BankAtlantic Bancorp expects that it may cease the deferral of interest on the series of trust preferred securities which will not be repurchased prior to completing the repurchase of the other series and immediately thereafter once again commence the deferral of interest with respect to all remaining series of trust preferred securities not repurchased. Any issuance of our Class A common stock to raise funds to finance the purchase of any or all of the trust preferred securities subject to these offers could be extremely dilutive to existing shareholders. 46 Historically BankAtlantic Bancorp has relied on dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt and pay dividends, but no dividends from BankAtlantic are anticipated or contemplated for the foreseeable future. Generally, a financial institution is permitted to make capital distributions without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to its net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that the financial institution would not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic had a retained net deficit and therefore is required to obtain approval from the OTS in order to make capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic does not intend to seek to make any capital distribution for the foreseeable future. For a further discussion refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources”. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The continued deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the continued decline in median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in a substantial increase in BankAtlantic’s non-performing assets and provision for loan losses over the past three years. The housing industry is in the midst of a substantial and prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the deteriorating condition of the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted over the past three years as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further in Florida. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $263 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us very susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market have deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2009, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.5 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 62% of its loan portfolio. We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential loan portfolio has significant exposure to further declines in the Florida residential real estate market. The “Builder land bank loan” category held by BankAtlantic consists of 7 loans and aggregates $43.7 million of which six loans totaling $42.6 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2009. The “Land acquisition and development loan” category held by BankAtlantic consists of 27 loans and aggregates $171.9 million of which ten loans totaling $60.2 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2009. The “Land acquisition, development and construction loan” category held by BankAtlantic consists of 6 loans and aggregates $11.3 million of which one loan totaling $3.8 million was on non-accrual as of December 31, 2009. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2009 was $39.4 million with $14.1 million, $10.4 million and $14.9 million of “builder land bank loans”, “land acquisition and development loans”, and “land acquisition, development and construction loans”, respectively. 47 Market conditions have and may in the future result in our commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current depressed economic environment continues or deteriorates further, collateral values may decline further which likely would result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial and construction and development real estate loans are approximately $638.4 million of commercial non-residential and commercial land loans. A borrower’s ability to repay these loans is dependent upon additional leasing through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space are expected to continue to rise in 2010. Increased vacancies could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in real estate market conditions and BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes 16 large lending relationships totaling $429.0 million, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $20 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its store network. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve in the near term. Approximately 76% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages and BankAtlantic experienced higher delinquencies and credit losses in this portfolio during 2009. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices continue to fall, BankAtlantic may continue to experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic’s management evaluates the collectability of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. 48 Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans or if BankAtlantic perceives adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Increases in the allowance for loan losses with respect to the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary, or losses in that portfolio which exceed the current allowance assigned to that portfolio, would similarly adversely affect us. Adverse events in Florida, where BankAtlantic Bancorp business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by BankAtlantic Bancorp asset workout subsidiary) and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, BankAtlantic Bancorp is exposed to geographic risks as increasing unemployment, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market are more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than on similar institutions in markets outside of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are difficult to predict and may be exacerbated by global climate change. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. Approximately $776 million of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio consists of interest-only loans which represent approximately 50% of the total purchased residential loan portfolio. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, they are loans with reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increase our exposure to loss. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, BankAtlantic Bancorp’s consolidated nonperforming loans totaled $331 million and $287.4 million, or 8.96% and 6.65% of its loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, BankAtlantic Bancorp’s consolidated nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans and foreclosed real estate) were $379.7 million and $307.9 million, or 7.88% and 5.30% of our total assets, respectively. In addition, the Company had, on a consolidated basis, approximately $72.9 million and $95.3 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s consolidated nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and real estate market conditions improve, particularly in Florida but also nationally, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets. BankAtlantic Bancorp does not record interest income on nonperforming loans or real estate owned. When BankAtlantic Bancorp receives the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, BankAtlantic Bancorp is required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us which often results in an additional loss. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of nonperforming loans and nonperforming assets could impact our regulators’ view of appropriate capital levels in light of such risks. While BankAtlantic Bancorp seeks to manage its problem assets through loan sales, workouts, restructurings and other alternatives, decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial conditions, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. 49 Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. 50 BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to assist it in its efforts to quantify BankAtlantic’s interest rate risk. The model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. BankAtlantic obtains a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts, and recent legislation designed to limit service charges could reduce our fee income. BankAtlantic’s deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft fees. Changes in banking regulations, in particular the Federal Reserve’s new rules prohibiting banks from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs which will become effective July 1, 2010, may have a significant adverse impact on BankAtlantic’s service charge income and overall results. Additionally, changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Further, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in the inability to collect overdraft fees. A reduction in deposit account fee income could have an adverse impact on our earnings. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic and their subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation and legal proceedings which have resulted in a significant increase in non-interest expense relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include class action securities litigation and an SEC investigation as well as litigation arising out of our banking operations, including workouts and foreclosures, potential class actions by customers relating to their accounts and service and overdraft fees and legal proceedings associated with our tax certificate business and relationships with third party tax certificate ventures. While we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings and that the outcomes should not materially impact us, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. BankAtlantic has significantly reduced operating expenses over the past three years and BankAtlantic may not be able to continue to reduce expenses without adversely impacting its operations. BankAtlantic’s operating expenses have declined from $313.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $258.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. BankAtlantic reorganized its operations during this period and significantly reduced operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and seeking to maintain quality customer service. While management is focused on reducing overall expenses, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in efforts to further reduce expenses or that the current expense reductions can be maintained in the current environment. BankAtlantic’s inability to reduce or maintain its current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. Deposit insurance premium assessments may increase substantially, which would adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $11.0 million, including a $2.4 million special assessment. In September 2009, the FDIC issued a rule requiring institutions to prepay their insurance premiums for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, and increased annual insurance rates uniformly by three basis points in 2011. BankAtlantic’s prepaid insurance assessment was $31.3 million at December 31, 2009. If the economy worsens and the number of bank failures significantly increase or if the FDIC otherwise determines that action is necessary, BankAtlantic may be required to pay additional FDIC specific assessments or incur increased annual insurance rates which would increase our expenses and adversely impact our results. Further reductions in BankAtlantic’s assets may adversely affect our earnings and/or operations. BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings in order to improve its liquidity and regulatory capital ratios. The reduction of earning asset balances has reduced our net interest income. BankAtlantic Bancorp consolidated net interest income was $193.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $163.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The reduction in net interest income from earning asset reductions has previously been offset by lower operating expenses in prior periods. BankAtlantic Bancorp abilities to further reduce expenses without adversely affecting our operations may be limited and as a result further reductions in BankAtlantic Bancorp consolidated earning asset balances in future periods, may adversely affect earnings and/or operations. 51 Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing market and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may continue to decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs, decrease fee income and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of investment banks into bank holding companies, may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to competitively market its products and services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Continued asset valuation declines could adversely impact our credit losses and result in additional impairments of goodwill and other assets. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our financial statements. During 2009, the U.S. Treasury implemented various initiatives in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. These initiatives include the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), the guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness, purchasing certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, the purchase of mortgage securitizations, homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks, the lowering of the federal funds rate, emergency action against short selling practices, a temporary guaranty program for money market funds, the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers, coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector and other programs being developed. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the initiatives that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will have on the financial markets. The initiatives could have a material and adverse affect on BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition, results of operations and access to credit. 52 Further, recent events in the financial services industry and, more generally, in the financial markets and the economy, have led to various proposals for changes in the regulation of the financial services industry. Earlier in 2009, legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry was introduced in the U.S. Congress. Among other things, the legislation proposes the establishment of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would have broad authority to regulate providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services. Additional legislative proposals call for heightened scrutiny and regulation of any financial firm whose combination of size, leverage, and interconnectedness could, if it failed, pose a threat to the country’s financial stability, including the power to restrict the activities of such firms and even require the break-up of such firms at the behest of the relevant regulator. New rules have also been proposed for the securitization market, including requiring sponsors of securitizations to retain a material economic interest in the credit risk associated with the underlying securitization. Other recent initiatives also include: • The Federal Reserve’s proposed guidance on incentive compensation policies at banking organizations and the FDIC’s proposed rules tying employee compensation to assessments for deposit insurance; • Proposals to limit a lender’s ability to foreclose on mortgages or make such foreclosures less economically viable, including by allowing Chapter 13 bankruptcy plans to “cram down” the value of certain mortgages on a consumer’s principal residence to its market value and/or reset interest rates and monthly payments to permit defaulting debtors to remain in their home; • Proposed legislation concerning the comprehensive regulation of the “over-the-counter” derivatives market, including robust and comprehensive prudential supervision (including strict capital and margin requirements) for all “over-the-counter” derivative dealers and major market participants and central clearing of standardized “over-the-counter” derivatives; and • Proposal which would prohibit banks and bank holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading or owning, investing or sponsoring a hedge fund or private equity fund. The proposed legislation contains several provisions that would have a direct impact on us. Under the proposed legislation, the federal savings association charter would be eliminated and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be consolidated with the Comptroller of the Currency into a new regulator, the National Bank Supervisor. The proposed legislation would also require BankAtlantic to convert to a national bank. While there can be no assurance that any or all of the proposed regulatory or legislative changes will ultimately be adopted, these changes or any future changes, if enacted or adopted, may impact our business activities, require us to change certain of our business practices, materially affect our business model or affect retention of key personnel, and could expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes, and could therefore also adversely affect our business and operations. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that the initiatives that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will have on banks or the financial markets. These government initiatives could potentially have a material and adverse affect on BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition, results of operations and access to credit. BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic are each subject to significant regulation and BankAtlantic Bancorp’s activities and the activities of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic Bancorp’s business. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. Failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp, see “Regulations and Supervision”. Changes in the regulation or capital requirements associated with holding companies generally or BankAtlantic Bancorp in particular could also have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. 53 BankAtlantic Bancorp is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent BankAtlantic Bancorp from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS can also: • prohibit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to BankAtlantic Bancorp; • limit transactions between BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit BankAtlantic Bancorp’s activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • Impose capital requirements on BankAtlantic Bancorp or additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company BankAtlantic Bancorp has not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. In addition, as noted above, the current administration has proposed legislation which would, among other things, eliminate the status of “savings and loan holding company” and require BankAtlantic Bancorp to register as a bank holding company, which would subject BankAtlantic Bancorp to regulatory capital requirements. Further, the OTS or other regulatory bodies having authority over BankAtlantic Bancorp in the future may adopt regulations in the future that would affect the Company’s operations, including BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision — Holding Company.” BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans are funded by its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets are primarily funded through its customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings or liquidate a portion of its assets which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. For a further discussion on liquidity, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our loan portfolio subjects BankAtlantic Bancorp to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, and financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic reviews the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party, however, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. In addition, when deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we often rely on information furnished to us by such customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, and representations of the customers and counterparties that relates to the accuracy and completeness of the information. While we take all actions we deem necessary to ensure the accuracy of the information provided to us, there is no assurance that all information provided to us will be accurate or that we will successfully identify all information needed to fully assess the risk which may expose us to increased credit risk and counterparty risk. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will continue to be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan, as well as not being in a position to make independent determinations with respect to its interest. Further, the majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. 54 BankAtlantic Bancorp is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in its asset workout subsidiary. BankAtlantic Bancorp is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2009, BFC owned all of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 17,333,428 shares, or approximately 35.9%, of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 66% of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B common stock representing approximately 71.6% of BFC’s total voting power. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control BankAtlantic Bancorp, elect BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock generally vote together as a single class, with BankAtlantic Bancorp Class A common stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of BankAtlantic Bancorp common stock and BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock currently represents approximately 2% of our common equity and 47% of the total voting power. As a result, the voting power of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class A common stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by its Class B common stock. Further, BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 487,613 shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class A common stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock (after converting those shares to Class A common stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in BankAtlantic Bancorp, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock into shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class A common stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class A common stock. Provisions in BankAtlantic Bancorp charter documents may make it difficult for a third party to acquire BankAtlantic Bancorp and could depress the price of its Class A Common Stock. BankAtlantic Bancorp Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class A common stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in BankAtlantic Bancorp Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of BankAtlantic Bancorp Class B common stock; • the authority of BankAtlantic Bancorp board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of BankAtlantic Bancorp board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. 55 A sustained decline in BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A common stock from the New York Stock Exchange. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange. Like many other companies involved in the financial services industry, the trading price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock has experienced a substantial decline. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $15 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. As of February 25, 2010, the average market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock over the prior 30 trading day period was $1.41, and BankAtlantic Bancorp’s average market capitalization over that period was $69.3 million. However, the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock is subject to significant volatility and there is no assurance that it will not decrease in the future so as to cause BankAtlantic Bancorp not to comply with the New York Stock Exchange’s requirement for continued listing. If BankAtlantic Bancorp does not meet the requirements for continued listing, then BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, BankAtlantic Bancorp would attempt to cause its Class A common stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, in such event, the trading price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock to sell or purchase shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A common stock, and it may become more difficult for BankAtlantic Bancorp to raise capital, which could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 56 