ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and investments, and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. Moreover, the Company and its subsidiaries operate in a very competitive, highly regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to either predict all risk factors, or assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect our business. BFC has in the past incurred cash flow deficits at its parent company level which are expected to continue in the future. BFC is engaged in making investments in operating businesses. Historically, BFC, at its parent company level, has not had revenue generating operating activities and has incurred cash flow deficits. BFC expects to continue to incur cash flow deficits for the foreseeable future. BFC has financed operating cash flow deficits with available working capital, issuances of equity or debt securities, and with dividends from its subsidiaries, which BFC has been dependent upon to fund its operations. Currently, BankAtlantic Bancorp is restricted from paying dividends and these restrictions may continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, Bluegreen has historically not paid dividends on its Common Stock and certain of Bluegreen’s credit facilities contain terms which restrict the payment of cash dividends without the lender’s consent or waiver. As a result, if cash flow is not sufficient to fund BFC’s operating expenses in the future, it may be forced to reduce operating expenses further, to liquidate some of its investments or to seek to fund its operations from the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. Such financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and if BFC is required to liquidate its investments, it may be forced to do so at depressed prices. Adverse conditions and events where BFC’s investments are currently concentrated or in the industries in which its subsidiaries operate could adversely impact its results and future growth. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s business, the location of BankAtlantic’s branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and home equity loans, as well as BFC’s operations, are concentrated in Florida. The downturn in economic conditions generally and in Florida in particular has adversely impacted BFC’s results and operations. Further, Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters, such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The impact of the economic downturn, natural disasters or adverse changes in laws or regulations applicable to BFC or the companies in which BFC holds investments could further impact its operating results and financial condition. These factors may particularly affect the credit quality of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and BankAtlantic’s assets, the desirability of BFC’s properties and the financial condition and performance of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic’s customers. In addition, Bluegreen’s operations, including those related to its Bluegreen Communities business unit, which are reported as discontinued operations, were also adversely impacted by the economic downturn. The persistence or further deterioration of the adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on BFC’s business and results of operations. BFC’s activities and its subsidiaries’ activities are currently subject to a wide range of regulatory requirements applicable to financial institutions and holding companies, and noncompliance with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on its business. BFC and BankAtlantic Bancorp are each grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding companies and have historically had broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. In addition, unlike bank holding companies, as unitary savings and loan holding companies, BFC and BankAtlantic Bancorp are not currently subject to capital requirements. However, it is anticipated that capital requirements will in the future be imposed on savings and loan holding companies. Further, future regulations may be adopted which may affect BFC’s operations or ability to continue to engage in certain of its current activities. Moreover, the Federal Reserve can prohibit BFC and BankAtlantic Bancorp from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that the continuation of any particular activities constitutes a risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. Further, as described below under “Risks Related to our Financial Services Activities”, the Cease and Desist Orders entered into by BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic and the regulations applicable to financial institutions significantly limit their activities. If BankAtlantic Bancorp completes the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T, these regulatory requirements may no longer be applicable to BFC or BankAtlantic Bancorp; however, the sale of BankAtlantic is subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions . The timing and impact, if any, of such sale on the regulatory requirements applicable to BFC and BankAtlantic Bancorp is not certain. 53 Table of Contents Risk Factors (BFC) There are limitations and restrictions on BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Bluegreen’s ability to pay dividends, which may impact BFC’s cash flow. At December 31, 2011, BFC held approximately 53% of the outstanding shares of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate publicly traded company whose board of directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the NYSE. Dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp are subject to a number of conditions, including the cash flow and profitability of BankAtlantic Bancorp, declaration of dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s board of directors, compliance with the terms of outstanding indebtedness, and regulatory restrictions applicable to BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. Decisions made by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s board of directors are not within BFC’s control and may not be made in BFC’s best interests. On February 23, 2011, BankAtlantic Bancorp entered into a Cease and Desist Order with the OTS which, among other things, restricts BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or make any other capital distributions without receiving the prior written non-objection of the Federal Reserve, which now has the supervisory authority previously held by the OTS. In addition, during February 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp elected to exercise its right to defer payments of interest on its trust preferred junior subordinated debt. BankAtlantic Bancorp is permitted to defer quarterly interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters. During the deferral period, BankAtlantic Bancorp is prohibited from paying dividends to its shareholders, including BFC. While BankAtlantic Bancorp can end the deferral period at any time, BankAtlantic Bancorp has indicated that it anticipates that it may continue to defer such interest payments for the foreseeable future. Under the stock purchase agreement entered into by BankAtlantic Bancorp with BB&T relating to the proposed sale of BankAtlantic, BB&T has agreed to assume at the closing of the transaction the approximately $285 million in principal amount of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s outstanding trust preferred securities, and BankAtlantic Bancorp agreed to pay all previously deferred interest payments and accrued interest with respect to its outstanding trust preferred securities through the closing. Closing of the transaction is subject to the parties’ receipt of all required regulatory approvals and other closing conditions. See the risk factor captioned, “The transaction between BB&T and the Parent Company may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all” under “Risks Related to Our Financial Services Activities” below for further information. In addition, BFC currently directly or indirectly owns approximately 54% of the outstanding shares of Bluegreen’s Common Stock. Bluegreen is currently a separate publicly traded company whose board of directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the NYSE. Decisions made by Bluegreen’s board of directors are not within BFC’s control and may not be made in BFC’s best interests. BFC has never received cash dividends from Bluegreen, and Bluegreen is currently limited contractually from paying dividends by the terms of certain of its credit facilities. In the event the merger is not consummated, future dividends from Bluegreen will, in addition to such restrictions, continue to be subject to approval by Bluegreen’s board of directors and depend upon, among other factors, Bluegreen’s results of operations, financial condition and operating and capital needs. The proposed merger between BFC and Bluegreen may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all, and there are uncertainties and risks to consummating the merger. As previously described, on November 11, 2011, BFC and Bluegreen entered into a definitive merger agreement pursuant to which, upon the consummation of the merger contemplated thereby, Bluegreen will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of BFC. Under the terms of the merger agreement, holders of Bluegreen’s common stock (other than BFC) will be entitled to receive, in exchange for each share of Bluegreen’s common stock that they hold at the effective time of the merger, eight shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock (as adjusted in connection with the reverse stock split expected to be effected by BFC immediately prior to the consummation of the merger). The merger agreement provides for the merger to be consummated by June 30, 2012, subject to extension to a date no later than September 30, 2012 in the event the parties are proceeding in good faith with respect to the consummation of the merger. However, consummation of the merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, including the approval of both BFC’s and Bluegreen’s shareholders, the listing of BFC’s Class A Common Stock on a national securities exchange at the effective time of the merger and the absence of any legal restraints or prohibitions preventing the completion of the merger or litigation or other proceeding seeking to enjoin or prohibit the merger. Following the announcement of the merger agreement, purported class action lawsuits seeking to enjoin the merger or, if it is completed, to recover relief as determined by the presiding court to be appropriate have been filed. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” In addition to the risks relating to such litigation, including the costs and expenses of defending the 54 Table of Contents Risk Factors (BFC) actions, BFC and Bluegreen may not be successful in obtaining the required vote of their respective shareholders, BFC’s efforts to have its Class A Common Stock listed on a national securities exchange may not be successful, certain other conditions to consummating the merger may not be satisfied or, to the extent permitted by the merger agreement, waived, and as a result thereof or for other reasons, the merger may not be consummated when expected, on the contemplated terms, or at all, in which case BFC and Bluegreen would have incurred significant transaction costs without consummating the merger. In addition, other risks and uncertainties faced by BFC and its shareholders with respect to the merger include, without limitation, that: • if the merger is consummated, BFC’s shareholders will have increased exposure to the vacation ownership and other industries in which Bluegreen operates; • if the merger is consummated, BFC’s shareholders will experience substantial dilution with respect to their equity ownership interest in BFC, as Bluegreen’s shareholders (other than BFC) will own approximately 60% of BFC’s then-total outstanding common equity following the merger (however, such Bluegreen shareholders will in the aggregate possess only approximately 14% of the total voting power of BFC); • the shares issuable by BFC in connection with the merger would represent approximately 62% of the total number of shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock outstanding following the merger, and the issuance and potential resale of these shares could have the effect of depressing the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock; • BFC will incur substantial costs and divert significant management resources in connection with its efforts to complete the merger; • Bluegreen’s shareholders are entitled to appraisal rights in connection with the consummation of the merger, and payments made to shareholders who exercise appraisal rights may materially adversely impact the combined company’s cash position following the consummation of the merger; and • the merger, if consummated, would likely result in BFC experiencing an “ownership change” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and therefore substantially limit BFC’s ability to utilize available net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. In addition, certain of Bluegreen’s outstanding facilities with Wells Fargo and RFA, which had an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately $21.1million at December 31, 2011, require the prior consent of the lenders to the merger. The Wells Fargo loan ($19.9 million outstanding as of December 31, 2011) is due upon the earlier of June 30, 2012 or the closing of the merger. RFA has indicated to Bluegreen that it intends to consent to the merger, and Bluegreen and RFA are in the process of legal documentation with respect to such consent. BFC will be required to make a cash payment to shareholders of Woodbridge who exercised appraisal rights in connection with the 2009 merger between the companies and the amount of such payment has not been determined. Under the FBCA, holders of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock who did not vote to approve BFC’s 2009 merger with Woodbridge and who properly asserted and exercised their appraisal rights with respect to their shares are entitled to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the fair value of their shares (as determined in accordance with the provisions of the FBCA) in lieu of the shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock which they would otherwise have been entitled to receive. In accordance with the FBCA, Woodbridge provided written notices and required forms to the dissenting holders setting forth, among other things, its determination that the fair value of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock immediately prior to the effectiveness of the merger was $1.10 per share. As of December 31, 2011,, dissenting holders, who collectively held approximately 4.2 million shares of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock, have rejected Woodbridge’s offer of $1.10 per share and requested payment for their shares based on their respective views of the fair value of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock prior to the merger. In December 2009, BFC recorded a $4.6 million liability with a corresponding reduction to additional paid-in capital representing, in the aggregate, Woodbridge’s offer to the dissenting holders. However, the appraisal rights litigation is ongoing, and the amount of cash that will be required to be paid to the dissenting holders is uncertain and may be greater than the $4.6 million that is currently accrued. Any significant increase in the obligation to the dissenting holders could have a material adverse effect on BFC’s financial condition. 55 Table of Contents Risk Factors (BFC) Dividends and distributions from BFC’s subsidiaries to their respective parent companies may be subject to claims in the future from creditors of the subsidiary. Subsidiaries have in the past and may in the future make dividends or distributions to their parent companies. Dividend payments and other distributions by a subsidiary to its parent company may, in certain circumstances, be subject to claims made by creditors of the subsidiary which made the payment or distribution. Any such claim, if successful, may have a material and adverse impact on the financial condition of the parent company against which the claim was brought. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on BFC’s financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports BFC filed with the SEC are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the amortization/accretion of purchase accounting fair value differences and the future value of goodwill and other intangible assets pursuant to applicable accounting guidance. BFC bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that BFC believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future. As a result, BFC’s estimates, judgments and assumptions may prove to be incorrect and BFC’s actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, or BFC’s actual results differ from BFC’s estimates or assumptions, BFC may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges, which would be recorded as a charge against its earnings and could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and operating results. Risks Associated with BFC’s Investments in Benihana BFC has an investment in Benihana. Benihana operates Japanese theme and sushi restaurants with 96 restaurants in the United States, including 63 Benihana Teppanyaki restaurants, eight Haru sushi restaurants and 25 RA Sushi Bar restaurants. In addition, 17 franchised Benihana teppanyaki restaurants operate in the United States, Latin America and the Caribbean. As such, the value of BFC’s investments in this company will be influenced by its financial performance, which is subject to a number of risks, including that the current economic downturn has adversely impacted consumer spending patterns and has had negative effects on consumer discretionary spending, higher than normal food costs may adversely impact operating results, the companies may be unable to construct new restaurants and remodel existing restaurants within projected budgets and time periods, the companies face intense competition in the restaurant industry, and the food service industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which could cause customers to avoid a particular restaurant, result in significant liabilities or litigation costs or damage reputation or brand recognition. In addition, Benihana recently announced that its Board of Directors is exploring strategic alternatives available to Benihana, including a possible sale of the company, in order to maximize shareholder value. The strategic alternative review process involves a number of risks and uncertainties, and may not ultimately result in Benihana consummating a transaction or, if a transaction is consummated, Benihana and/or its shareholders, including BFC, realizing the expected benefits of the transaction. BFC is also subject to risks in the event there is a decline in the price of Benihana’s Common Stock, as discussed below. BFC’s portfolio of equity securities and its investments in BankAtlantic Bancorp, Benihana and Bluegreen subject it to equity pricing risks. Because BankAtlantic Bancorp and Bluegreen are consolidated in BFC’s financial statements, the decline in the market price of their stock would not impact BFC’s consolidated financial statements. However, a decline in the market price of the securities of either of these companies would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and/or Class B Common Stock. The market price of BFC’s securities is important to its valuation and ability to obtain equity or debt financing. 56 Table of Contents Risk Factors (BFC) As discussed above, BFC also has an investment in Benihana. BFC currently owns 1,582,577 shares of Benihana’s Common Stock. At December 31, 2011, based on the $10.23 per share closing price of Benihana’s Common Stock on December 30, 2011, the last trading day of the year ended December 31, 2011, the market value of the 1,582,577 shares of Benihana’s Common Stock owned by BFC was approximately $16.2 million. A decline in the market price of Benihana’s Common Stock could have an adverse effect on BFC’s financial statements. In addition, the proceeds that BFC receives in the event it sells any of its shares of Benihana’s Common Stock will depend on the market price of Benihana’s Common Stock at the time of the sale. BFC may issue additional securities in the future. There is generally no restriction on BFC’s ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, provided that BFC is currently restricted from issuing any debt securities without obtaining the prior written non-objection of the Federal Reserve. Authorized but unissued shares of BFC’s capital stock are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of BFC’s board of directors, and any such issuance may be dilutive to BFC’s shareholders. If the proposed merger with Bluegreen is consummated, BFC will issue shares in an amount representing approximately 153% of its currently outstanding stock. There is also generally no restriction on the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp or Bluegreen to issue additional capital stock or on Bluegreen’s ability to incur additional indebtedness. Any such securities issuances may dilute BFC’s economic investment or voting interest in those companies. Certain members of BFC’s board of directors and certain of BFC’s executive officers are also directors and executive officers of BFC’s affiliates. Alan B. Levan, BFC’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, BFC’s Vice Chairman, are also members of the boards of directors and/or executive officers of BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic, Bluegreen and Benihana. Neither Mr. Levan nor Mr. Abdo is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of BFC, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of BFC’s affiliates than they devote directly to BFC’s operations. Jarett S. Levan, who serves as an Executive Vice President of BFC and as a member of its board of directors, is an executive officer and director of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic and a member of the board of directors of each of them, and D. Keith Cobb, a member of BFC’s board of directors, is a member of the boards of directors of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may adversely affect the market price of BFC’s Common Stock. Alan B. Levan, BFC’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, BFC’s Vice Chairman, may be deemed to beneficially own shares of BFC’s Common Stock, including shares that may be acquired pursuant to the exercise of stock options, representing approximately 72% of BFC’s total voting power. These shares consist of 12,049,451 shares, or 17%, of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and 6,521,228 shares, or 87%, of BFC’s Class B Common Stock. Additionally, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo have agreed to vote their shares of BFC’s Class B Common Stock in favor of the election of the other to BFC’s board of directors for so long as they are willing and able to serve as directors of BFC. Further, John E. Abdo has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer certain of his shares of BFC’s Class B Common Stock and to obtain the consent of Alan B. Levan prior to the conversion of certain of his shares of BFC’s Class B Common Stock into shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock. Since BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on most matters, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any vote of BFC’s shareholders (except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of BFC’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class) and to elect the members of BFC’s board of directors. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of BFC’s Common Stock. Alan B. Levan’s and John E. Abdo’s interests may conflict with the interests of BFC’s other shareholders. The loss of the services of BFC’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its business and the businesses of its subsidiaries. BFC’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy will depend on its ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. BFC may not be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against BankAtlantic Bancorp and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Alan Levan. While BankAtlantic Bancorp believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of 57 Table of Contents Risk Factors (BFC) this litigation is uncertain. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings-BankAtlantic Bancorp and its Subsidiaries” for further information regarding this litigation. As described above, Mr. Alan Levan is also the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC and, together with John E. Abdo, may be deemed to control BFC by virtue of their collective ownership interest in BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In the event Mr. Alan Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of BFC or any of its public company subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic Bancorp and Bluegreen, BFC and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, BFC believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by the continuation of service of BFC’s other executive officers, including Mr. Abdo, who has served as a director of BFC since 1988 and Vice Chairman of BFC since 1993, and Seth M. Wise, who has served as a director and Executive Vice President of BFC since 2009 and has been an executive officer of Woodbridge since 2003. In addition, as a holding company, BFC’s results are dependent upon the operations and success of its subsidiaries, and each subsidiary has executive management in place. BFC’s control position may adversely affect the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s Common Stock. As of December 31, 2011, BFC owned all of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and approximately 8.1 million shares, or approximately 53%, of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 75% of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s total voting power. Additionally, BFC currently directly or indirectly owns approximately 16.9 million shares, or approximately 54%, of Bluegreen’s issued and outstanding Common Stock. Accordingly, BFC holds a controlling position with respect to BankAtlantic Bancorp and Bluegreen and has the voting power to influence the outcome of any shareholder vote of the companies, except, with respect to BankAtlantic Bancorp, in those limited circumstances where the FBCA mandates separate class votes and, with respect to Bluegreen, where the MBCA requires a supermajority vote, such as in the case of the merger. BFC’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market prices of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s Common Stock. The terms of BFC’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market. BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class. The Class A Common Stock possesses in the aggregate 22% of the total voting power of all BFC’s Common Stock and the Class B Common Stock possesses in the aggregate the remaining 78% of the total voting power. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,800,000 shares, at which time the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 40% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 60%. If the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,400,000 shares, the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 53% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 47%. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 500,000 shares, at which time the fixed voting percentages will be eliminated. Each of these share thresholds will be ratably decreased in connection with the reverse stock split. Changes in the relative voting power represented by each class of BFC’s Common Stock are based only on the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding. Thus issuances of Class A Common Stock, including the shares to be issued in the merger, will have no effect on these provisions, and the issuance of additional shares of Class A Common Stock will widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power. While the amendment creating this capital structure was approved by BFC’s shareholders, the fixed voting percentage provisions are somewhat unique. If the market does not view this structure favorably, the trading price and market for BFC’s Class A Common Stock would be adversely affected. 58 Table of Contents Risk Factors (BFC) Pending litigation and legal proceedings and the impact of any finding of liability or damages could adversely impact BFC and its financial condition and operating results. BFC and its subsidiaries are subject to the pending legal proceedings described in “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as proceedings that may arise from time to time. While BFC believes that the parties to these proceedings have meritorious defenses in the pending legal actions, the ultimate outcomes of these matters are uncertain. Judgments against, or damages, fines or penalties imposed on, BFC , its subsidiaries or its officers in these actions, as well as actions which BFC and its subsidiaries may face in the future, may have a material adverse impact on BFC’s operating results and financial condition. BFC is subject to environmental laws related to its real estate activities and the cost of compliance could adversely affect its business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, BFC may be liable under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not BFC knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. 59 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) RISKS RELATED TO BLUEGREEN Bluegreen is a separate public company and its management prepared the following discussion which was included in Bluegreen’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” in the following discussion are references to Bluegreen and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC, BankAtlantic Bancorp, or BankAtlantic. Set forth below are the risk factors that Bluegreen believes to be material to its operations. While an agreement has been entered into with respect to the sale of substantially all of the assets which comprise Bluegreen Communities, the proposed sale may not be consummated on the contemplated terms or at all. As a result, the risk factors set forth below include those related to Bluegreen Communities and its business. The overall state of the economy, interest rates and the availability of financing affect our ability to market VOIs and residential homesites. Our business has been adversely affected by unfavorable general economic and industry conditions, including high unemployment rates and job insecurity, declines in discretionary spending, housing values and availability of financing, and geopolitical conflicts. If recent recovery trends do not continue or, economic conditions deteriorate, our business and results may be adversely impacted, particularly if financing for us or for our customers is unavailable or if changes in general economic conditions adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed under its notes receivable. Further, adverse changes affecting the vacation ownership industry, such as an oversupply of vacation ownership units, a reduction in demand for such units, changes in travel and vacation patterns, changes in governmental regulation of the industry, continued disruptions in the credit markets and unavailability of financing, imposition of increased taxes by governmental authorities, the declaration of bankruptcy and/or credit defaults by other vacation ownership companies and negative publicity for the industry, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We would incur substantial losses and our liquidity position could be adversely impacted if the customers it finances default on their obligations. Prior to December 15, 2008, we did not perform credit checks on the purchasers of our VOIs in connection with our financing of their purchases. Effective December 15, 2008, we implemented a FICO® score-based credit underwriting program, and enhanced this credit underwriting program during January 2010. While our loan portfolio originated after December 15, 2008 has experienced defaults at a lower rate than loans originated prior to that date, there is no assurance that its FICO® score-based underwriting standards will result in decreased default rates or otherwise result in the improved performance of its notes receivable. The conditions in the mortgage industry, including both credit sources as well as borrowers’ financial profiles, have deteriorated in recent years. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 4% of our vacation ownership receivables were more than 30 days past due. Although in many cases we may have recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states have laws that limit its ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans or the cost of doing so may not be justified. Historically, we have generally not pursued such recourse against its customers. In the case of our notes receivable secured by VOIs, if we are unable to collect the defaulted amount due, it traditionally has terminated the customer’s interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club and then remarketed the recovered VOI. Irrespective of our remedy in the event of a default, we cannot recover the marketing, selling and administrative costs associated with the original sale. In addition, we will need to incur such costs again in order to resell the VOI or homesite. In 2010 and 2011, we recorded charges of approximately $69.7 million and $13.0 million to increase our provision for loan losses primarily for loans that were originated prior to December 15, 2008. If default rates for our borrowers remain at current levels or increase, it may require an increase in the provision for loan losses. In addition, it may cause buyers of, or lenders whose loans are secured by, our VOI notes receivable to reduce the amount of availability under receivables purchase and credit facilities, or to increase the interest costs associated with such facilities. In such an event, the cost of financing may increase and we may not be able to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which would adversely affect our earnings, financial position and liquidity. Under the terms of our pledged and receivable sale facilities, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to replace receivables or to pay down the loan to within permitted loan-to-value ratios. Additionally, the terms of our securitization-type transactions require us to repurchase or replace loans if we breach any of the representations and warranties we made at the time we sold the receivables and include provisions that in the event of defaults by customers in excess of stated thresholds would require substantially all of our cash flow from our retained interest in the receivable 60 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) portfolios sold to be paid to the parties who purchased the receivables from us. In addition, we guaranteed certain payments under the Legacy Securitization (described in further detail in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements). Substantially all of the timeshare receivables backing the notes subject to the Legacy Securitization were generated prior to December 15, 2008, when we implemented our FICO® score-based credit underwriting program, and relate to loans to borrowers with FICO® scores below 600. While we have attempted to restructure our business to reduce our need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that such restructuring will be successful or that our business and profitability will not otherwise continue to depend on our ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to purchasers of our VOIs and homesites. However, we incur selling, marketing and administrative cash expenditures prior to and concurrent with the sale. These costs generally exceed the down payment we receive at the time of the sale. Accordingly, our ability to borrow against or sell the notes receivable we receive from our customers has been a critical factor in our continued liquidity, and we therefore have historically depended on funds from our credit facilities and securitization transactions to finance our operations. The disruption in the credit markets since 2007 has made obtaining additional and replacement external sources of liquidity more difficult and more costly. The number of banks and other finance companies willing to provide “warehouse” lines of credit for timeshare receivables has decreased in recent years. In addition, the term securitization market has become unavailable for extended periods of time in the past. If our pledged receivables facilities terminate or expire and we are unable to extend them or replace them with comparable facilities, or if we are unable to continue to participate in securitization-type transactions and “warehouse” facilities on acceptable terms, our liquidity, cash flow and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, financing for real estate acquisition and development and the capital markets for corporate debt have been limited. In response to these conditions, during 2008, we adopted initiatives, which included limiting sales and encouraging higher down payments on sales, in an attempt to conserve cash. We also have increased our focus on expanding our fee-based service business. However, there is no assurance that our implementation of these initiatives will enhance our financial position or otherwise be successful. If these initiatives do not have their intended results, our financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, notwithstanding the initiatives implemented by us since 2008 to improve our cash position, we anticipate that we will continue to seek and use external sources of liquidity, including funds that we obtain pursuant to additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities, under credit facilities that we may obtain in the future, under securitizations in which we may participate in the future or pursuant to other borrowing arrangements, to: • support our operations; • finance the acquisition and development of VOI inventory or property and equipment; • finance a substantial percentage of our sales; and • satisfy our debt and other obligations. Our ability to service or to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing (including our ability to consummate future term securitizations) depends on the credit markets and on our future performance, which is subject to a number of factors, including the success of our business, results of operations, leverage, financial condition and business prospects, prevailing interest rates, general economic conditions and perceptions about the vacation ownership and real estate industries. Further, reputational and other risks to both the lender and to Bluegreen associated with the 2007 bankruptcy of BFC’s Levitt and Sons subsidiary and the lawsuit brought by the SEC against BankAtlantic Bancorp, BFC’s subsidiary, and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, who is also Chairman of Bluegreen’s board of directors, may be considered by lenders in connection with both making and renewing extensions of credit. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $68.3 million of indebtedness scheduled to become due during 2012. Historically, much of our debt has been renewed or refinanced in the ordinary course of business. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient external sources of liquidity on attractive terms, or at all, or otherwise renew, extend or refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt. Any of these occurrences may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. 61 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) In addition, certain of our outstanding facilities with Wells Fargo and RFA, which had an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately $21.1 million at December 31, 2011, require the prior consent of the lenders to our proposed merger with BFC. The Wells Fargo loan ($19.9 million outstanding as of December 31, 2011) is due the earlier of June 30, 2012 or the closing of the merger. RFA has indicated that they intend to consent to the merger, and we are in the process of legal documentation on such consent. See the risk factor captioned “Our proposed merger with BFC may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all, and there are uncertainties and risks to consummating the merger” below for information regarding additional risks relating to the merger. Our future success depends on our ability to market our products successfully and efficiently. We compete for customers with hotel and resort properties and other vacation ownership resorts. The identification of sales prospects and leads, and the marketing of our products to them are essential to our success. We have incurred and will continue to incur the expenses associated with marketing programs in advance of closing sales to the leads that we identify. If our lead identification and marketing efforts do not yield enough leads or we are unable to successfully convert sales leads to sales, we may be unable to recover the expense of our marketing programs and systems and our business would be adversely affected. We may not be successful in increasing or expanding our fee-based services relationships, and our fee-based service activities may not be profitable, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In July 2009, we began offering fee-based marketing, sales, resort management and other services to third-party developers. During 2011, we continued to expand our fee-based service business, which we believe enables us to leverage our expertise in sales and marketing, resort management, mortgage servicing, construction management and title services. We currently intend for our fee-based services to become an increasing portion of our resorts business over time as they generally produce positive cash flow and typically require less capital investment than our traditional vacation ownership business. We have attempted to structure these activities to cover our costs and generate a profit. However, our fee-based services business remains relatively new and we have limited experience in our pricing and operation. In addition, while our fee-based marketing and sales services do not require us to use our receivable credit facility capacity, our clients do typically have to maintain their own receivable-backed credit facilities. Should our clients not be able to maintain said facilities, our fee-based marketing and sales business could be materially adversely impacted. Alternatively, we could attempt to structure other arrangements where we would utilize our receivable credit facilities in order to provide fee-based marketing and sales services, but this would reduce the credit otherwise available to us. In addition, when we perform fee-based sales and marketing services, we sell VOIs in a resort developed by a third party as an interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club. This subjects us to a number of risks typically associated with selling products developed by others under your own brand name, including litigation risks. Additionally, demand for the third party resorts may be below our expectations and the third party developers may not satisfy their obligations. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by performing due diligence on the resorts in which we sell VOIs and by typically performing resort management services at those resorts, we may not be successful in mitigating or managing the risks, which may have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For these and other reasons, certain of which may be beyond our control, there is no assurance that we will be successful in increasing our fee-based services relationships or operating our fee-based services business on a profitable basis, and any failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted if Bluegreen Resorts does not continue to participate in exchange networks or its customers are not satisfied with the networks in which it participates. A VOI owner’s participation in the RCI exchange network allows an owner to exchange their annual VOI for occupancy at participating resorts, based upon availability and the owner payment of a variable exchange fee. During 2011, approximately 6% of our owners utilized the RCI exchange network for an exchange of two or more nights. We also have a joint venture with Shell, called Select Connections™, which currently gives Bluegreen Vacation Club members who acquired or upgraded their VOIs on or after July 1, 2007 access to 23 Shell resorts and provides members of Shell access to Bluegreen Vacation Club resorts. In addition, certain Bluegreen Vacation Club members may use 62 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) their points for a variety of hotel stays, RV site stays within the “Coast to Coast” network, or various cruise vacations. We may not be able to continue to participate in the RCI or Select Connections™ exchange networks at some point in the future. In addition, these networks may not continue to operate effectively, and our customers may not continue to be satisfied with the networks. If any of these events should occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect our business. Based on our experience at our resorts and at destination resorts owned by third parties, we believe that resales of VOIs in the secondary market generally are made at net sales prices below their original customer purchase prices. The relatively lower sales prices are partly attributable to the high marketing and sales costs associated with the initial sales of such VOIs. Accordingly, the initial purchase of a VOI may be less attractive to prospective buyers. Also, buyers who seek to resell their VOIs compete with our efforts to sell our VOIs. While VOI resale clearing houses or brokers currently do not have a material impact on our business, if a secondary market for VOIs were to become more organized and liquid, the resulting availability of resale VOIs at lower prices could adversely affect our sales prices and the number of sales we can close, which in turn would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including the decline in real estate values and the deterioration of real estate sales. Real estate markets are cyclical in nature and highly sensitive to changes in national and regional economic conditions, including: • levels of unemployment; • levels of discretionary disposable income; • levels of consumer confidence; • the availability of financing; • overbuilding or decreases in demand; • interest rates; and • federal, state and local taxation methods. The adverse trends experienced in the real estate market since 2007 have exerted pressure upon us, and particularly our Bluegreen Communities business unit. Low consumer demand for homesites has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on Bluegreen Communities’ operations. Further, while general economic trends have recently shown signs of improvement, a deterioration in general economic conditions or continued adverse conditions in the real estate market would have a material adverse effect on its business. To the extent we decide to acquire more real estate inventory in the future for eventual sale by Bluegreen Resorts, the availability of land for development of resort properties at favorable prices at that time will be critical to our profitability and the ability to cover our significant selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of capital and other expenses. If we are unable to acquire such land or resort properties, at a favorable cost, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. While we believe that the property we have purchased at our adjusted carrying amounts will generate appropriate margins, land prices remain significantly below historical levels, and the projects we acquired prior to or during the recent economic downturn may have been purchased at higher price levels than available in the current market. The profitability of our real estate development activities is also impacted by the cost of construction materials and services. Should the cost of construction materials and services rise, the ultimate cost of our future resorts inventory when developed could increase and have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. Claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We engage third-party contractors to construct our resorts and to develop our communities. However, our customers may assert claims against us for construction defects or other perceived development defects, including, without limitation, structural integrity, the presence of mold as a result of leaks or other defects, water intrusion, asbestos, electrical issues, plumbing issues, road construction, water and sewer defects and defects in the engineering of 63 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) amenities. In addition, certain state and local laws may impose liability on property developers with respect to development defects discovered in the future. We could have to accrue a significant portion of the cost to repair such defects in the quarter when such defects arise or when the repair costs are reasonably estimable. A significant number of claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. Our proposed merger with BFC may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all, and there are uncertainties and risks to consummating the merger. On November 11, 2011, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with BFC pursuant to which, upon the consummation of the merger, we will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of BFC. BFC currently owns approximately 54% of our common stock as well as a controlling interest in BankAtlantic Bancorp and a non-controlling interest in Benihana. Under the terms of the merger agreement, holders of our common stock (other than BFC) will be entitled to receive, in exchange for each share of our common stock that they hold at the effective time of the merger, eight shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock (as adjusted in connection with the reverse stock split expected to be effected by BFC immediately prior to the consummation of the merger). If the merger is consummated, our common stock will no longer be listed for trading on the NYSE or registered under the Exchange Act and our shareholders would instead hold BFC Class A Common Stock. The merger agreement provides for the transaction to be consummated by June 30, 2012, subject to extension to a date no later than September 30, 2012 in the event the parties are proceeding in good faith with respect to the consummation of the merger. However, consummation of the merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, including the approval of both our and BFC’s shareholders, the listing of BFC’s Class A Common Stock on a national securities exchange at the effective time of the merger and the absence of any legal restraints or prohibitions preventing the completion of the merger or litigation or other proceeding seeking to enjoin or prohibit the merger. Following the announcement of our entry into the merger agreement, purported class action lawsuits seeking to enjoin the merger or, if it is completed, to recover relief as determined by the presiding court to be appropriate have been filed. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” In addition to the risks relating to such litigation, including the costs and expenses of defending the actions, we may not be successful in obtaining the required vote of our shareholders, BFC efforts to have its Class A Common Stock listed on a national securities exchange may not be successful, certain other conditions to consummating the merger may not be satisfied or, to the extent permitted by the merger agreement, waived, and as a result thereof or for other reasons, the merger may not be consummated when expected, on the contemplated terms, or at all, in which case we would have incurred significant transaction costs without consummating the transaction. In addition, other risks and uncertainties relating to the merger include, without limitation, that: • our shareholders are subject to the risk of a decline in the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock since the exchange ratio under the merger agreement is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock or our common stock; • if the merger is consummated, our shareholders will be exposed to the risks of the businesses in which BFC has investments; • as a result of BFC’s capital structure pursuant to which BFC’s Class B Common Stock possesses 78% of the general voting power of BFC, if the merger is consummated, it is estimated that, while Bluegreen’s shareholders (other than BFC) will own approximately 60% of BFC’s then-total outstanding common equity, they will in the aggregate possess only approximately 14% of the total voting power of BFC, as compared to the 46% voting interest in our Company which our shareholders (other than BFC) currently possess; • we will incur substantial costs and divert significant management resources in connection with our efforts to complete the merger; • the merger agreement contains restrictions on the conduct of our business until the closing of the merger or the termination of the merger agreement; and • our shareholders are entitled to appraisal rights in connection with the consummation of the merger, and payments made to shareholders who exercise appraisal rights may materially adversely impact the combined company’s cash position following the consummation of the merger. In addition, certain of our outstanding facilities with Wells Fargo and RFA, which had an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately $21.1 million at December 31, 2011, require the prior consent of the lenders to the merger. The Wells Fargo loan ($19.9 million outstanding as of December 31, 2011) is due the earlier of June 30, 2012 or the closing of the merger. RFA has indicated that they intend to consent to the merger, and we are in the process of legal documentation on such consent. 64 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) The proposed sale of Bluegreen Communities may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all, and there are uncertainties and risks to consummating the transaction. On October 12, 2011, a Purchase and Sale Agreement was entered into between seven of our subsidiaries and Southstar. The agreement, as amended, provides for the sale to Southstar of substantially all of the assets that comprise Bluegreen Communities for a purchase price of $29.0 million in cash and an amount equal to 20% of the net proceeds (as calculated in accordance with the terms of the agreement) that Southstar receives upon its sale, if any, of two specified parcels of real estate to be purchased by Southstar under the agreement. The agreement, as amended, provides for the transaction to be consummated no later than April 30, 2012. However, closing of the transaction remains subject to the parties’ receipt of all required consents and certain other customary closing conditions, including the performance by the parties of their respective obligations under the agreement. Accordingly, the transaction may not be consummated when expected, on the contemplated terms, or at all, in which case we would have incurred significant transaction costs without consummating the transaction. Certain of the assets contemplated to be sold in the transaction serve as collateral for Bluegreen’s H4BG Communities Facility, which had an outstanding balance of approximately $23.9 million as of December 31, 2011. Under the terms of the facility, the entire amount of such debt and a $2.0 million deferred fee would be required to be repaid in connection with the consummation of the transaction. In addition, the carrying value of the assets to be sold to Southstar as reflected on our financial statements as of December 31, 2011 was derived from the sale price under the agreement. If the transaction is not consummated on the contemplated terms, or at all, additional losses, which may be significant, may be incurred in the future to the extent that actual sales proceeds from the disposition of assets held for sale are materially different from their estimated fair value. Further, as the transaction is an asset sale, liabilities not assumed by Southstar under the agreement and liabilities related to Bluegreen Communities’ operations prior to the closing of the transaction will be retained by our subsidiaries. The sale process may also divert management’s attention from our other business activities, result in the loss of key employees, result in decreased consumer demand or other unforeseen consequences. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. We may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. In addition, results of audits of our tax returns or those of our subsidiaries may have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition. The federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted extensive regulations that affect the manner in which we market and sell VOIs and homesites and conduct our other business operations. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of VOIs and homesites. Many states, including Florida and South Carolina, where some of our resorts are located, extensively regulate the creation and management of timeshare resorts, the marketing and sale of timeshare properties, the escrow of purchaser funds prior to the completion of construction and closing, the content and use of advertising materials and promotional offers, the delivery of an offering memorandum and the creation and operation of exchange programs and multi-site timeshare plan reservation systems. Moreover, with regard to sales conducted in South Carolina, the closing of real estate and mortgage loan transactions must be conducted under the supervision of an attorney licensed in South Carolina and otherwise in accordance with South Carolina’s Time Sharing Transaction Procedures Act. Most states also have other laws that regulate our activities, such as timeshare project registration laws, real estate licensure laws, mortgage licensure laws, sellers of travel licensure laws, anti-fraud laws, consumer protection laws, telemarketing laws, prize, gift and sweepstakes laws, and consumer credit laws. We currently are authorized to market and sell VOIs and homesites in all states in which our operations are currently conducted. If our agents or employees violate applicable regulations or licensing requirements, their acts or omissions could cause the states where the violations occurred to revoke or refuse to renew our licenses, render our sales contracts void or voidable, or impose fines on us based on past activities. See “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” 65 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) In addition, the federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we conduct business have generally enacted extensive regulations relating to direct marketing and telemarketing, including the federal government’s national “Do Not Call” list. The regulations have impacted our marketing of VOIs, and we have taken steps in an attempt to decrease our dependence on restricted calls. However, these steps have increased and are expected to continue to increase our marketing costs. We cannot predict the impact that these legislative initiatives or any other legislative measures that may be proposed or enacted in the future may have on our marketing strategies and results. Further, from time to time, complaints are filed against us by individuals claiming that they received calls in violation of the regulation. Currently, most states have taxed VOIs as real estate, imposing property taxes that are billed to the respective property owners’ associations that maintain the related resorts and have not sought to impose sales tax upon the sale of the VOI or accommodations tax upon the use of the VOI. From time to time, however, various states have attempted to promulgate new laws or apply existing laws impacting the taxation of vacation ownership interests to require that sales or accommodations taxes be collected. Should new state or local laws be implemented or interpreted to impose sales or accommodations taxes on VOIs, our resorts business could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, consumers file complaints against us in the ordinary course of its business. We could be required to incur significant costs to resolve these complaints or enter into consents with regulators regarding our activities. We may not remain in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, or that violations of applicable laws will not have adverse implications for us, including negative public relations, potential litigation and regulatory sanctions. The expense, negative publicity and potential sanctions associated with any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In addition, there is no assurance that, in the future, VOIs will not be deemed to be securities under federal or state law and therefore subject to applicable securities regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on us due to, among other things, the cost of compliance with such regulations. Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as common law, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including mold, located on, in or emanating from property that we own, lease or operate, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage at such property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our property or to borrow money using such real property or receivables generated from the sale of such real property as collateral. Noncompliance with environmental, health or safety requirements may require us to cease or alter operations at one or more of our properties. Further, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with one or more of our properties. The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact our ability to obtain, renew or extend credit facilities, or otherwise raise capital. Rating agencies from time to time review prior corporate and specific transaction ratings in light of tightened ratings criteria. We have maintained a “B-” corporate credit rating with a “stable” outlook with Standard & Poor’s since December 2010, at which time our corporate credit rating was upgraded from CCC. If rating agencies were to downgrade Bluegreen’s corporate credit ratings, its ability to raise capital and/or issue debt on favorable terms, or at all, and its liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if rating agencies downgraded their original ratings on certain bond classes in our securitizations, holders of such bonds may be required to sell bonds in the marketplace, and such sales could occur at a discount, which could impact the perceived value of the bonds and our ability to sell future bonds on favorable terms or at all. While we are not currently aware of any reasonably likely downgrades to its corporate credit rating or the ratings of bond classes in our securitizations, such ratings changes can occur without advance notice. 66 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Bluegreen) There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. The consolidated financial statements included in the reports we file with the SEC are, and the consolidated financial statements contained herein were, prepared in accordance with GAAP, which involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions. These estimates, judgments and assumptions include, but are not limited to, those related to future cash flows, which in turn are based upon expectations of our performance given current and projected forecasts of the economy in general and the real estate markets. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, including in the event the adverse conditions in the real estate market continue for longer than expected or deteriorate further or if our performance does not otherwise meet its expectations, we may be required to record impairment charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, GAAP requirements as to how certain estimates are made may result, for example, in asset valuations which ultimately would not be realized if we were to attempt to sell the asset. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff, and we may not be successful in doing so. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against BankAtlantic Bancorp and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, who also serves as non-executive Chairman of our Board of Directors, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC and a director of Benihana. The lawsuit alleges violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Levan. While BankAtlantic Bancorp has disclosed that it believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. BFC holds a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. BFC currently directly or indirectly owns approximately 54% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Further, BFC is in a position to control shareholder votes on the election of directors and other matters requiring the approval of holders of a majority of the shares of our issued and outstanding common stock. However, approval of our merger agreement with BFC requires the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66-2/3% of our issued and outstanding common stock. 67 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL SERVICES ACTIVITIES Our Financial Services activities currently consist of the operations of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate public company and its management prepared the following discussion which was included in BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” in the following discussion are references to BankAtlantic Bancorp and its subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, and BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and BankAtlantic’s management and are not references to BFC or Bluegreen. In addition, “Parent Company” refers to BankAtlantic Bancorp, at its parent company level, and BankAtlantic Bancorp’s management. The transaction between BB&T and the Parent Company may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all. On November 1, 2011, the Parent Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement with BB&T, which was amended on March 13, 2012 (which is referred to within the following risk factors as the “Agreement”), which provides for the sale to BB&T of all of the shares of capital stock of BankAtlantic. Consummation of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and the receipt of the regulatory approvals described below, which may not be timely received or may impose conditions unacceptable to the parties. In connection with obtaining the required regulatory approvals to complete the transaction, BankAtlantic submitted notices to and filings with the OCC, and the Parent Company submitted information to and made filings with the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Branch Banking and Trust Company, a subsidiary of BB&T, submitted an application to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”), and the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner Banks and BB&T filed an application with the Federal Reserve and presented the transaction for approval by the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Cease and Desist Orders, BankAtlantic and the Parent Company submitted requests to the OCC and Federal Reserve, respectively, to take certain actions to facilitate the transaction. With the exception of the North Carolina Office of the Commission of Banks, which approved the transaction on March 14, 2012, each of these notices, filings, applications, forms and requests were submitted during December 2011 and were updated as a result of the March 13, 2012 amendment to the Agreement, and are currently under review by the applicable regulatory agency. These regulatory agencies may not grant any required approvals or waivers on a timely basis, or at all. If closing of the transaction is delayed beyond July 31, 2012, either party may cancel the Agreement. Further, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Parent Company is, in connection with the closing, required to fund amounts necessary to pay the outstanding accrued interest on the Company’s trust preferred securities through closing and pays escrow funds for legal fees and expenses of the trustees in connection with the declared defaults and in the Delaware Court of Chancery action and may be required to pay amounts to BB&T depending on the non-CD deposit balances and the shareholders’ equity of BankAtlantic at the closing. If the closing had occurred on December 31, 2011, we would have been required to pay $41.6 million of deferred interest to the holders of the Parent Company’s trust preferred securities. We may not have available liquidity to make such payments and may need to raise funds through equity or debt financings which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. While the consummation of the transaction is anticipated to significantly improve the stockholders’ equity of the Parent Company, the net book value of the assets to be retained by the Parent Company as part of the transaction, including the assets to be retained by the LLC in which we will hold a 5% preferred interest, and all of the residual interests, are subject to impairment, and may not in the future be monetized at the values ascribed to them. The proposed sale of BankAtlantic may create uncertainty, which may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees. If the transaction is not consummated as expected, the Company will again review all strategic alternatives available to it, including a sale of the Company, a sale of BankAtlantic, a sale of its assets and/or the issuance of equity and/or debt securities. These alternatives may not be available on attractive terms or at all. The deferral period on the Company’s outstanding TruPs will end between December 2013 and January 2014, and all accrued interest will be due and payable during the first and second quarters of 2014. If the Company continues to defer interest through December 31, 2013, as anticipated if the transaction is not consummated, the payment due at that time will be approximately $74.4 million based on average interest rates as of December 31, 2011. This amount significantly exceeds the Company’s current market capitalization and, accordingly, any issuance of equity securities is likely to significantly dilute the Company’s shareholders to the extent they do not participate in such offering. Any failure to meet its obligations when due would have a material adverse affect on the Parent Company’s financial condition, results and continuing operations. Further, in the event that the transaction is not consummated, the Parent Company will remain regulated by the Federal Reserve and subject to the Cease and Desist Order described below which requires the 68 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) Parent Company to enhance its capital and the capital of BankAtlantic. See the risk factor captioned, “Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in further regulatory action and/or fines and efforts to comply with the Orders could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations” below for further information regarding the Cease and Desist Orders to which BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic are currently subject. If we complete the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T, our business and operations will change and our financial condition and results of operations will depend on whether the assets to be retained by us in connection with the sale transaction are monetized at or near their current book values. Under the terms of the Agreement with BB&T, BankAtlantic Bancorp will sell BankAtlantic to BB&T, and in connection with the sale, BankAtlantic will distribute to BankAtlantic Bancorp a subsidiary into which BankAtlantic will contribute approximately $175 million in commercial real estate non-accrual loans and real estate owned (based on book values gross of any reserves at January 31, 2012) as well as all rights, claims and judgments relating to previously written off assets (the “Retained Assets”). BankAtlantic Bancorp will also receive in connection with the sale a 5% preferred interest and 100% of the residual interest in another subsidiary (“Newco LLC”) into which BankAtlantic will contribute approximately $424 million of loans and $17 million of real estate owned (based on book values gross of any reserves at January 31, 2012). BB&T will hold the remaining 95% preferred interest in Newco LLC until such time as it has received cash distributions of $285 million plus a priority return of LIBOR plus 2.0% per annum. Following completion of the sale transaction, we expect to focus our operations on managing the Retained Assets and on servicing approximately $73 million of commercial nonaccrual loans to be held by Newco LLC and the assets held by our wholly owned asset workout subsidiary. Our activities in this regard may include renewing, modifying, increasing, extending, refinancing and making protective advances with respect to the assets and participating in the management of real estate development activities. Additionally, based on the timing and volume of cash flows generated in connection with our management of these assets and our interests in Newco LLC, we may in the near-term make short term investments, and over time make investments and engage in various specialty finance activities. Accordingly, our business and operations will differ significantly from our current business and operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the near term, in large part, on our ability to successfully manage and monetize the Retained Assets, the assets currently held in the asset workout subsidiary and the assets in Newco LLC which we have been engaged to service as well as on the cash flow we receive based on our interest in Newco LLC. Further, our financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the longer term on these factors as well as our ability to invest these cash flows and to operate a specialty finance business. If the Retained Assets and the assets contained in Newco LLC are not monetized at or near the current book values ascribed to them, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, and our ability to successfully pursue a specialty finance business could be adversely affected. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in further regulatory action and/or fines and efforts to comply with the Orders could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. On February 23, 2011, the Parent Company entered into a Cease and Desist Order with its primary regulator (the “Company Order”), and BankAtlantic entered into a Cease and Desist Order with its primary regulator (the “Bank Order” and, collectively with the Company Order, the “Orders”). Any material failure by the Parent Company or BankAtlantic to comply with the terms of the Orders could result in additional enforcement actions and/or the imposition of fines. For example, if BankAtlantic does not meet the capital ratio requirements in the Bank Order, BankAtlantic would be required to submit a contingency plan that is acceptable to its regulators and that would detail steps to be taken by BankAtlantic that would lead to a potential sale of BankAtlantic or liquidation. Further, failure to maintain minimum regulatory capital levels could result in further action, which could include the imposition of fines and/or additional enforcement actions. Enforcement actions broadly available to regulators include the issuance of a capital directive, removal of officers and/or directors, institution of proceedings for receivership or conservatorship, and termination of deposit insurance. BankAtlantic would be required to implement the contingency plan upon written notification from its regulators. Further, efforts to comply with the Orders may have material adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company. While the Parent Company has entered into the Agreement to sell BankAtlantic to BB&T and it is expected that the Company Order will be terminated by the Federal Reserve soon after or upon consummation of the transaction, the transaction may not be consummated, in which case the Parent Company would remain subject to the Company Order. 69 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) Our recent financial performance and actions by our regulators, combined with continued capital and credit market volatility, may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company incurred losses of $28.7 million, $143.3 million and $185.8 million during the years ended December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. As part of its efforts to maintain regulatory capital ratios, BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings. However, the reduction of earning asset balances has resulted in reduced income, while at the same time BankAtlantic has experienced significant credit losses. The Parent Company contributed $20 million, $28 million and $105 million to the capital of BankAtlantic during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the Parent Company had $2.5 million of liquid assets. While a wholly-owned work-out subsidiary of the Parent Company also holds a portfolio of approximately $7.3 million of non-performing loans, net of reserves, $2.4 million of performing loans and $9.1 million of real estate owned, in each case as of December 31, 2011, which it could seek to liquidate, the Parent Company’s sources of funds to continue to support BankAtlantic are limited. The Parent Company’s ability to contribute additional capital to BankAtlantic will depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to liquidate its portfolio of non-performing loans and real estate owned. Its ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The entry into the Orders may also make it more difficult to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The Parent Company may not be able to provide additional capital, as needed, to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic may not be able to raise needed capital directly. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to meet the higher capital requirements under the Bank Order would cause BankAtlantic to fail to comply with the Bank Order and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. In light of the need for the Parent Company to be in a position to provide capital to BankAtlantic, as well as the anticipated imposition of capital requirements on thrift holding companies under the Dodd-Frank Act, in the event that the BB&T transaction is not consummated, the Parent Company will continue to evaluate raising additional funds through the issuance of securities. Any such financing could be obtained through additional public offerings, private offerings, in privately negotiated transactions, through a rights offering or otherwise. We could also pursue these financings at the Parent Company level or directly at BankAtlantic or both. Issuances of equity directly at BankAtlantic would dilute the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. During February 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering up to $75 million of our Class A Common Stock and/or other securities in the future. We currently have $44 million remaining on this shelf registration statement. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. The terms and pricing of any future transaction by the Parent Company or BankAtlantic could result in additional substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. As a result, our shareholders bear the risks of future offerings at the Parent Company level reducing the price of our Class A Common Stock, and diluting their holdings in the Company, and future offerings directly at BankAtlantic diluting the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. Additionally, depending on the amount of shares issued in any future offering, the Company’s ability to use its net operating losses to reduce taxable income in future periods may be substantially limited. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the decline in median home prices in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in substantial non-performing assets and provision for loan losses at BankAtlantic over the past three years. The housing industry has been in a prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in an over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted over the past three years as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further in Florida. At December 31, 2011, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $265.4 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. 70 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market have deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2011, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $1.6 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 66% of its loan portfolio. We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential loan portfolio has exposure to further declines in the Florida real estate market. As of December 31, 2011 commercial residential loans totaled $105.1 million. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Parent Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2011 was $8.1 million, including $3.7 million of commercial residential loans. Market conditions have resulted in, and may in the future result in, our commercial residential real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period. Additionally, if the economic environment deteriorates further, collateral values may decline further which likely would result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial real estate loan portfolio are approximately $512.3 million of commercial non-residential and commercial land loans. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial land loans is dependent on the success of the real estate project. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial non-residential loans is dependent upon maintaining tenants through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in real estate market conditions and BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes 8 large lending relationships totaling $211.4 million, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $20 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. The Parent Company has deferred interest on its outstanding junior subordinated debentures and anticipates that it will continue to defer this interest for the foreseeable future, which could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. The Parent Company began deferring interest on all of its $294 million of junior subordinated debentures as of March 2009 which resulted in the deferral and accrual of an aggregate of $42.9 million of regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments that would otherwise have been paid during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The terms of the junior subordinated debentures allow the Parent Company to defer interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods, and the Parent Company anticipates that it will continue to defer such interest for the foreseeable future. During the deferral period, interest continues to accrue on the junior subordinated debentures, as well as on the deferred interest, at the relevant stated coupon rate, and at the end of the deferral period, the Parent Company will be required to pay all interest accrued during the deferral period. In the event that the Parent Company elects to defer interest on its junior subordinated debentures for the full 20 consecutive quarterly periods permitted under the terms of the junior subordinated debentures, the Parent Company would owe approximately $74.4 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2013 (based on average interest rates applicable at December 31, 2011, which were at historically low interest rate levels). As most of the outstanding junior subordinated debentures bear interest at rates that are indexed to LIBOR, if LIBOR rates increase, the interest that would accrue during the deferral period would be significantly higher and likewise increase the amount the Parent Company would owe at the conclusion of the deferral period. While BB&T has agreed to assume BankAtlantic Bancorp’s obligations under the trust preferred securities, under the terms of the Agreement relating to the proposed sale of BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp has agreed to pay all previously deferred interest payments and accrued interest through the closing of the transaction, which was approximately $41.6 million as of December 31, 2011. 71 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) BankAtlantic obtained a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts, and recent legislation designed to limit service charges has reduced our fee income. Historically, BankAtlantic generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income historically was overdraft fees. Changes in banking regulations, in particular the Federal Reserve’s rules prohibiting banks from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, which became effective July 1, 2010, as well as changes in BankAtlantic’s overdraft policies have contributed to a significant reduction in our service charge income during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 and this impact is expected to continue in subsequent periods. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act may further limit the assessment of overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior, modification of our service charge practices as well as increased competition from other financial institutions has also resulted in declines in service charge income. The reduction in deposit account fee income during 2011 had an adverse impact on our earnings and further reductions during 2012 would likewise impact our earnings. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on our operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. Currently, we believe the key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to the thrift supervisory structure, including the elimination of the OTS and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions to the OCC and of thrift holding companies to the Federal Reserve ; • changes to regulatory capital requirements at the holding company level; • creation of new government regulatory agencies; • limitations on federal preemption; • limitations on debit card interchange fees; • changes in insured depository institution regulations; and • mortgage loan origination and risk retention. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Deposit insurance premium assessments may increase substantially, which would adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $9.6 million. BankAtlantic’s prepaid insurance assessment was $12.7 million at December 31, 2011. If the FDIC determines that increased premiums are necessary, BankAtlantic may be required to pay additional FDIC specific assessments or incur increased annual insurance rates which would increase our expenses and adversely impact our results. 72 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) The Parent Company and BankAtlantic are each subject to significant regulation and the Company’s activities and the activities of the Company’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Parent Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and currently has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. However, we may be prevented from engaging in activities, or limited with respect to certain activities, if it is determined that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company, we have not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, it is anticipated that capital requirements will be imposed on savings and loan holding companies in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act may, among other things, eliminate the status of a “savings and loan holding company” and require us to register as a bank holding company, which would subject us to regulatory capital requirements. Further, the regulatory bodies having authority over us may adopt regulations in the future that would affect our operations, including our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic’s management evaluates the collectability of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if BankAtlantic perceives adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. At December 31, 2011, BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses was $129.1 million which represented approximately 5.02% of total loans and 38% of non-performing loans. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $375.5 million of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio consisted of interest-only loans, representing approximately 40% of the total purchased residential loan portfolio. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, these loans have reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. During the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately $49 million of the loans in this portfolio will begin principal amortization. Monthly loan payments also increase if interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increases our exposure to loss. 73 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s non-performing loans totaled $345.3 million and $385.5 million, or 13% and 12% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans and foreclosed real estate) were $436 million and $464 million, or 12% and 10% of our total assets, respectively. In addition, the Company had approximately $34 million and $38 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and real estate market conditions improve, particularly in Florida but also nationally, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans and non-performing assets. We record interest income on non-performing loans on a cash basis and generally incur operating losses associated with real estate owned. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us, which often results in an additional loss. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans and non-performing assets impact our regulators’ view of appropriate capital levels, which was a major contributing factor to the imposition of the Orders. Our regulators will likely require us to maintain enhanced capital levels until, at a minimum, our levels of non-performing loans and assets are substantially reduced. While we seek to manage our nonperforming assets, decreases in the value of these assets or deterioration in our borrowers’ financial condition, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of management time. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its branch network. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida over the past several years has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio. Approximately 74% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices fall, BankAtlantic may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. 74 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in a decrease in interest income relative to interest expense and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, BankAtlantic may not be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to assist it in its efforts to quantify BankAtlantic’s interest rate risk. The model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, management’s efforts may not be successful. BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans are funded by its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets are primarily funded through its customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings, which may not be available in sufficient amounts, or liquidate a portion of its assets, which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. For a further discussion on liquidity, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” BankAtlantic has significantly reduced operating expenses over the past three years and BankAtlantic may not be able to continue to reduce expenses without adversely impacting its operations. BankAtlantic’s operating expenses have declined from $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 to $186 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. BankAtlantic reorganized its operations during this period and significantly reduced operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and seeking to maintain quality customer service. BankAtlantic may not be successful in efforts to further reduce expenses or to maintain its current expense structure. BankAtlantic’s inability to reduce or maintain its current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. Prior to 2009, the Parent Company relied on dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt and pay dividends, but no dividends from BankAtlantic are anticipated or contemplated for the foreseeable future. BankAtlantic has not paid a dividend to the Parent Company since September 2008, and the Bank Order prohibits BankAtlantic from paying dividends to the Parent Company without the prior written non-objection of the OCC. As such, BankAtlantic does not intend to pay dividends to the Parent Company for the foreseeable future. 75 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. The Parent Company, BankAtlantic and their subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings which have resulted in significant non-interest expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include class action securities litigation, litigation which has been brought by the SEC, the Orders, litigation arising out of our banking operations including workouts and foreclosures, potential class actions by customers relating to service and overdraft fees assessed to their accounts, and legal proceedings associated with our tax certificate business and relationships with third party tax certificate ventures. While, based on current information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings for a further discussion regarding the legal proceedings to which the Company is currently subject. Further reductions in BankAtlantic’s assets may adversely affect our earnings and/or operations. BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings in order to improve its liquidity and regulatory capital ratios. The reduction of earning asset balances has reduced our net interest income. Our net interest income was $163.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $125.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The reduction in net interest income from earning asset reductions has previously been offset in part by lower operating expenses in prior periods. Our ability to further reduce expenses without adversely affecting our operations may be limited and as a result, further reductions in our earning asset balances in future periods may adversely affect earnings and/or operations. Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may experience and may continue to be impacted by the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may adversely impact our ability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs, decrease fee income and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. 76 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to competitively market its products and services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Continued asset valuation declines could further increase our credit losses and result in additional impairments of goodwill and other assets. Our loan portfolio subjects us to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, and financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic reviews the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party; however, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. In addition, when deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with customers and counterparties, we often rely on information furnished to us by such customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, and representations of the customers and counterparties that relates to the accuracy and completeness of the information. While we take all actions we deem necessary to ensure the accuracy of the information provided to us, all the information provided to us may not be accurate or we may not successfully identify all information needed to fully assess the risk which may expose us to increased credit risk and counterparty risk. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will continue to be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan, as well as not being in a position to make independent determinations with respect to its interest. Further, the majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. The Company is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in its asset workout subsidiary. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its branches, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary) and its consumer home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as high unemployment rates, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than on similar institutions in markets outside of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC owns shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 75% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s class A and class B common stock representing approximately 71% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A Common Stock and class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and 77 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with our Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of our common stock and our Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. Our Class B Common Stock currently represents less than 1% of our common equity and 47% of our total voting power. As a result, the voting power of our Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of our Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by our Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 97,253 shares of our Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of our Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of our Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of our Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by our Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our charter documents may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of our Class B Common Stock; • the authority of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A Common Stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A Common Stock from the NYSE. The Company’s Class A Common Stock currently trades on the NYSE. Like many other companies involved in the financial services industry over the last several years, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock has experienced a substantial decline. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or, with respect to listed companies with shareholders equity of less than $50 million, the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $50 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. The NYSE’s market capitalization and equity requirements are based on the Company’s publicly traded stock at the holding company level. On April 6, 2011, the Company was notified that its Class A Common Stock did not satisfy one minimum share price standard because, as of March 31, 2011, the average closing price per share of the Company’s Class A Common Stock over the preceding 30 trading day period was $0.98. Under the rules of the NYSE, the Company had a six month period to cure the deficiency, which was accomplished as a result of the one-for-five reverse stock split affected by the Company during October 2011. 78 Table of Contents Risk Factors (Financial Services) On October 21, 2011, the Company received notification that it was below the NYSE’s continued listing criteria because, as of October 14, 2011, the Company’s average market capitalization for the preceding 30-day trading period was $48.9 million. In accordance with the NYSE’s rules, the Company submitted a business plan to the NYSE in which it advised the NYSE of the actions it has taken or expects to take in order to comply with the NYSE’s continued listing standards within 18 months. The Company’s Class A Common Stock will continue to be listed and traded on the NYSE during this period, subject to the NYSE’s acceptance of the business plan, and the Company’s compliance with the business plan and the other continued listing standards of the NYSE. If the Company does not timely regain compliance with the NYSE’s average market capitalization standard and otherwise meet and continue to comply with the requirements for continued listing, then the Company’s Class A Common Stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, the Company would attempt to cause its Class A Common Stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, in such event, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, and it may become more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which could materially and adversely impact the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of skilled individuals. There is intense competition in the financial services industry for qualified employees. We also face increasing competition with businesses outside the financial services industry for the most highly skilled individuals. In addition, our recent losses, reductions in force and other efforts to achieve operating efficiencies as well as the concerns about the transaction to sell BankAtlantic to BB&T and the instability of financial institutions in general may make it more difficult to retain key personnel. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract new employees as needed. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Alan Levan. While the Company believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. In the event Mr. Alan Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of the Company, the Company and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by the continuation of service of other executive officers, including Mr. Abdo, who serves as a director of the Company and Vice Chairman of the Company. 79 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 80 Table of Contents 