ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have in the past incurred cash flow deficits at the BFC parent company (“BFC Parent”) level which we expect will continue in the future. BFC is engaged in making investments in operating businesses. In the past, BFC Parent has not had revenue generating operating activities and has incurred cash flow deficits. We expect to continue to incur cash flow deficits in the foreseeable future. We have financed operating cash flow deficits with available working capital, issuances of equity or debt securities, and with dividends from our subsidiaries, which we have been dependent upon to fund our operations. Currently, BankAtlantic Bancorp is restricted from paying dividends and these restrictions will continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, Bluegreen has historically not paid dividends on its common stock. As a result, if cash flow is not sufficient to fund our operating expenses in the future, we may be forced to continue to reduce operating expenses, to liquidate some of our investments or to seek to fund our operations from the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such financing would be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would not be forced to liquidate our investments at depressed prices. Adverse conditions and events where our investments are currently concentrated or in the industries in which our subsidiaries operate could continue to adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s business, the location of BankAtlantic’s branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and home equity loans, as well as our operations, are concentrated in Florida. The downturn in economic conditions generally and the economy of Florida in particular has adversely impacted our results and operations. Further, Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters, such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The continued impact of the economic downturn, natural disasters or adverse changes in laws or regulations applicable to us or the companies in which we hold investments could impact our operating results and financial condition. These factors may particularly affect the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, the desirability of our properties and the financial condition and performance of our customers. In addition, Bluegreen’s operations, which are primarily conducted within the vacation ownership and real estate industry, have also been adversely impacted by the current economic downturn. The persistence or further deterioration of the current adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our activities and our subsidiaries’ activities are subject to a wide range of regulatory requirements applicable to financial institutions and holding companies, and noncompliance with such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company and BankAtlantic Bancorp are each grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding companies and have broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. However, the OTS, our primary regulator, can stop either of us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as unitary savings and loan holding companies, BFC and BankAtlantic Bancorp are not currently subject to capital requirements. However, it is anticipated that capital requirements will in the future be imposed on savings and loan holding companies. In addition, future regulations may be adopted which may affect BFC’s operations or ability to continue to engage in certain of its current activities. Regulatory restrictions, BankAtlantic’s performance or the terms of indebtedness limit or restrict BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Bluegreen’s ability to pay dividends which may impact our cash flow. At December 31, 2010, we held approximately 52% and 45% of the outstanding common stock of Bluegreen and BankAtlantic Bancorp, respectively. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate publicly traded company whose Board of Directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp are subject to a number of conditions, including the cash flow and profitability of BankAtlantic Bancorp, declaration of dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board of Directors, compliance with the terms of outstanding indebtedness, and regulatory restrictions applicable to BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. Decisions made by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board are not within our control and may not be made in our best interests. On February 23, 37 Table of Contents 2011, BankAtlantic Bancorp entered into the Company Order which, among other things, restricts BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or make any other capital distributions without receiving the prior written non-objection of the OTS. In addition, during February 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp elected to exercise its right to defer payments of interest on its trust preferred junior subordinated debt. BankAtlantic Bancorp is permitted to defer quarterly interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters. During the deferral period, BankAtlantic Bancorp is prohibited from paying dividends to its shareholders, including BFC. While BankAtlantic Bancorp can end the deferral period at any time, BankAtlantic Bancorp has indicated that it anticipates that it may continue to defer such interest payments for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, BFC does not expect to receive dividends from BankAtlantic Bancorp for the foreseeable future. Bluegreen is a separate publicly traded company whose Board of Directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Decisions made by Bluegreen’s Board are not within our control and may not be made in our best interests. Bluegreen has not paid cash dividends during the three years ending December 31, 2010. Future dividends from Bluegreen are subject to approval by Bluegreen’s Board and will depend upon, among other factors, Bluegreen’s results of operations, financial condition and operating and capital needs. Bluegreen may also be limited contractually from paying dividends by the terms of its credit facilities. Accordingly, it is unlikely that BFC will receive dividends from Bluegreen for the foreseeable future. We are subject to the risks faced by the companies in which we currently hold investments. Our primary holdings consist of our direct and indirect investments in BankAtlantic Bancorp, Bluegreen, and Benihana. As a result, we are subject to the risks faced by these companies in their respective industries. Each has been adversely affected by a downturn in the economy, loss of consumer confidence and disruptions in the credit markets. Our current business plan includes a focus on providing strategic support to the companies within our consolidated group, and in which we hold investments. Such support may include further investments in one or more of those companies. Any such additional investments will further expose us to the risks faced by those companies. We will be required to make a cash payment to shareholders of Woodbridge who exercised appraisal rights in connection with our merger. Under Florida law, holders of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock who did not vote to approve our merger with Woodbridge and who properly asserted and exercised their appraisal rights with respect to their shares (“Dissenting Holders”) are entitled to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the fair value of their shares (as determined in accordance with the provisions of Florida law) in lieu of the shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock which they would otherwise have been entitled to receive. Dissenting Holders, who owned in the aggregate approximately 4.6 million shares of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock, provided written notice to Woodbridge regarding their intent to exercise their appraisal rights. In accordance with Florida law, Woodbridge provided written notices and required forms to the Dissenting Holders setting forth, among other things, its determination that the fair value of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock immediately prior to the effectiveness of the merger was $1.10 per share. Dissenting Holders were required to return their appraisal forms by November 10, 2009 and indicate on their appraisal forms whether the Dissenting Holder chose to (i) accept Woodbridge’s offer of $1.10 per share in cash, or (ii) demand payment of the fair value estimate determined by the Dissenting Holder plus interest. As of the date of this filing, one Dissenting Holder which held approximately 400,000 shares of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock had withdrawn its shares from the appraisal rights process, while the remaining Dissenting Holders, who collectively held approximately 4.2 million shares of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock, have rejected Woodbridge’s offer of $1.10 per share and requested payment for their shares based on their respective views of the fair value of Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock prior to the merger. In December 2009, the Company recorded a $4.6 million liability with a corresponding reduction to additional paid-in capital representing, in the aggregate, Woodbridge’s offer to the Dissenting Holders. However, the appraisal rights litigation is currently ongoing and its outcome is uncertain. As a result, there is no assurance as to the amount of cash that will be required to be paid to the Dissenting Holders and such amount may be greater than the $4.6 million that is currently accrued. Any significant increase in the obligation to Dissenting Holders who exercised their appraisal rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries to their respective parent companies may be subject to claims in the future from creditors of the subsidiary. Subsidiaries have in the past and may in the future make dividends or distributions to their parent companies. Dividend payments and other distributions by a subsidiary to its parent company may, in certain circumstances, be 38 Table of Contents subject to claims made by creditors of the subsidiary which made the payment or distribution. Any such claim, if successful, may have a material and adverse impact on the financial condition of the parent company against which the claim was brought. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the SEC, including those included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the amortization /accretion of purchase accounting fair value differences and the future value of goodwill and other intangible assets pursuant to applicable accounting guidance. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future. As a result, our estimates, judgments and assumptions may prove to be incorrect and our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, or our actual results differ from our estimates or assumptions, we may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges, which would be recorded as a charge against our earnings and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Certain members of our Board of Directors and certain of our executive officers are also directors and executive officers of our affiliates. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, are also members of the Boards of Directors and/or executive officers of BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic, Bluegreen and Benihana. Neither Mr. Levan nor Mr. Abdo is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of the Company, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of our affiliates than they devote directly to our operations. Jarett S. Levan, a member of our Board of Directors, is the President of BankAtlantic Bancorp and the Chief Executive Officer of BankAtlantic and a member of the Board of each of them, and D. Keith Cobb, a member of our Board of Directors, is a member of the Boards of Directors of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. Risks Associated with Our Investments in the Restaurant Industry We have an investment in preferred shares of Benihana which are convertible to shares of Benihana’s Common Stock. Benihana operates 97 restaurants in the United States, including 63 Benihana Teppanyaki restaurants, nine Haru sushi restaurants and 25 RA Sushi Bar restaurants. In addition, 23 franchised Benihana teppanyaki restaurants operate in the United States, Latin America and the Caribbean. We also have an investment in Pizza Fusion, a restaurant operator and franchisor engaged in the organic and quick service food industries. As such, we are subject to the risks faced by these companies and the value of our investments will be influenced by the financial performance of these companies. Some of the risk factors common to the restaurant industry which might affect the performance of these companies include: • the current economic downturn has adversely impacted consumer spending patterns and has had negative effects on consumer discretionary spending; • the limited availability and high cost of credit may continue or deteriorate further; • higher than normal food costs may adversely impact our results of operations; • existing or new restaurants may not perform as expected; • the inability to construct new restaurants and remodel existing restaurants within projected budgets and time periods; • increases in the minimum wage; • increases in unemployment; • intense competition in the restaurant industry; • the food service industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which could cause customers to avoid a particular restaurant, result in significant liabilities or litigation costs or damage reputation or brand recognition; and • implementing growth and renovation strategies may strain available resources. 39 Table of Contents In addition, Pizza Fusion is a relatively new company and requires additional financial support in order to continue its operations under its current business plan. Pizza Fusion’s audited financial statements for its fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 included a going concern opinion. We currently have no plans to make a further investment in Pizza Fusion and Pizza Fusion has not recently been successful in raising additional capital. If Pizza Fusion’s business or prospects do not improve, if it is unable to raise required capital to fund its operations or if it otherwise is required to curtail or cease its operations, we may suffer a total loss of our investment in Pizza Fusion. Our portfolio of equity securities and our investments in BankAtlantic Bancorp, Benihana and Bluegreen subjects us to equity pricing risks. Because BankAtlantic Bancorp and Bluegreen are consolidated in the Company’s financial statements, the decline in the market price of their stock would not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, a decline in the market price of the securities of either of these companies would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock and our equity securities are important to our valuation and ability to obtain equity or debt financing. We also have an investment in Benihana Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (“Benihana Preferred Stock”) for which no current market exists (unless converted into Common Stock). The 800,000 shares of Benihana Preferred Stock owned by the Company are convertible into 1,578,943 shares of Benihana Common Stock. At December 31, 2010, if converted, the aggregate market value of such shares would have been $12.6 million. The ability to realize or liquidate this investment will depend on future market and economic conditions, the ability to register our sale of shares of Benihana’s Common Stock in the event of the conversion of our shares of Benihana Convertible Preferred stock and the possible sale of Benihana, all of which are subject to significant risk. Our net operating loss carryforwards that existed at the time of our merger with Woodbridge will be substantially limited. We have experienced and continue to experience net operating losses. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we may utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in certain circumstances to offset future taxable income and to reduce federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. Our merger with Woodbridge, which was consummated on September 21, 2009, resulted in an “ownership change”, as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a result, our ability in the future to use our historic net operating loss carryforwards will be substantially limited, which could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. We believe that BFC may utilize Woodbridge’s net operating loss carryforwards following the merger of the companies on September 21, 2009. Accordingly, in September 2009, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to preserve shareholder value and protect our ability to use Woodbridge’s net operating loss carryforwards by providing a deterrent to holders of less than 5% of our common stock from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in our common stock. However, there is no assurance that the shareholder rights plan will successfully prevent against an “ownership change” or otherwise preserve our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income, nor is there any assurance that we will be in a position to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in the future even if we do not experience an “ownership change.” We may issue additional securities in the future. Other than our commitment to the OTS, there is generally no restriction on our ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over our common stock. Authorized but unissued shares of our capital stock are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Directors, including issuances in connection with acquisitions, and any such issuance may be dilutive to our shareholders. There is also no restriction on the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp or Bluegreen to issue additional capital stock or on Bluegreen’s ability to incur additional indebtedness. Any future securities issuances by BankAtlantic Bancorp or Bluegreen may dilute our economic investment or voting interest in those companies. 40 Table of Contents Our control position may adversely affect the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we owned all of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and approximately 27.3 million shares, or approximately 44%, of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, representing approximately 71% of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s total voting power. Additionally, we own approximately 16.9 million shares, or approximately 52%, of Bluegreen’s issued and outstanding common stock. Accordingly, we hold a controlling position with respect to BankAtlantic Bancorp and Bluegreen and have the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote of the companies, except with respect to BankAtlantic Bancorp in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates separate class votes. Our control position may have an adverse effect on the market prices of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Class A Common Stock and Bluegreen’s common stock. Alan B. Levan And John E. Abdo’s control position may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may be deemed to beneficially own shares of our common stock, including shares that may be acquired pursuant to the exercise of stock options, representing approximately 71.6% of our total voting power. These shares consist of 10,931,215 shares, or 15.9%, of our Class A Common Stock and 6,521,228 shares, or 87.3%, of our Class B Common Stock. Additionally, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo have agreed to vote their shares of our Class B Common Stock in favor of the election of the other to our Board of Directors for so long as they are willing and able to serve as directors of the Company. Further, John E. Abdo has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer certain of his shares of our Class B Common Stock and to obtain the consent of Alan B. Levan prior to the conversion of certain of his shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock. Since our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on most matters, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote (except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class) and to elect the members of our Board of Directors. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Alan B. Levan’s and John E. Abdo’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. The terms of our Articles of Incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class. The Class A Common Stock possesses in the aggregate 22% of the total voting power of all our common stock and the Class B Common Stock possesses in the aggregate the remaining 78% of the total voting power. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,800,000 shares, at which time the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 40% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 60%. If the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,400,000 shares, the Class A Common Stock’s aggregate voting power will increase to 53% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 47%. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 500,000 shares, at which time the fixed voting percentages will be eliminated. These changes in the relative voting power represented by each class of our common stock are based only on the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding. Thus issuances of Class A Common Stock will have no effect on these provisions. If additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued, the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power will widen. While the amendment creating this capital structure was approved by our shareholders, the fixed voting percentage provisions are somewhat unique. If the market does not view this structure favorably, the trading price and market for our Class A Common Stock would be adversely affected. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. 41 Table of Contents We are subject to litigation against BFC and its subsidiaries, and the impact of any finding of liability or damages could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We and our subsidiaries are subject to legal proceedings as described in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this report. While we believe, we have meritorious defenses in the pending legal actions, the ultimate outcomes of these matters are uncertain. Judgments against, or damages, fines or penalties imposed on, us or our subsidiaries in these actions may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. The default by Woodbridge under the terms of its outstanding indebtedness has resulted in acceleration of the debt and may result in a judgment against Woodbridge. A lender with respect to approximately $37.2 million of debt that is collateralized by property owned by Carolina Oak and with respect to which Woodbridge is the obligor previously declared the debt to be in default. Woodbridge disputed the fact that an event of default occurred under the terms of its indebtedness. Through a series of events, the loan was eventually sold to an investor group. The parties have since participated in a court-ordered mediation, agreed to tentative terms to settle the matter and are currently negotiating a formal settlement agreement. It is currently expected that this settlement agreement, if finalized, will provide for (i) Woodbridge to pay $2.5 million to the investor group, (ii) Carolina Oak to convey to the investor group the real property securing the loan via a stipulated foreclosure or deed in lieu, (iii) the investor group to release Woodbridge and Carolina Oak from their obligations relating to the debt or, alternatively, to agree not to pursue certain remedies, including a deficiency judgment, that would otherwise be available them, in each case subject to certain conditions, and (iv) the litigation to be dismissed. There is no assurance that the settlement will be finalized on the contemplated terms, or at all. We are subject to environmental laws related to our real estate activities and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediation or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. Levitt and Sons had surety bonds on most of their projects, some of which were subject to indemnity by Woodbridge. Levitt and Sons had $33.3 million in surety bonds relating to its ongoing projects at the time of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that these obligations are drawn and paid by the surety, Woodbridge could be responsible for up to $7.6 million plus costs and expenses in accordance with the surety indemnity agreements it executed. At December 31, 2010, we had a $0.5 million in surety bonds accrual related to certain Levitt and Sons bonds where management believes it to be probable that Woodbridge will be required to reimburse the surety under applicable indemnity agreements. It is unclear whether and to what extent the remaining outstanding surety bonds of Levitt and Sons will be drawn and the extent to which Woodbridge may be responsible for additional amounts beyond the previous accrued amount. Woodbridge will not receive any repayment, assets or other consideration as recovery of any amounts it may be required to pay. 42 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO BLUEGREEN Bluegreen presents its results in two reportable segments. Bluegreen’s results of operations for the Bluegreen Interim Period are consolidated in BFC Financial Corporation’s financial statements. Bluegreen is a separate public company and its management prepared the following discussion regarding Bluegreen which was included in Bluegreen’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 31, 2011. Accordingly, references to “we”, “us” or “our” in this section are references to Bluegreen and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC, Woodbridge, or BankAtlantic Bancorp. The overall state of the economy, interest rates and the availability of financing affect our ability to market VOIs and residential homesites. Our business has been adversely affected by unfavorable general economic and industry conditions, including high unemployment rates and job insecurity, declines in discretionary spending, housing values and availability of financing, and geopolitical conflicts. If recent recovery trends do not continue or, economic conditions deteriorate, our business and results may be adversely impacted, particularly if financing for us or for our customers is unavailable or if changes in general economic conditions adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed under our notes receivable. Further, because our operations are conducted mainly within the vacation ownership industry, any adverse changes affecting the industry, such as an oversupply of vacation ownership units, a reduction in demand for such units, changes in travel and vacation patterns, changes in governmental regulation of the industry, continued disruptions in the credit markets and unavailability of financing, imposition of increased taxes by governmental authorities, the declaration of bankruptcy and/or credit defaults by other vacation ownership companies and negative publicity for the industry, could also have a material adverse effect on our business. We would incur substantial losses and our liquidity position could be adversely impacted if the customers we finance default on their obligations. Prior to December 15, 2008, we did not perform credit checks on the purchasers of our VOIs in connection with our financing of their purchases. Effective December 15, 2008, we implemented a FICO® score-based credit underwriting program, and we enhanced this credit underwriting program during January 2010. While our loan portfolio originated after December 15, 2008 has experienced defaults at a lower rate than loans originated prior to that date, there is no assurance that our FICO® score-based underwriting standards will result in decreased default rates or otherwise result in the improved performance of our receivables. The conditions in the mortgage industry, including both credit sources as well as borrowers’ financial profiles, have deteriorated in recent years. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 4.8% of our vacation ownership receivables and approximately 11.5% of residential land receivables were more than 30 days past due. Although in many cases we may have recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states have laws that limit our ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans or the cost of doing so may not be justified. Historically, we have generally not pursued such recourse against our customers. In the case of our VOI receivables, if we are unable to collect the defaulted amount due, we traditionally have terminated the customer’s interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club and then remarketed the recovered VOI. Irrespective of our remedy in the event of a default, we cannot recover the marketing, selling and administrative costs associated with the original sale. In addition, we will need to incur such costs again in order to resell the VOI or homesite. In 2010, we recorded charges of approximately $69.7 million to increase our provision for loan losses. If default rates for our borrowers remain at current levels or increase, it may require an increase in the provision for loan losses. In addition, it may cause buyers of, or lenders whose loans are secured by, our VOI notes receivable to reduce the amount of availability under receivables purchase and credit facilities, or to increase the interest costs associated with such facilities. In such an event, the cost of financing may increase and we may not be able to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all, which would adversely affect our earnings, financial position and liquidity. Under the terms of our pledged and receivable sale facilities, we may be required, under certain circumstances, to replace receivables or to pay down the loan to within permitted loan-to-value ratios. Additionally, the terms of our securitization-type transactions i.) require us to repurchase or replace loans if we breach any of the representations and warranties we made at the time we sold the receivables and ii.) include provisions that in the event of defaults by customers in excess of stated thresholds would require substantially all of our cash flow from our retained interest in the receivable portfolios sold to be paid to the parties who purchased the receivables from us. In addition, we guaranteed certain payments under the Legacy Securitization (described in further detail in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Substantially all of the timeshare receivables backing the notes subject to the 43 Table of Contents Legacy Securitization were generated prior to December 15, 2008, when we implemented our FICO score-based credit underwriting program, and relate to loans to borrowers with FICO® scores below 600. While we have attempted to restructure our business to reduce our need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that such restructuring will be successful or that our business and profitability will not otherwise continue to depend on our ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We offer financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to purchasers of our VOIs and homesites. However, we incur selling, marketing and administrative cash expenditures prior to and concurrent with the sale. These costs generally exceed the down payment we receive at the time of the sale. Accordingly, our ability to borrow against or sell the notes receivable we receive from our customers has been a critical factor in our continued liquidity, and we therefore have historically depended on funds from our credit facilities and securitization transactions to finance our operations. The disruption in the credit markets since 2007 has made obtaining additional and replacement external sources of liquidity more difficult and more costly. The number of banks and other finance companies willing to provide “warehouse” lines of credit for timeshare receivables has decreased in recent years. In addition, the term securitization market has become unavailable for extended periods of time in the past. If our pledged receivables facilities terminate or expire and we are unable to extend them or replace them with comparable facilities, or if we are unable to continue to participate in securitization-type transactions and “warehouse” facilities on acceptable terms, our liquidity, cash flow, and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, financing for real estate acquisition and development and the capital markets for corporate debt have been limited. In response to these conditions, during 2008, we adopted initiatives which included limiting sales and encouraging higher down payments on sales, in an attempt to conserve cash. We also have increased our focus on expanding our fee-based service business. However, there is no assurance that our implementation of these initiatives will enhance our financial position or otherwise be successful. If these initiatives do not have their intended results, our financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, notwithstanding our implementation of the initiatives implemented since 2008 to improve our cash position, we anticipate that we will continue to seek and use external sources of liquidity, including funds that we obtain pursuant to additional borrowings under our existing credit facilities, under credit facilities that we may obtain in the future, under securitizations in which we may participate in the future or pursuant to other borrowing arrangements, to: • support our operations; • finance the acquisition and development of VOI inventory and residential land; • finance a substantial percentage of our sales; and • satisfy our debt and other obligations. Our ability to service or to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing (including our ability to consummate future term securitizations) depends on the credit markets and on our future performance, which is subject to a number of factors, including the success of our business, results of operations, leverage, financial condition and business prospects, prevailing interest rates, general economic conditions and perceptions about the residential land and vacation ownership industries. We have approximately $52.4 million of indebtedness which becomes due during 2011. Historically, much of our debt has been renewed or refinanced in the ordinary course of business. But there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient external sources of liquidity on attractive terms, or at all, or otherwise renew, extend or refinance a significant portion of our outstanding debt. Any of these occurrences may have a material and adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to market our products successfully and efficiently. We compete for customers with other hotel and resort properties and vacation ownership resorts. The identification of sales prospects and leads, and the marketing of our products to them are essential to our success. We have incurred and will continue to incur the expenses associated with marketing programs in advance of closing sales to the leads that we identify. If our lead identification and marketing efforts do not yield enough leads or we are unable to successfully convert sales leads to sales, we may be unable to recover the expense of our marketing programs and systems and our business would be adversely affected. 44 Table of Contents We are subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including the decline in real estate values and the deterioration of real estate sales. Real estate markets are cyclical in nature and highly sensitive to changes in national and regional economic conditions, including: • levels of unemployment; • levels of discretionary disposable income; • levels of consumer confidence; • the availability of financing; • overbuilding or decreases in demand; • interest rates; and • federal, state and local taxation methods. The adverse trends experienced in the real estate market since 2007 have exerted pressure upon our Bluegreen Communities and Bluegreen Resorts divisions. Particularly, low consumer demand for homesites has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on Bluegreen Communities’ operations. Further, while general economic trends have recently shown signs of improvement, a deterioration in general economic conditions or continued adverse conditions in the real estate market would have a material adverse effect on our business. To the extent we decide to acquire more real estate inventory in the future for eventual sale by Bluegreen Resorts or Bluegreen Communities, the availability of land at favorable prices at that time will be critical to our profitability and the ability to cover our significant selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of capital and other expenses. If we are unable to acquire such land or, in the case of Bluegreen Resorts, resort properties, at a favorable cost, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. While we believe that the property we have purchased at our adjusted carrying amounts will generate appropriate margins, land prices remain significantly below historical levels, and the projects we acquired prior to or during the recent economic downturn may have been purchased at higher price levels than available in the current market. The profitability of our real estate development activities is also impacted by the cost of construction materials and services. Should the cost of construction materials and services rise, the ultimate cost of our Bluegreen Resorts’ and Bluegreen Communities’ inventories when developed could increase and have a material, adverse impact on our results of operations. We may not be successful in increasing or expanding our fee-based services relationships, and our fee-based service activities may not be profitable, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In July 2009, we began offering fee-based marketing and sales services to third-party developers. During 2010, we continued to expand our fee-based service business, which we believe enables us to leverage our expertise in sales and marketing, resort management, mortgage servicing, construction management and title services. We currently intend for our fee-based services to become an increasing portion of our resorts business over time as they generally produce positive cash flow and typically require less capital investment than our traditional vacation ownership business. We have attempted to structure these activities to cover our costs and generate a profit. However, our fee-based services business remains relatively new and we have limited experience in its pricing and operation. In addition, while our fee-based marketing and sales services do not require us to use our receivable credit facility capacity, our clients do typically have to maintain their own receivable-backed credit facilities. Should our clients not be able to maintain said facilities, our fee-based marketing and sales business could be materially adversely impacted. Alternatively, we could attempt to structure other arrangements where we would utilize our receivable credit facilities in order to provide fee-based marketing and sales services, which would reduce the credit otherwise available to us. In addition, when we perform fee-based sales and marketing services, we sell VOIs in a resort developed by a third party as an interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club. This subjects us to a number of risks typically associated with selling products developed by others under your own brand name, including litigation risks. Additionally, demand for the third party resorts may be below our expectations and the third party developers may not satisfy their obligations. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by performing due diligence on the resorts in which we sell VOIs and by typically performing resort management services at those resorts, there is no assurance that we will be successful in mitigating or managing the risks, which may have a material and adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. For these and 45 Table of Contents other reasons, certain of which may be beyond our control, there is no assurance that we will be successful in increasing our fee-based services relationships or operating our fee-based services business on a profitable basis, and any failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted if Bluegreen Resorts does not continue to participate in exchange networks or its customers are not satisfied with the networks in which it participates. All of our VOI resorts are currently affiliated with RCI, and most of our Club Resorts have been awarded RCI’s highest designation (Gold Crown). A VOI owner’s participation in the RCI exchange network allows an owner to exchange their annual VOI for occupancy at over 4,000 participating resorts, based upon availability and the owner payment of a variable exchange fee. In 2010, approximately 6% of our owners utilized the RCI exchange network for an exchange of two or more nights. We also have a joint venture with Shell, called Select Connections™, which currently gives Bluegreen Vacation Club members who acquired or upgraded their VOIs on or after November 1, 2007 access to 21 Shell resorts and provides members of Shell access to Bluegreen Vacation Club resorts. In addition, certain Bluegreen Vacation Club members may use their points for a variety of hotel stays, RV site stays within the Coast to Coast network, or various cruise vacations. There is no assurance that our resorts will continue to participate in the RCI or Select Connections™ exchange networks in which they currently participate or through which Bluegreen Vacation Club members have access to alternative vacation destinations. There is also no assurance that any or all of these networks will continue to operate effectively or that our customers will continue to be satisfied with the networks. If any of these events should occur, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. Our exploration of strategic alternatives for Bluegreen Communities involves a number of risks. On March 24, 2011, we announced that we had engaged advisors to explore strategic alternatives for Bluegreen Communities, including a possible sale of the division. There is no assurance regarding the timing or success of pursuing any of the alternatives we may consider, or that any such alternatives, if pursued and ultimately consummated, will result in improvements to our financial condition and operating results or otherwise achieve the benefits hoped to be realized from the transaction. Further, the strategic review process may divert management’s attention from our other business activities, result in the loss of key employees, result in decreased consumer demand or other unforeseen consequences. To the extent that additional market information is obtained during the strategic review process which indicates that the carrying value of our Communities’ inventory exceeds its fair value, additional impairment charges relating to the value of the inventory may result. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We engage third-party contractors to construct our resorts and to develop our communities. However, our customers may assert claims against us for construction defects or other perceived development defects, including, without limitation, structural integrity, the presence of mold as a result of leaks or other defects, water intrusion, asbestos, electrical issues, plumbing issues, road construction, water and sewer defects and defects in the engineering of amenities. In addition, certain state and local laws may impose liability on property developers with respect to development defects discovered in the future. We could have to accrue a significant portion of the cost to repair such defects in the quarter when such defects arise or when the repair costs are reasonably estimable. A significant number of claims for development-related defects could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and operating results. The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect our business. Based on our experience at our resorts and at destination resorts owned by third parties, we believe that resales of VOIs generally are made at net sales prices below their original customer purchase prices. The relatively lower sales prices are partly attributable to the high marketing and sales costs associated with the initial sales of such VOIs. Accordingly, the initial purchase of a VOI may be less attractive to prospective buyers. Also, buyers who seek to resell their VOIs compete with our efforts to sell our VOIs. While VOI resale clearing houses or brokers currently do not have a material impact on our business, if a secondary market for VOIs were to become more organized and liquid, the resulting availability of resale VOIs at lower prices could adversely affect our sales prices and the number of sales we can close, which in turn would adversely affect our business and results of operations. 46 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. In addition, results of audits of our tax returns or those of our subsidiaries may have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition. The federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted extensive regulations that affect the manner in which we market and sell VOIs and homesites and conduct our other business operations. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of VOIs and homesites. Many states, including Florida and South Carolina, where some of our resorts are located, extensively regulate the creation and management of timeshare resorts, the marketing and sale of timeshare properties, the escrow of purchaser funds prior to the completion of construction and closing, the content and use of advertising materials and promotional offers, the delivery of an offering memorandum and the creation and operation of exchange programs and multi-site timeshare plan reservation systems. Moreover, with regard to sales conducted in South Carolina, the closing of real estate and mortgage loan transactions must be conducted under the supervision of an attorney licensed in South Carolina and otherwise in accordance with South Carolina’s Time Sharing Transaction Procedures Act. Most states also have other laws that regulate our activities, such as: • timeshare project registration laws; • real estate licensure laws; • mortgage licensure laws; • sellers of travel licensure laws; • anti-fraud laws; • consumer protection laws; • telemarketing laws; • prize, gift and sweepstakes laws; and • consumer credit laws. We currently are authorized to market and sell VOIs and homesites in all states in which our operations are currently conducted. If our agents or employees violate applicable regulations or licensing requirements, their acts or omissions could cause the states where the violations occurred to revoke or refuse to renew our licenses, render our sales contracts void or voidable, or impose fines on us based on past activities. See “Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.” In addition, the federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which we conduct business have generally enacted extensive regulations relating to direct marketing and telemarketing, including the federal government’s national “Do Not Call” list. The regulations have impacted our marketing of VOIs, and we have taken steps in an attempt to decrease our dependence on restricted calls. However, these steps have increased and are expected to continue to increase our marketing costs. We cannot predict the impact that these legislative initiatives or any other legislative measures that may be proposed or enacted in the future may have on our marketing strategies and results. Further, from time to time, complaints are filed against the Company by individuals claiming that they received calls in violation of the regulation. Currently, most states have taxed VOIs as real estate, imposing property taxes that are billed to the respective property owners’ associations that maintain the related resorts and have not sought to impose sales tax upon the sale of the VOI or accommodations tax upon the use of the VOI. From time to time, however, various states have attempted to promulgate new laws or apply existing laws impacting the taxation of vacation ownership interests to require that sales or accommodations taxes be collected. Should new state or local laws be implemented or interpreted to impose sales or accommodations taxes on VOIs, our resorts business could be materially adversely affected. From time to time, consumers file complaints against us in the ordinary course of our business. We could be required to incur significant costs to resolve these complaints or enter into consents with regulators regarding our activities. There is no assurance that we will remain in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, or that violations of applicable laws will not have adverse implications for us, including negative public relations, potential litigation and regulatory sanctions. The expense, negative publicity and potential sanctions associated with any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In addition, there is no assurance that, in the future, VOIs will not be deemed to be securities under federal or state law and therefore subject to applicable securities regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on us due to, among other things, the cost of compliance with such regulations. 47 Table of Contents Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as common law, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including mold, located on, in or emanating from property that we own, lease or operate, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage at such property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease our property or to borrow money using such real property or receivables generated from the sale of such real property as collateral. Noncompliance with environmental, health or safety requirements may require us to cease or alter operations at one or more of our properties. Further, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with one or more of our properties. The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact our ability to obtain, renew, or extend credit facilities, debt, or otherwise raise capital. Rating agencies from time to time review prior corporate and specific transaction ratings in light of tightened ratings criteria. In connection with any decisions by rating agencies to downgrade their original ratings on certain bond classes in our securitizations, holders of such bonds may be required to sell bonds in the market place and such sales could occur at a discount, which could impact the perceived value of such bonds and our ability to sell future bonds at favorable terms, if at all. In addition, if rating agencies were to downgrade our corporate credit ratings, our ability to raise capital and/or issue debt at favorable terms or at all could be adversely impacted. Such a downgrade could materially adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. The consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions. These estimates, judgments and assumptions include, but are not limited to, those related to future cash flows which in turn are based upon expectations of our performance given current and projected forecasts of the economy in general and the real estate markets. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, including in the event the adverse conditions in the real estate market continue for longer than expected or deteriorate further or if our performance does not otherwise meet our expectations, we may be required to record impairment charges against our earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, GAAP requirements as to how certain estimates are made may result, for example, in asset valuations which ultimately would not be realized if we were to attempt to sell the asset. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. BFC Financial Corporation holds a majority of our outstanding common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) beneficially owns 16,922,953 shares, or approximately 52%, of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, BFC is in a position to elect our Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, are also Chairman and Vice Chairman, respectively, of BFC. 48 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO BANKATLANTIC BANCORP AND BANKATLANTIC Financial Services Risk Factors Our Financial Services activities consist of BankAtlantic Bancorp (and its federal savings bank subsidiary, BankAtlantic), whose results of operations are consolidated with BFC. The only assets available to BFC from BankAtlantic Bancorp are dividends when and if declared and paid by BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate public company and its management prepared the following discussion which was included in BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 31, 2011. Accordingly, references to “the Company”, “the Parent Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” in this section under the caption “Financial Services” are references to BankAtlantic Bancorp and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation, Bluegreen Corporation or Woodbridge. Failure to comply with the Cease and Desist Orders could result in further regulatory action and/or fines and efforts to comply with the Orders could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. On February 23, 2011, the Parent Company entered into the Company Order and BankAtlantic entered into the Bank Order with the OTS, the Parent Company’s and BankAtlantic’s primary regulator (See “Business-Recent Developments” for a description of the terms of the Orders). Any material failure by the Company or BankAtlantic to comply with the terms of the Orders could result in additional enforcement actions by the OTS and/or the imposition of fines. For example, if BankAtlantic does not meet the capital ratio requirements in the Bank Order, BankAtlantic would be required to submit a contingency plan that is acceptable to the OTS and that would detail steps to be taken by BankAtlantic that would lead to a potential sale of BankAtlantic. BankAtlantic would be required to implement the contingency plan upon written notification from the OTS. Further, efforts to comply with the Orders may have material adverse effects on the operations and financial condition of the Company. Our recent financial performance and the regulatory actions by the OTS, combined with continued capital and credit market volatility, may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company has incurred losses of $145.5 million, $185.8 million and $202.6 million during the years ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. As part of its efforts to maintain regulatory capital ratios, BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings. However, the reduction of earning asset balances has resulted in reduced income, while at the same time BankAtlantic has experienced significant credit losses. The Parent Company contributed $28 million and $105 million to the capital of BankAtlantic during the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2010, the Parent Company had $12.2 million of liquid assets. While a wholly-owned work-out subsidiary of the Parent Company also holds a portfolio of approximately $13.7 million of non-performing loans, net of reserves, $2.8 million of performing loans and $10.2 million of real estate owned which it could seek to liquidate, the Parent Company’s sources of funds to continue to support BankAtlantic are limited. The Parent Company’s ability to contribute additional capital to BankAtlantic will depend on its ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on its ability to liquidate its portfolio of non-performing loans and real estate owned. Its ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The entry into the Orders may also make it more difficult to raise additional capital. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The Parent Company may not be able to provide additional capital, as needed, to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic may not be able to raise needed capital directly. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to meet the higher capital requirements under the Bank Order would cause BankAtlantic to fail to comply with the Bank Order and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 49 Table of Contents In light of the need for the Parent Company to be in a position to provide capital to BankAtlantic, as well as the anticipated imposition of capital requirements on thrift holding companies under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Parent Company has and will continue to evaluate raising additional funds through the issuance of securities. Any such financing could be obtained through additional public offerings, private offerings, in privately negotiated transactions, through a rights offering or otherwise. We could also pursue these financings at the Parent Company level or directly at BankAtlantic or both. Issuances of equity directly at BankAtlantic would dilute the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. During February 2010, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC registering up to $75 million of our Class A Common Stock and/or other securities in the future. We currently have $55 million remaining on this shelf registration statement. Additionally, in September 2010, the Parent Company filed a separate registration statement on Form S-1 with the SEC for registering $125 million of Class A Common Stock. The Form S-1 registration statement has not yet been declared effective. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. The terms and pricing of any future transaction by the Parent Company or BankAtlantic could result in additional substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. As a result, our shareholders bear the risks of future offerings at the Parent Company level reducing the price of our Class A Common Stock, and diluting their holdings in the Company, and future offerings directly at BankAtlantic diluting the Parent Company’s interest in BankAtlantic. Additionally, depending on the amount of shares issued in any future offering, the Company’s ability to use its NOLs in future periods may be substantially limited. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The continued deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the continued decline in median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in a substantial increase in BankAtlantic’s non-performing assets and provision for loan losses over the past three years. The housing industry has been in a substantial and prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the deteriorating condition of the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted over the past three years as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further in Florida. At December 31, 2010, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $305.7 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us very susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market have deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2010, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.1 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 64% of its loan portfolio. We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential loan portfolio has exposure to further declines in the Florida real estate market. As of December 31, 2010: (i) the “builder land bank loan” category held by BankAtlantic consisted of 4 loans aggregating $10.6 million, all of which were on non-accrual; (ii) the “land acquisition and development loan” category held by BankAtlantic consisted of 24 loans aggregating $118.8 million, of which thirteen loans totaling $61.9 million were on non-accrual; (iii) the “land acquisition, development and construction loan” category held by BankAtlantic consisted of 3 loans aggregating $3.5 million, none of which were on non-accrual. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Parent Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2010 was $14.5 million, including $3.7 million, $3.6 million and $1.6 million of “builder land bank loans”, “land acquisition and development loans”, and “land acquisition, development and construction loans”, respectively. 50 Table of Contents Market conditions have resulted in, and may in the future result in, our commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current depressed economic environment continues or deteriorates further, collateral values may decline further which likely would result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial and construction and development real estate loan portfolio are approximately $781.6 million of commercial non-residential and commercial land loans. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial land loans is dependent on the success of the real estate project. A borrower’s ability to repay commercial non-residential loans is dependent upon maintaining tenants through the life of the loan or the borrower’s successful operation of a business. Weak economic conditions may impair a borrower’s business operations and typically slow the execution of new leases. Such economic conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. As a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space are expected to continue to rise in 2011 which could result in falling rents. The combination of these factors could result in further deterioration in real estate market conditions and BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes 10 large lending relationships totaling $266 million, including relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $20 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. The Parent Company has deferred interest on its outstanding junior subordinated debentures and anticipates that it will continue to defer this interest for the foreseeable future, which could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity. The Parent Company began deferring interest on all of its $294 million of junior subordinated debentures as of March 2009 which resulted in the deferral and accrual of $28.2 million of regularly scheduled quarterly interest payments that would otherwise have been paid during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The terms of the junior subordinated debentures allow the Parent Company to defer interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarterly periods, and the Parent Company anticipates that it will continue to defer such interest for the foreseeable future. During the deferral period, interest continues to accrue on the junior subordinated debentures, as well as on the deferred interest, at the relevant stated coupon rate, and at the end of the deferral period, the Parent Company will be required to pay all interest accrued during the deferral period. In the event that the Parent Company elects to defer interest on its junior subordinated debentures for the full 20 consecutive quarterly periods permitted under the terms of the junior subordinated debentures, the Parent Company would owe approximately $74 million of accrued interest as of December 31, 2013 (based on average interest rates applicable at December 31, 2010, which were at historically low interest rate levels). As most of the outstanding junior subordinated debentures bear interest at rates that are indexed to LIBOR, if LIBOR rates increase, the interest that would accrue during the deferral period would be significantly higher and likewise increase the amount the Parent Company would owe at the conclusion of the deferral period. BankAtlantic obtained a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts, and recent legislation designed to limit service charges could reduce our fee income. BankAtlantic’s deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income historically has been overdraft fees. Changes in banking regulations, in particular the Federal Reserve’s new rules prohibiting banks from automatically enrolling customers in overdraft protection programs, which became effective July 1, 2010, had a significant adverse impact on our service charge income during the year ended December 31, 2010 and this impact is expected to continue in 2011. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act has established a consumer protection agency which may further limit the assessment of overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior, modification of our service charge practices as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could also result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Further, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in the inability to collect overdraft fees. The reduction in deposit account fee income during 2010 had an adverse impact on our earnings and further reductions during 2011 would likewise impact our earnings. 51 Table of Contents The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 may have a material effect on our operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, which imposes significant regulatory and compliance changes. Currently, we believe the key effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business are: • changes to the thrift supervisory structure, including the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions to the OCC; • changes to regulatory capital requirements at the holding company level; • creation of new government regulatory agencies; • limitations on federal preemption; • limitations on debit card interchange fees; • changes in insured depository institution regulations; and • mortgage loan origination and risk retention. Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain subject to regulatory rulemaking and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. As a result, it is difficult to gauge the ultimate impact of certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act because the implementation of many concepts is left to regulatory agencies. For example, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) is given the power to adopt new regulations to protect consumers and is given control over existing consumer protection regulations adopted by federal banking regulators. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with the new requirements or with any future changes in laws or regulations may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. See “Regulation of Federal Savings Associations-BankAtlantic-The Dodd-Frank Act” for a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act. Deposit insurance premium assessments may increase substantially, which would adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $10.1 million. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. In addition, BankAtlantic’s annual insurance rates are expected to increase in 2011 based on the results of its latest regulatory risk profile. BankAtlantic’s prepaid insurance assessment was $22.0 million at December 31, 2010. If the economy worsens and the number of bank failures significantly increase, or if the FDIC otherwise determines that increased premiums are necessary, BankAtlantic may be required to pay additional FDIC specific assessments or incur increased annual insurance rates which would increase our expenses and adversely impact our results. The Parent Company and BankAtlantic are each subject to significant regulation and the Company’s activities and the activities of the Company’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Parent Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS, among other things, can prevent us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company, we have not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, capital requirements may be imposed on savings and loan holding companies in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act may, among other things, eliminate the status of a “savings and loan holding company” and require us to register as a bank holding company, which would subject us to regulatory capital requirements. Further, the regulatory bodies having authority over us may adopt regulations in the future that would affect our operations, including our ability to engage in certain transactions or activities. 52 Table of Contents An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic’s management evaluates the collectability of BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if BankAtlantic perceives adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. At December 31, 2010, BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses was $161.3 million which represented approximately 5.08% of total loans and 43.5% of non-performing loans. BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $550.2 million of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio consisted of interest-only loans, representing approximately 45% of the total purchased residential loan portfolio. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, these loans have reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately $52.1 million of the loans in this portfolio will begin principal amortization. Monthly loan payments also increase if interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increases our exposure to loss. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s non-performing loans totaled $385.5 million and $331.0 million, or 12.0% and 9.0% of our loan portfolio, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company’s non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans and foreclosed real estate) were $463.6 million and $379.7 million, or 10.3% and 7.9% of our total assets, respectively. In addition, the Company had approximately $38.2 million and $72.9 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and real estate market conditions improve, particularly in Florida but also nationally, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans and non-performing assets. We generally do not record interest income on non-performing loans or real estate owned. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us, which often results in an additional loss. These loans and real estate owned also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans and non-performing assets impact our regulators’ view of appropriate capital levels, which was the major contributing factor to the imposition by the OTS of the Orders. Our regulators will likely require us to maintain enhanced capital levels until, at a minimum, our levels of non-performing loans and assets are substantially reduced. While we seek to manage our nonperforming assets, decreases in the value of these assets or 53 Table of Contents deterioration in our borrowers’ financial condition, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of management time. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its branch network. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida has, over the past three years, resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve significantly in the near term. Approximately 74% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices continue to fall, BankAtlantic may continue to experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, BankAtlantic may not be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. 54 Table of Contents In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to assist it in its efforts to quantify BankAtlantic’s interest rate risk. The model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, management’s efforts may not be successful. BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans are funded by its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets are primarily funded through its customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings, which may not be available in sufficient amounts, or liquidate a portion of its assets, which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. For a further discussion on liquidity, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” BankAtlantic has significantly reduced operating expenses over the past three years and BankAtlantic may not be able to continue to reduce expenses without adversely impacting its operations. BankAtlantic’s operating expenses have declined from $330.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to $236.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. BankAtlantic reorganized its operations during this period and significantly reduced operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and seeking to maintain quality customer service. While management is focused on reducing overall expenses, BankAtlantic may not be successful in efforts to further reduce expenses or to maintain its current expense structure. BankAtlantic’s inability to reduce or maintain its current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. Prior to 2009, the Parent Company relied on dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt and pay dividends, but no dividends from BankAtlantic are anticipated or contemplated for the foreseeable future. BankAtlantic has not paid a dividend to the Parent Company since September 2008 and the Bank Order prohibits BankAtlantic from paying dividends to the Parent Company without the prior written non-objection of the OTS. As such, BankAtlantic does not intend to pay dividends to the Parent Company for the foreseeable future. For a further discussion refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact our results of operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic and their subsidiaries are currently parties in ongoing litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings which have resulted in a significant increase in non-interest expense relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include class action securities litigation, an SEC investigation, the Orders and an overdraft fee investigation, as well as litigation arising out of our banking operations including workouts and foreclosures, potential class actions by customers relating to service and overdraft fees assessed to their accounts, and legal proceedings associated with our tax certificate business and relationships with third party tax certificate ventures. While, based on current information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs as parties to the actions and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. Additionally, our insurance carrier for claims under our director and officer liability insurance denied insurance coverage for the class action securities litigation on the grounds that the jury found intentional wrongful acts by certain senior executive officers of the Company. While the Company disputes the validity of the denial of coverage, the Company does not expect to receive additional reimbursements for litigation costs associated with class action securities litigation unless it is successful in contesting the denial of insurance coverage. The insurer and the Company have agreed to a tolling agreement where neither party will take legal action related to the insurance coverage dispute through September 1, 2011 or a later date if extended. As such, if the Company is not successful in the appeals process, a potential securities litigation unfavorable judgment could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. 55 Table of Contents Further reductions in BankAtlantic’s assets may adversely affect our earnings and/or operations. BankAtlantic has reduced its assets and repaid borrowings in order to improve its liquidity and regulatory capital ratios. The reduction of earning asset balances has reduced our net interest income. Our net interest income was $163.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $151.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The reduction in net interest income from earning asset reductions has previously been offset by lower operating expenses in prior periods. Our ability to further reduce expenses without adversely affecting our operations may be limited and as a result, further reductions in our earning asset balances in future periods may adversely affect earnings and/or operations. Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continuing economic deterioration that affects household and/or corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may continue to decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, and increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs, decrease fee income and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of investment banks into bank holding companies may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to competitively market its products and services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Continued asset valuation declines could adversely impact our credit losses and result in additional impairments of goodwill and other assets. Our loan portfolio subjects us to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit, and financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic reviews the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party; however, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. In addition, when deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other 56 Table of Contents transactions with customers and counterparties, we often rely on information furnished to us by such customers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information, and representations of the customers and counterparties that relates to the accuracy and completeness of the information. While we take all actions we deem necessary to ensure the accuracy of the information provided to us, all the information provided to us may not be accurate or we may not successfully identify all information needed to fully assess the risk which may expose us to increased credit risk and counterparty risk. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will continue to be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan, as well as not being in a position to make independent determinations with respect to its interest. Further, the majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. The Company is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in its asset workout subsidiary. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary) and its consumer home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks as increasing unemployment, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than on similar institutions in markets outside of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans and the value of any collateral held by us, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. As of December 31, 2010, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 27,333,428 shares, or approximately 43%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 71% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 71.6% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with our Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of all of our common stock and our Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. Our Class B Common Stock currently represents approximately 2% of our common equity and 47% of our total voting power. As a result, the voting power of our Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of our Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by our Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as 57 Table of Contents BFC and its affiliates own less than 487,613 shares of our Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of our Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of our Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of our Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by our Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of our Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our charter documents may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: • the provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of our Class B Common Stock; • the authority of our board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors with three-year staggered terms; and • advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A Common Stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A Common Stock from the New York Stock Exchange. The Company’s Class A Common Stock currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange. Like many other companies involved in the financial services industry over the last several years, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock has experienced a substantial decline. A listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $15 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. As of February 28, 2011, the average market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock over the prior 30 trading day period was approximately $1.06, and the Company’s average market capitalization over that period was approximately $65 million. However, the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock is subject to significant volatility and it may decrease in the future so as to cause the Company not to comply with the New York Stock Exchange’s requirement for continued listing. If the Company does not meet the requirements for continued listing, then the Company’s Class A Common Stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, the Company would attempt to cause its Class A Common Stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, in such event, the trading price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A Common Stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, and it may become more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 58 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 59 Table of Contents 