ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have in the past incurred cash flow deficits that we expect will continue in the future. BFC is a holding company engaged in making investments in operating businesses which has no revenue generating operating activities. Accordingly, we have in the past incurred cash flow deficits at the BFC parent company level and expect to continue to do so in the foreseeable future. We incurred operating and investing cash flow deficits of $5.9 million and $2.5 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2008. We have financed these operating cash flow deficits with available working capital. At December 31, 2008, BFC’s cash and cash equivalents balance was approximately $9.7 million. Since our business strategy involves primarily holding long-term investments and neither BankAtlantic Bancorp nor Woodbridge is expected to declare dividends to its common shareholders in 2009, our investments made are not expected to generate cash flow to BFC in the near term. As a result, if cash flow is not sufficient to fund our operating expenses in the future, we may be forced to reduce operating expenses, to liquidate some of our investments or to seek to fund the expenses from the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. There is no assurance that any such financing would be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or that we would not be forced to liquidate our investments at depressed prices. Adverse conditions and events where our investments are currently concentrated could continue to adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s business, the location of BankAtlantic’s branches and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans are concentrated in Florida. Further, Woodbridge’s operations are concentrated in Florida and South Carolina. Economic conditions generally, and the economies of both Florida and South Carolina in particular have adversely impacted the results and prospects of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Woodbridge. Further each of the states is subject to the risks of natural disasters, such as tropical storms and hurricanes. The continued impact of the economic downturn, natural disaster or adverse changes in laws or regulations applicable to the companies could impact the credit quality of BankAtlantic’s assets, the desirability of Woodbridge’s properties, the financial performance of Woodbridge’s and BankAtlantic’s customers and the overall success of Woodbridge and BankAtlantic. Regulatory restrictions, bank performance and the terms of indebtedness limit or restrict BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends which may impact our cash flow. At December 31, 2008, we held approximately 30% of the outstanding common stock of BankAtlantic Bancorp. Dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp are subject to a number of conditions, including the cash flow and profitability of BankAtlantic Bancorp, declaration of dividends by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board of Directors, compliance with the terms of outstanding indebtedness, and regulatory restrictions applicable to BankAtlantic. For the year 2008, we received $208,000 in dividends from BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate publicly traded company whose Board of Directors includes a majority of independent directors as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. Decisions made by BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Board are not within our control and may not be made in our best interests. The declaration and payment of dividends and the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp to meet its debt service obligations will depend upon adequate cash holdings, which are driven by the results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements of BankAtlantic Bancorp, and the ability of BankAtlantic to pay dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp. The ability of BankAtlantic to pay dividends or make other distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to regulations and Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”) approval and is based upon BankAtlantic’s regulatory capital levels and net income. Due to BankAtlantic’s recent net losses, BankAtlantic has decided to suspend dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp. In addition, if BankAtlantic participates in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, its ability to pay dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp in the future will be subject to the restrictions contained in that program. In February 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp elected to exercise its right to defer payments of interest on its trust preferred junior subordinated debt. BankAtlantic Bancorp is permitted to defer 37 Table of Contents quarterly interest payments for up to 20 consecutive quarters. During the deferral period, BankAtlantic Bancorp will not pay dividends to its common shareholders. BankAtlantic Bancorp can end the deferral period at any time. Accordingly, BFC does not expect to receive dividends from BankAtlantic Bancorp during 2009. Restrictions, operating performance and the terms of indebtedness limit the ability for Woodbridge to pay dividends, which may impact our cash flow. Woodbridge paid a quarterly dividend in the first quarter of 2007 of $0.02 per share on its Class A and Class B common stock. This resulted in the Company receiving approximately $66,000 during the three months ended March 31, 2007. However, Woodbridge has not paid any dividends on its Class A or Class B common stock since the first quarter of 2007, and the Company does not anticipate that it will be receiving additional dividends from Woodbridge for the foreseeable future based on current economic conditions and the conditions of the real estate market. Woodbridge may also be limited contractually from paying dividends by the terms of its outstanding indebtedness. Future dividends from Woodbridge are subject to approval by Woodbridge’s Board of Directors (a majority of whom are independent directors) and will depend upon, among other factors, Woodbridge’s results of operations and financial condition. Our activities and our subsidiaries’ activities are subject to a wide range of regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Company and BankAtlantic Bancorp are each grandfathered unitary savings and loan holding companies and have broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. However, the OTS can stop either of us from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to BankAtlantic Bancorp; • limit transactions between us, BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit the activities of BankAtlantic, BankAtlantic Bancorp or us; or • impose capital requirements on us or BankAtlantic Bancorp. In addition, unlike bank holding companies, as unitary savings and loan holding companies, BFC and BankAtlantic Bancorp are not currently subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may also in the future adopt regulations that would affect BankAtlantic Bancorp’s operations, including BankAtlantic Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See Financial Services “Regulation and Supervision.” Certain members of our Board of Directors and certain of our executive officers are also directors and executive officers of our affiliates. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, are also members of the Boards of Directors and/or executive officers of BankAtlantic Bancorp, BankAtlantic, Woodbridge, Bluegreen and Benihana. Neither Mr. Levan nor Mr. Abdo is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of the Company, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of our affiliates than they devote directly to our operations. Additionally, D. Keith Cobb, a member of our Board of Directors is a member of the Board of Directors of BankAtlantic Bancorp and BankAtlantic. 38 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Our Investment in Benihana and the Restaurant Industry We have an investment in preferred shares of Benihana which are convertible to shares of Benihana’s Common Stock. As such, the value of our investment will be influenced by the market performance of Benihana’s Common Stock. Some of the risk factors common to the restaurant industry which might affect the performance of Benihana are as follows: • general economic conditions, and the disruptions in the financial markets which have adversely impacted consumer spending patterns and the availability and cost of credit may continue to impact Benihana or deteriorate further; • the failure of existing or new restaurants to perform as expected; • The inability to construct new restaurants and remodel existing restaurants within projected budgets and time periods; • increases in the minimum wage; • intense competition in the restaurant industry; • the food service industry is affected by litigation and publicity concerning food quality, health and other issues, which could cause customers to avoid a particular restaurant, result in significant liabilities or litigation costs or damage reputation or brand recognition; and • Implementing growth and renovation strategies may strain available resources. Issuance of Additional Securities In The Future. There is generally no restriction on our ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over our Class A Common Stock. Likewise, there is also no restriction on the ability of BankAtlantic Bancorp or Woodbridge to issue additional capital stock or incur additional indebtedness. Authorized but unissued shares of our capital stock are available for issuance from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Directors, including issuances in connection with acquisitions. Our portfolio of equity securities and our investments in BankAtlantic Bancorp and Woodbridge subjects us to equity pricing risks. Because BankAtlantic Bancorp and Woodbridge are consolidated in the Company’s financial statements, the decline in the market price of their stock would not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements. However, the continued decline in the market price of either of these securities would likely have an effect on the market price of our common stock and the market price of our common stock and our directly held equity securities are important to the valuation and financing capability of BFC. Also, we have an investment in Benihana Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (“Benihana Preferred Stock”) for which no current market is available (unless converted into common stock). The 800,000 shares of Benihana Series B Convertible Preferred Stock owned by the Company are convertible into 1,578,943 shares of Benihana Common Stock. At December 31, 2008, if converted, the aggregate market value of such shares would have been $3.3 million. The ability to realize or liquidate these investments will depend on future market and economic conditions and the ability to register the shares of Benihana’s common stock in the event of the conversion of our shares of Benihana Series B Convertible Preferred stock, all of which are subject to significant risk. 39 Table of Contents Our control position may adversely affect the market price of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock. As of December 31, 2008, we owned all of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 2,389,697 shares or approximately 23% of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, and we owned all of Woodbridge’s issued and outstanding Class B Common Stock and 3,735,392 shares, or approximately 22% of Woodbridge’s issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. Our share holdings in BankAtlantic Bancorp represent approximately 59% of its total voting power, and our share holdings in Woodbridge represent approximately 59% of its total voting power. Since the Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock of each of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Woodbridge vote as a single group on most matters, we are in a position to control BankAtlantic Bancorp and Woodbridge and elect BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Woodbridge’s Boards of Directors. As a consequence, we have the voting power to significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote of BankAtlantic Bancorp and Woodbridge, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates separate class votes. Our control position may have an adverse effect on the market prices of BankAtlantic Bancorp’s and Woodbridge’s Class A Common Stock. Alan B. Levan And John E. Abdo’s Control Position May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. Alan B. Levan, our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, may be deemed to have beneficially owned, at December 31, 2008, approximately 23% and 14%, respectively, of the outstanding shares of our total common stock. Collectively, these shares represented approximately 74% of our total voting power at December 31, 2008. Additionally, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo have agreed to vote their shares of our Class B common stock in favor of the election of the other to our Board of Directors for so long as they are willing and able to serve as directors of the Company. Further, John E. Abdo has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer certain of his shares of our Class B Common Stock and to obtain the consent of Alan B. Levan prior to the conversion of certain of his shares of our Class B common stock into shares of our Class A Common Stock. Since our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on most matters, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote and elect the members of our Board of Directors. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo’s control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A common stock vote as a separate class. Alan B. Levan’s and John E. Abdo’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. The terms of our articles of incorporation, which establish fixed relative voting percentages between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, may not be well accepted by the market. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class. The Class A Common Stock possesses in the aggregate 22% of the total voting power of all our common stock and the Class B Common Stock possess in the aggregate the remaining 78% of the total voting power. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,800,000 shares, at which time the Class A Common Stock aggregate voting power will change to 40% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 60%. If the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 1,400,000 shares, the Class A Common Stock aggregate voting power will change to 53% and the Class B Common Stock will have the remaining 47%. These relative voting percentages will remain fixed unless the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding decreases to 500,000 shares, at which time the fixed voting percentages will be eliminated. These changes in the relative voting power represented by each class of our common stock are based only on the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding, thus issuances of Class A Common Stock will have no effect on these provisions. If additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued, it is likely that the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power will widen. While the amendment creating this capital structure was approved by our shareholders, the fixed voting percentage provisions are somewhat unique. If the market does not sufficiently accept this structure, the trading price and market for our Class A Common Stock would be adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) Financial Services Risk Factors Our Financial Services activities consist of BankAtlantic Bancorp results of operations, which is consolidated with BFC Financial Corporation. The only assets available to BFC Financial Corporation from BankAtlantic Bancorp are dividends when and if declared and paid by BankAtlantic Bancorp. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a separate public company and its management prepared the following Item 1A. Risk Factors regarding BankAtlantic Bancorp which was included in BankAtlantic Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us” , “our” or “Parent Company” in the following discussion under the caption “Financial Services” are references to BankAtlantic Bancorp and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation. Adverse market conditions have affected and may continue to affect the financial services industry as well as our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing market and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments at all financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional and community financial institutions including BankAtlantic. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The continuing economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficult conditions in the financial markets and real estate markets are not expected to improve in the foreseeable future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on BankAtlantic and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • BankAtlantic’s borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans may decrease which could result in increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which would increase levels of non-performing loans resulting in significant credit losses, increased expenses and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions or government entities. • Increased regulation of the industry may increase costs and limit BankAtlantic’s activities and operations. • Increased competition among financial services companies based on the recent consolidation of competing financial institutions and the conversion of investment banks into bank holding companies, may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to market its products and services. • BankAtlantic may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit premiums and assessments. • Consumer confidence in the financial industry has weakened and individual wealth has deteriorated, which could lead to declines in deposits and impact liquidity. • Continued asset valuation declines could adversely impact our credit losses and result in additional goodwill and other asset impairments. 41 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) There can be no assurance that recent steps taken by Congress, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (the “EESA”). The legislation was in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Department of Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury has made senior preferred stock investments in participating financial institutions. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, pursuant to which, under the systemic risk exception to the Federal Deposit Act (the “FDA”), the FDIC has offered a guarantee of certain financial institution indebtedness in exchange for an insurance premium payment made to the FDIC by the participating financial institution. On February 10, 2009, the Treasury announced a new comprehensive financial stability plan (the “Financial Stability Plan”), which earmarked the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions participating in the CPP. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following EESA, the Financial Stability Plan and ARRA by the Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector and other programs being developed. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that these government initiatives will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of market volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of these government initiatives to stabilize the financial markets, or a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions, could materially and adversely affect BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition, results of operations and access to credit. Any such failure may also adversely impact the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock. In addition, the EESA, ARRA and the Financial Stability Plan are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabilize the credit markets or on BankAtlantic’s business, financial condition or results of operations. As previously announced, the Company and BankAtlantic filed an application to participate in the CPP. The United States Treasury had not, as of March 16, 2009, acted on the application and such application may not be approved. Further, the Company’s decision to defer quarterly payment of interest on its outstanding trust preferred junior subordinated debentures may adversely impact our application to receive funds under the CPP. 42 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) The impact on us of recently enacted legislation, in particular the EESA and its implementing regulations, and actions by the FDIC, cannot be predicted at this time. The programs established or to be established under the EESA and Troubled Asset Relief Program may have adverse effects upon us. Our industry may be subject to increased regulation, and compliance with such regulations may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. For example, if we participate in the CPP, our ability to make dividend payments or to repurchase our common stock will be limited and subject to the restrictions contained in that program for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding. It will also subject us to additional executive compensation restrictions. Similarly, programs established by the FDIC under the systemic risk exception of the FDA, may have an adverse effect on us and we anticipate that the cost of FDIC premiums will increase. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The continued deterioration of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the continued decline in home sales and median home prices year-over-year in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the recent downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in a substantial increase in non-performing assets and BankAtlantic’s provision for loan losses. The housing industry is in the midst of a substantial and prolonged downturn reflecting, in part, decreased availability of mortgage financing for residential home buyers, reduced demand for new construction resulting in a significant over-supply of housing inventory and increased foreclosure rates. Additionally, the deteriorating condition of the Florida economy and these adverse market conditions have negatively impacted the commercial non-residential real estate market. BankAtlantic’s earnings and financial condition were adversely impacted during 2008 as the majority of its loans are secured by real estate in Florida. We expect that our earnings and financial condition will continue to be unfavorably impacted if market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further. At December 31, 2008, BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $208.1 million of non-accrual loans concentrated in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate lending which makes us more susceptible to credit losses given the current depressed real estate market. The national real estate market declined significantly during 2007 and 2008, particularly in Florida, BankAtlantic’s primary lending area. BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (virtually all of which are located in Florida and many of which involve residential land development), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (throughout BankAtlantic’s markets in Florida). BankAtlantic has a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2008 BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio included $2.7 billion of loans concentrated in Florida, which represented approximately 60% of its loan portfolio. We believe that BankAtlantic’s commercial residential development loan portfolio has significant exposure to further declines in the Florida residential real estate market. The “builder land bank loan” category consists of 7 loans and aggregates $62.4 million of which four loans totaling $40.4 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2008. The “land acquisition and development loan” category consists of 25 loans and aggregates $165.8 million of which three loans totaling $33.2 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2008. The “land acquisition, development and construction loan” category consists of 14 loans and aggregates $75.5 million of which three loans totaling $18.5 million were on non-accrual as of December 31, 2008. In addition to the loans described above, during 2008, the Company formed an asset workout subsidiary which acquired non-performing commercial and commercial residential real estate loans from BankAtlantic. The balance of these non-performing loans as of December 31, 2008 was $79.3 million with $22.0 million, $16.8 million and $29.2 million of “builder land bank loans”, “land acquisition and development loans”, and “land acquisition, development and construction loans, respectively. Market conditions may result in our commercial real estate borrowers having difficulty selling lots or homes in their developments for an extended period, which in turn could result in an increase in residential 43 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) construction loan delinquencies and non-accrual balances. Additionally, if the current economic environment continues for a prolonged period of time or deteriorates further, collateral values may even further decline and are likely to result in increased credit losses in these loans. Included in the commercial real estate loans are approximately $225 million of commercial non-residential construction loans. These loans could be susceptible to extended maturities or borrower default, and BankAtlantic could experience higher credit losses and non-performing loans in this portfolio if the economy remains at depressed levels particularly in Florida or if commercial non-residential real estate market values further decline. BankAtlantic’s commercial non-residential loan portfolio includes loans collateralized by income producing properties such as retail shopping centers, warehouses, and office buildings. The current recession has negatively impacted the cash flow generated from these rental properties which in turn impacts the borrowers’ ability to fund the debt service on their loans. If market conditions do not improve or deteriorate further, BankAtlantic may recognize higher credit losses on these loans, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. BankAtlantic’s commercial real estate loan portfolio includes large lending relationships, including 5 relationships with unaffiliated borrowers involving lending commitments in each case in excess of $30 million. Defaults by any of these borrowers could have a material adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s results. BankAtlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by Florida properties primarily located in the markets where BankAtlantic operates its store network. The decline in residential real estate prices and residential home sales throughout Florida has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to the turmoil in the credit markets, financial institutions have tightened underwriting standards which has limited borrowers’ ability to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends in BankAtlantic’s home equity loan portfolio and it does not currently appear that these conditions will improve in the near term. Approximately 80% of the loans in BankAtlantic’s home equity portfolio are residential second mortgages and BankAtlantic experienced heighted delinquencies and credit losses in this portfolio during 2008. If current economic conditions do not improve and home prices continue to fall, BankAtlantic may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio primarily consists of second mortgages, it is unlikely that BankAtlantic will be successful in recovering all or any portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless BankAtlantic is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property BankAtlantic’s interest-only residential loans expose it to greater credit risks. While they have performed satisfactorily to date, approximately 50% of BankAtlantic’s purchased residential loan portfolio (approximately $980 million) consists of interest-only loans. While these loans are not considered sub-prime or negative amortizing loans, they are loans with reduced initial loan payments with the potential for significant increases in monthly loan payments in subsequent periods, even if interest rates do not rise, as required amortization of the principal commences. Monthly loan payments will also increase as interest rates increase. This presents a potential repayment risk if the borrower is unable to meet the higher debt service obligations or refinance the loan. As previously noted, current economic conditions in the residential real estate markets and the mortgage finance markets have made it more difficult for borrowers to refinance their mortgages which also increases our exposure to loss. An increase in BankAtlantic’s allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. As a lender, BankAtlantic is exposed to the risk that its customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. BankAtlantic evaluates the collectability of its loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: • the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; 44 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) • previous loan loss experience; • specific loans that have probable loss potential; • delinquency trends; • estimated fair value of the collateral; • current economic conditions; • the views of its regulators; and • geographic and industry loan concentrations. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in BankAtlantic’s loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect BankAtlantic’s ability to estimate the incurred losses in its loan portfolio. If BankAtlantic’s evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, our earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. BankAtlantic may experience losses in its loan portfolios or perceive adverse trends that require it to significantly increase its allowance for loan losses in the future, which would reduce future earnings. Increases in the allowance for loan losses with respect to the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary, or losses in that portfolio which exceed the current allowance assigned to that portfolio, would similarly adversely affect us. Our loan portfolio subjects us to high levels of credit and counterparty risk. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers or counter-parties may default on their obligations. Credit risk arises through the extension of loans, certain securities, letters of credit and financial guarantees and through counter-party exposure on trading and wholesale loan transactions. In an attempt to manage this risk, we seek to establish policies and procedures to manage both on and off-balance sheet (primarily loan commitments) credit risk. BankAtlantic attempts to manage credit exposure to individual borrowers and counter-parties on an aggregate basis including loans, securities, letters of credit, derivatives and unfunded commitments. While credit personnel analyze the creditworthiness of individual borrowers or counter-parties, and limits are established for the total credit exposure to any one borrower or counter-party, such limits may not have the effect of adequately limiting credit exposure. BankAtlantic also enters into participation agreements with or acquires participation interests from other lenders to limit its credit risk, but will be subject to risks with respect to its interest in the loan and will not be in a position to make independent determinations in its sole discretion with respect to its interests. The majority of BankAtlantic’s residential loans are serviced by others. The servicing agreements may restrict BankAtlantic’s ability to initiate work-out and modification arrangements with borrowers which could adversely impact BankAtlantic’s ability to minimize losses on non-performing loans. The Company is also exposed to credit and counterparty risks with respect to loans held in our asset workout subsidiary. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. BankAtlantic’s business, the location of its stores, the primary source of repayment for its small business loans and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans (and the loans held by our asset workout subsidiary) and its home equity loans are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as unemployment, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market are more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a greater negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business than similar institutions in markets outside 45 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) of Florida. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. The majority of BankAtlantic’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature. As a result, the earnings and growth of BankAtlantic are significantly affected by interest rates, which are subject to the influence of economic conditions generally, both domestic and foreign, events in the capital markets and also to the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The nature and timing of any changes in such policies or general economic conditions and their effect on BankAtlantic cannot be controlled and are extremely difficult to predict. Changes in interest rates can impact BankAtlantic’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. Banking is an industry that depends to a large extent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between: • interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans; and • interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Changes in interest rates can have differing effects on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. In particular, changes in market interest rates, changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or the yield curve, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income and therefore reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While BankAtlantic has attempted to structure its asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on net interest income of changes in market interest rates, we cannot provide assurances that BankAtlantic will be successful in doing so. Loan and mortgage-backed securities prepayment decisions are also affected by interest rates. Loan and securities prepayments generally accelerate as interest rates fall. Prepayments in a declining interest rate environment reduce BankAtlantic’s net interest income and adversely affect its earnings because: • it amortizes premiums on acquired loans and securities, and if loans or securities are prepaid, the unamortized premium will be charged off; and • the yields it earns on the investment of funds that it receives from prepaid loans and securities are generally less than the yields that it earned on the prepaid loans. Significant loan prepayments in BankAtlantic’s mortgage and investment portfolios in the future could have an adverse effect on BankAtlantic’s earnings as proceeds from the repayment of loans may be reinvested in loans with lower interest rates. Additionally, increased prepayments associated with purchased residential loans may result in increased amortization of premiums on acquired loans, which would reduce BankAtlantic’s interest income. In a rising interest rate environment, loan and securities prepayments generally decline, resulting in yields that are less than the current market yields. In addition, the credit risks of loans with adjustable rate mortgages may worsen as interest rates rise and debt service obligations increase. BankAtlantic uses a computer model using standard industry software to quantify its interest rate risk, in support of its Asset/Liability Committee. This model measures the potential impact of gradual and abrupt changes in interest rates on BankAtlantic’s net interest income. While management would attempt to respond to the projected impact on net interest income, there is no assurance that management’s efforts will be successful. BankAtlantic is subject to liquidity risk as its loans exceed its deposits. Like all financial institutions, BankAtlantic’s assets exceed customer deposits and changes in interest rates, availability of alternative investment opportunities, a loss of confidence in financial institutions in general or 46 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) BankAtlantic in particular, and other factors may make deposit gathering more difficult. If BankAtlantic experiences decreases in deposit levels, it may need to increase its borrowings or liquidate a portion of its assets which may not be readily saleable. Additionally, interest rate changes or further disruptions in the capital markets may make the terms of borrowings and deposits less favorable. As a result, there is a risk that the cost of funding will increase or that BankAtlantic will not have funds to meet its obligations. For a further discussion on liquidity refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative and related infrastructure expansion to support a larger organization has resulted in higher operating expenses, which has had an adverse impact on our earnings. BankAtlantic’s “Florida’s Most Convenient Bank” initiative, the opening of 32 stores from January 2005 to August 2008 and the related expansion of our infrastructure and operations have required us to provide additional management resources, hire additional personnel, increase compensation, occupancy and marketing expenditures, and take steps to enhance and expand our operational and management information systems. The new stores are located throughout Florida and represent a 51% increase, based on the number of stores, in BankAtlantic’s retail network. Employee compensation, occupancy and equipment and advertising expenses have significantly increased since the inception of the initiative, during 2002, from $78.9 million during 2001 to $212.9 million during 2008. The current economic recession has impacted the length of time required for these new stores to achieve profitability. As a consequence, BankAtlantic is currently reorganizing its operations in an attempt to improve its performance by significantly reducing operating expenses while focusing on its core businesses and maintaining quality customer service. As part of this strategy, since 2007, BankAtlantic has slowed its network expansions and reduced its services hours and, in 2008, BankAtlantic sold five of its branches located in Orlando to an independent financial institution. While management is focused on reducing overall expenses, there is no assurance that BankAtlantic will be successful in efforts to significantly reduce these expenses and the continuation of the current expense structure may have an adverse impact on our results. BankAtlantic obtains a significant portion of its non-interest income through service charges on core deposit accounts. BankAtlantic’s deposit account growth has generated a substantial amount of service charge income. The largest component of this service charge income is overdraft fees. Changes in customer behavior as well as increased competition from other financial institutions could result in declines in deposit accounts or in overdraft frequency resulting in a decline in service charge income. Also, the downturn in the Florida economy could result in the inability to collect overdraft fees and a corresponding increase in our overdraft fee reserves. Additionally, future changes in banking regulations, in particular limitations on retail customer fees, may impact this revenue source. Any of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our results. Deposit premium insurance assessments may increase substantially, which will adversely affect expenses. BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $2.8 million. We expect, however, that BankAtlantic’s FDIC deposit insurance assessments will significantly increase in 2009 due to the recent experience of the FDIC deposit insurance fund relating to recent bank failures and the stress on the system. While the amount of the increase is uncertain, any increase in the FDIC deposit insurance will increase BankAtlantic’s expenses, thereby adversely impacting our results. Regulatory Compliance. The banking industry is an industry subject to multiple layers of regulation. Failure to comply with any of these regulations can result in substantial penalties, significant restrictions on business activities and growth plans and/or limitations on dividend payments. As a holding company, BankAtlantic Bancorp is also subject to significant regulation. For a description of the primary regulations applicable to BankAtlantic and BankAtlantic Bancorp see “Regulations and Supervision”. Changes in the regulation or capital requirements associated with holding companies generally or BankAtlantic Bancorp in particular could also have an adverse impact. 47 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. In light of the current challenging economic environment, the Company is considering raising funds to be in a position to provide additional capital to BankAtlantic, if needed. Additionally, the OTS could impose capital requirements on the Company or could impose additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may make it more difficult or more costly to obtain financing. There is no assurance that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The terms and pricing of any transaction by the Company or BankAtlantic could result in substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and could adversely impact the price of our Class A common stock. Continued capital and credit market volatility may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for issuers without regard to the issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. A sustained decline in the Company’s Class A common stock price may result in the delisting of its Class A common stock from the New York Stock Exchange. The Company’s Class A common stock currently trades on the New York Stock Exchange. Like other companies involved in the financial services industry, the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock has recently experienced a substantial decline. Previously, a listed company would be deemed to be below compliance with the continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange if, among other things, the listed company’s average closing price was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading day period or the listed company’s average market capitalization was less than $25 million over a consecutive 30 trading day period. As a result of the ongoing turmoil in the economy generally, the New York Stock Exchange has modified its continued listing standards to suspend, until June 30, 2009, the $1.00 minimum price requirement and to lower, until June 30, 2009, the average market capitalization requirement from $25 million to $15 million. If the Company does not meet the requirements for continued listing, then the Company’s Class A common stock will be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. In such case, the Company would attempt to cause its Class A common stock to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. However, the trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock would likely be adversely impacted, it may become more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A common stock, and it may become more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which, in the event additional capital is required to operate our business, could materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. BankAtlantic Bancorp services its debt and pays dividends primarily from dividends from BankAtlantic, which are subject to regulatory limits. BankAtlantic Bancorp is a holding company and dividends from BankAtlantic represent a significant portion of its cash flows. BankAtlantic Bancorp uses dividends from BankAtlantic to service its debt obligations and to pay dividends on its capital stock. BankAtlantic’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp is subject to regulatory limitations and the authority of the OTS and the FDIC. Generally, BankAtlantic may make a capital distribution without prior OTS approval in an amount equal to BankAtlantic’s net income for the current calendar year to date, plus retained net income for the previous two years, provided that BankAtlantic does not become under-capitalized as a result of the distribution. However, at December 48 Table of Contents Financial Services(BankAtlantic Bancorp) 31, 2008, BankAtlantic had a retained net deficit and therefore is required to obtain approval from the OTS in order to make capital distributions to BankAtlantic Bancorp. Due to BankAtlantic’s recent net losses, BankAtlantic suspended dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp in December 2008. In addition, if BankAtlantic participates in the CPP, its ability to pay dividends to BankAtlantic Bancorp in the future will be subject to the restrictions contained in that program. In February 2009, BankAtlantic Bancorp notified the trustees under its trust preferred junior subordinated debentures that it was electing to defer quarterly interest payments, which it has the right to do without default or penalty for up to twenty consecutive quarters. During the deferral period, the Company is not permitted to pay dividends on its common stock. Not withstanding the deferral, BankAtlantic Bancorp will continue to recognize a liability for the interest accrued and will be required to accrue interest on the deferred interest. At December 31, 2008, BankAtlantic Bancorp had approximately $294.2 million of indebtedness outstanding under the trust preferred junior subordinated debentures at the holding company level with maturities ranging from 2032 through 2037. The aggregate annual interest payments on this indebtedness were approximately $18 million based on interest rates at December 31, 2008 and is generally indexed to three-month LIBOR. BankAtlantic Bancorp’s financial condition would be adversely affected if interest payments were deferred for a prolonged time period. For a further discussion refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The Company is controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2008, BFC Financial Corporation (“BFC”) owned all of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class B common stock and 2,389,697 shares, or approximately 23%, of the Company’s issued and outstanding Class A common stock. BFC’s holdings represent approximately 59% of the Company’s total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B common stock representing approximately 73.8% of BFC’s total voting power. The Company’s Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control the Company, elect the Company’s Board of Directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock vote as a separate class. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company’s Class A common stock. The Company’s activities and the activities of the Company’s subsidiaries, including BankAtlantic, are subject to regulatory requirements that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company is a “grandfathered” unitary savings and loan holding company and has broad authority to engage in various types of business activities. The OTS can prevent the Company from engaging in activities or limit those activities if it determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the continuation of any particular activity constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of BankAtlantic. The OTS may also: • limit the payment of dividends by BankAtlantic to the Company; • limit transactions between the Company, BankAtlantic and the subsidiaries or affiliates of either; • limit the Company’s activities and the activities of BankAtlantic; or • Impose capital requirements on the Company or additional capital requirements on BankAtlantic. Unlike bank holding companies, as a unitary savings and loan holding company the Company has not historically been subject to capital requirements. However, the OTS has indicated that it may, in the future, impose capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The OTS may in the future adopt regulations that would affect the Company’s operations, including the Company’s ability to pay dividends or to engage in certain transactions or activities. See “Regulation and Supervision — Holding Company.” 49 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) Real Estate Development Risk Factors Our Real Estate Development activities consists of Woodbridge results of operations, which is consolidated with BFC Financial Corporation. The only assets available to BFC Financial Corporation are dividends when and if declared and paid by Woodbridge. Woodbridge is a separate public company and its management prepared the following Item 1A. Risk Factors regarding Woodbridge which was included in Woodbridge’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Accordingly, references to the “Company”, “we”, “us”, “our” or “Parent Company” in the following discussion under the caption “Real Estate Development” are references to Woodbridge and its subsidiaries, and are not references to BFC Financial Corporation. RISKS RELATING TO OUR REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS Through Core Communities and Carolina Oak, we engage in real estate activities which are speculative and involve a high degree of risk. The real estate industry is highly cyclical by nature. The current market is experiencing a significant decline, and future market conditions are uncertain. There are many factors which affect the real estate industry, and many of these factors are beyond our control, including: • overbuilding or decreases in demand to acquire land; • the availability and cost of financing; • unfavorable interest rates and increases in inflation; • changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; • cost overruns, inclement weather, and labor and material shortages; • the impact of present or future environmental legislation, zoning laws and other regulations; • availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; and • increases in real estate taxes, insurance and other local government fees. The real estate market has experienced a significant downturn, and the duration and ultimate severity of the downturn is uncertain. A continued deterioration of economic conditions will adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The downturn in the real estate market, which is now in its fourth year, has become one of the most severe in U.S. history. This downturn, which resulted from a decline in consumer confidence, decline in real estate prices and an oversupply of real estate available for sale, has been exacerbated by, among other things, a decline in the overall economy, increasing unemployment, fear of job loss and a decline in the securities and credit markets. The government’s legislative and administrative measures aimed at restoring liquidity to the credit markets and improving conditions in the real estate markets has only recently begun and there is no indication yet whether these measures have or will effectively stabilize prices and real estate values or restore consumer confidence and increase demand in the real estate markets. As a result of this downturn, and specifically the adverse impact that the combination of the lower demand and higher inventories has had on the amount of land that we are able to develop and sell and the prices at which we are able to sell the land, our operating results and financial condition have been adversely affected. We cannot predict the duration or ultimate severity of the current challenging conditions, nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the current downturn or the government’s attempts to address the troubles in the economy will be successful. If these conditions persist or continue to worsen, they will further adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 50 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) Because real estate investments are illiquid, the downturn in the real estate market and in the economy in general has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our business and cash flow. Real estate investments are generally illiquid. Like other companies that invest in real estate, we have a limited ability to vary our portfolio of real estate investments in response to changes in economic and other conditions. In addition, as a result of the sustained downturn in the real estate market, and in the economy in general, the estimated market value of our real estate properties has decreased and may continue to decrease in the future. Moreover, we may not be able to timely dispose of properties when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary, or complete the disposition of properties under contract to be sold, and any such dispositions may not provide proceeds in excess of the amount of our investment in the property or even in excess of the amount of any indebtedness secured by the property. As a result, we are susceptible to the risks associated with further declines in real estate values, including the risk that we may be required to record additional impairment write-downs with respect to our real estate inventory in the future if the current real estate environment does not improve or if the market value of our real estate properties otherwise continues to decline. We had $241.3 million of real estate inventory at December 31, 2008. The commercial real estate market has been adversely affected by the current economic and credit environment. Economic conditions may make it more difficult to achieve projected rental and occupancy rates on Core’s commercial leasing projects, which may adversely impact the net operating income of the projects. The risks relating to Core’s commercial leasing projects include, without limitation: • the risk that a significant tenant or a number of tenants may file for bankruptcy protection, creating the possibility that past due rents may never be recovered; • the risk that leases with certain existing tenants may become overly burdensome to the lessee due to reduced business activity, and lease concessions and modifications may be necessary to avoid defaults; • the risk that the current adverse economic conditions and limited availability of credit may continue or deteriorate further, causing market capitalization rates on commercial properties to increase beyond present levels, thus reducing the value at which commercial projects can be sold; • the risk that net operating income at the commercial leasing projects may not be sufficient to meet certain debt service coverage ratio requirements, which would result in requirements for additional principal curtailment payments in order to bring the loans into compliance; and • the risk that vacant space will take longer to lease and that rental rates will be lower than projected or necessary to operate the project profitably. Commercial leasing projects may not yield anticipated returns, which could harm our operating results, reduce cash flow, or the ability to sell commercial assets. A component of our business strategy is the development of commercial properties and assets for sale. These developments may not be as successful as expected due to the commercial leasing related risks discussed herein, as well as the risks associated with real estate development generally. Additionally, development of commercial projects involves the risk associated with the significant time lag between commencement and completion of the project. This time lag subjects us to greater risks relating to fluctuations in the general economy, our ability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms, if at all, our ability to achieve projected rental rates, the pace that we will be able to lease new tenants, higher than estimated construction costs (including labor and material costs), and delays in the completion of projects because of, among other factors, inclement weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receiving zoning or other regulatory approvals, or man-made or natural disasters. 51 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) We utilize community development district and special assessment district bonds to fund development costs, and we will be responsible for assessments until the underlying property is sold. We establish community development district and special assessment district bonds to access tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at Core’s master-planned communities. We are responsible for any assessed amounts until the underlying property is sold. Accordingly, if we continue to hold certain of our properties longer than originally projected (as a result of a continued downturn in the real estate markets or otherwise), we may be required to pay a higher portion of annual assessments on such properties. In addition, we could be required to pay down a portion of the bonds in the event our entitlements were to decrease as to the number of residential units and/or commercial space that can be built on the properties encumbered by the bonds. Moreover, Core has guaranteed payments for assessments under the district bonds in Tradition, Florida which would require funding if future assessments to be allocated to property owners are insufficient to repay the bonds. The availability of tax-exempt bond financing to fund infrastructure development at Core’s master-planned communities may be adversely impacted by recent disruptions in credit markets, including the municipal bond market, by general economic conditions and by fluctuations in the real estate market. If we are not able to access this type of financing, we would be forced to obtain substitute financing, and there is no assurance that we would be able to obtain substitute financing on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are not able to obtain financing for infrastructure development, Core would be forced to use its own funds or delay development activity at its master-planned communities. Core’s results are subject to significant volatility. Due to the nature and size of Core’s individual land transactions, Core’s results and our consolidated results have historically been subject to significant volatility. Land sale revenues have been sporadic and have fluctuated dramatically based upon, among other factors, changing sales prices and costs attributable to the land sold. Due to the current downturn in the real estate market, margins on land sales may continue to decline and there is no assurance that they will return to prior levels. If the real estate markets deteriorate further or if the current downturn is prolonged, we may not be able to sell land at prices above our carrying cost or even in amounts necessary to repay our indebtedness. In addition to the impact of economic and market factors, the sales price and margin of land sold varies depending upon: the location; the parcel size; whether the parcel is sold as raw land, partially developed land or individually developed lots; the degree to which the land is entitled; and whether the designated use of land is residential or commercial. In addition, our ability to realize margins may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: • shortages or increases in prices of construction materials; • natural disasters in the areas in which we operate; • lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; and • our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the start or completion of development at, or increase the cost of developing, Core’s master-planned communities. We compete with other real estate developers, both regionally and nationally, for labor as well as raw materials, and the competition for materials has recently become global. Increased costs in labor and materials could cause increases in construction costs. In addition, the cost of sales of real estate is dependent upon the original cost of the land acquired, the timing of the acquisition of the land, and the amount of land development, interest and real estate tax costs capitalized to the particular land parcel during active development. Future margins will continue to vary based on these and other market factors. 52 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) We are dependent upon certain key tenants in our commercial developments, and decisions made by these tenants or adverse developments in the business of these tenants could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Our commercial real estate centers are supported by anchor tenants which, due to size, reputation or other factors, are particularly responsible for drawing other tenants and shoppers to our centers in certain cases. We are subject to the risk that certain of these anchor tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. In addition, an anchor tenant may decide that a particular store is unprofitable and close its operations, and, while the anchor tenant may continue to make rental payments, its failure to occupy its premises could have an adverse effect on the property. A lease termination by an anchor tenant or a failure by that anchor tenant to occupy the premises could result in lease terminations or reductions in rent by other tenants in the same shopping center. Vacated anchor tenant space also tends to adversely affect the entire shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant’s power to draw customers to the center. We may not be able to quickly re-lease vacant space on favorable terms, if at all. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. It may be difficult and costly to rent vacant space and space which may become vacant in future periods. Our goal is to improve the performance of our properties by leasing available space and re-leasing vacated space. However, we may not be able to maintain our overall occupancy levels. Our ability to continue to lease or re-lease vacant space in our commercial properties will be affected by many factors, including our properties’ locations, current market conditions and the provisions of the leases we enter into with the tenants at our properties. In fact, many of the factors which could cause our current tenants to vacate their space could also make it more difficult for us to re-lease that space. The failure to lease or to re-lease vacant space on satisfactory terms could harm our operating results. If we are able to re-lease vacated space, there is no assurance that rental rates will be equal to or in excess of current rental rates. In addition, we may incur substantial costs in obtaining new tenants, including brokerage commission fees paid by us in connection with new leases or lease renewals, and the cost of leasehold improvements. Additional adverse changes in economic conditions where we conduct our operations could further reduce the demand for real estate and, as a result, could further adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Adverse changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, especially in Florida and to a lesser extent South Carolina where our operations are concentrated, have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. Continued adverse changes in, among other things, employment levels, job growth, consumer confidence, interest rates and population growth, or a continued oversupply of land for sale may further reduce demand and depress real estate prices, which, in turn, could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If prospective purchasers of our inventory and tenants are not able to obtain suitable financing, our results of operations may further decline. Our results of operations are dependent in part on the ability of prospective purchasers of our real estate inventory and prospective commercial tenants to secure financing. The recent deterioration of the credit markets and the related tightening of credit standards may impact the ability of prospective purchasers and tenants to secure financing on acceptable terms, if at all. This may, in turn, negatively impact land sales and long-term rental and occupancy rates as well as the value of Core’s commercial properties. 53 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) Natural disasters could have an adverse effect on our real estate operations. The Florida and South Carolina markets in which we operate are subject to the risks of natural disasters such as hurricanes and tropical storms. These natural disasters could have a material adverse effect on our business by causing the incurrence of uninsured losses, increased insurance rates, including homebuyer insurance rates, delays in construction, and shortages and increased costs of labor and building materials. In addition to property damage, hurricanes may cause disruptions to our business operations. Approaching storms may require that operations be suspended in favor of storm preparation activities. After a storm has passed, construction-related resources such as sub-contracted labor and building materials are likely to be redeployed to hurricane recovery efforts. Governmental permitting and inspection activities may similarly be focused primarily on returning displaced residents to homes damaged by the storms rather than on new construction activity. Depending on the severity of the damage caused by the storms, disruptions such as these could last for several months. A portion of our revenues from land sales in Core’s master-planned communities are recognized for accounting purposes under the percentage of completion method. Therefore, if our actual results differ from our assumptions, our profitability may be reduced. Under the percentage of completion method of accounting for recognizing revenue, we record revenue and cost of sales as work on the project progresses based on the percentage of actual work incurred compared to the total estimated costs. This method relies on estimates of total expected project costs. Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and revised periodically as the work progresses. Adjustments are reflected in sales of real estate and cost of sales in the period when such estimates are revised. Variation of actual results compared to our estimated costs in Core’s master-planned communities could cause material changes to our net margins. Product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly. Our commercial real estate development business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the commercial real estate industries and can be costly. We have, and many of our subcontractors have, general liability, property, errors and omissions, workers compensation and other business insurance. However, these insurance policies only protect us against a portion of our risk of loss from claims. In addition, because of the uncertainties inherent in these matters, we cannot provide reasonable assurance that our insurance coverage or our subcontractor arrangements will be adequate to address all warranty, construction defect and liability claims in the future. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims, if applicable, are substantial and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is also currently limited. There can be no assurance that this coverage will not be further restricted and become more costly. If we are not able to obtain adequate insurance against these claims, we may experience losses that could negatively impact our operating results. We are subject to governmental regulations that may limit our operations, increase our expenses or subject us to liability. We are subject to laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies concerning, among other things: • environmental matters, including the presence of hazardous or toxic substances; • wetland preservation; • health and safety; • zoning, land use and other entitlements; • building design; and • density levels. In developing a project and building commercial properties, we may be required to obtain the approval of numerous governmental authorities regulating matters such as: 54 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) • the installation of utility services such as gas, electric, water and waste disposal; • the dedication of acreage for open space, parks and schools; • permitted land uses; and • the construction design, methods and materials used. These laws or regulations could, among other things: • establish building moratoriums; • limit the number of commercial properties that may be built; • change building codes and construction requirements affecting property under construction; • increase the cost of development and construction; and • delay development and construction. We may also at times not be in compliance with all regulatory requirements. If we are not in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to penalties or we may be forced to incur significant expenses to cure any noncompliance. In addition, some of our land has not yet received planning approvals or entitlements necessary for development. Failure to obtain entitlements necessary for land development on a timely basis or to the extent desired may adversely affect our operating results. Several governmental authorities have also imposed impact fees as a means of defraying the cost of providing governmental services to developing areas, and many of these fees have increased significantly during recent years. Building moratoriums and changes in governmental regulations may subject us to delays or increased costs of construction or prohibit development of our properties. We may be subject to delays or may be precluded from developing in certain communities because of building moratoriums or changes in statutes or rules that could be imposed in the future. The State of Florida and various counties have in the past and may in the future continue to declare moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and impose restrictions in areas where the infrastructure, such as roads, schools, parks, water and sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities, does not reach minimum standards. Additionally, certain counties in Florida, including counties where we are developing projects, have enacted more stringent building codes which have resulted in increased costs of construction. As a consequence, we may incur significant expenses in connection with complying with new regulatory requirements that we may not be able to pass on to purchasers or tenants. We are subject to environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure to promptly remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property, to use the property for its intended purpose, or, if we deem necessary or desirable in the future, to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business. Insurance and surety companies may take actions that could negatively affect our business, including increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral or covenants on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverages, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 55 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) Our results may vary. Like other companies engaged in real estate activities, we historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in operating results on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Factors expected to contribute to this variability include: • the cyclical nature of the real estate industry; • prevailing interest rates and the availability of financing; • weather; • cost and availability of materials and labor; • competitive conditions; • timing of sales of land; • the timing of receipt of regulatory and other governmental approvals for land development projects; and • the timing of the sale of our commercial leasing operations. Levitt and Sons had surety bonds on most of their projects, some of which were subject to indemnity by Woodbridge. Levitt and Sons had $33.3 million in surety bonds relating to its ongoing projects at the time of the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases. In the event that these obligations are drawn and paid by the surety, Woodbridge could be responsible for up to $11.7 million plus costs and expenses in accordance with the surety indemnity agreement for these instruments. As of December 31, 2008, we had a $1.1 million in surety bonds accrual at Woodbridge related to certain bonds where management considers it probable that the Company will be required to reimburse the surety under the indemnity agreement. It is unclear given the uncertainty involved in the Chapter 11 Cases whether and to what extent the outstanding surety bonds of Levitt and Sons will be drawn and the extent to which Woodbridge may be responsible for additional amounts beyond this accrual. It is unlikely that Woodbridge would have the ability to receive any repayment, assets or other consideration as recovery of any amount it is required to pay. If losses on additional surety bonds are identified, we will need to take additional charges associated with Woodbridge’s exposure under our indemnities, and this may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. RISKS RELATING TO OUR OTHER ACTIVITIES AND TO OUR COMPANY, GENERALLY Our outstanding debt instruments impose restrictions on our operations and activities and could adversely affect our financial condition. At December 31, 2008, our consolidated debt was approximately $350.0 million, of which $215.3 million related to Core Communities. Certain loans which provide the primary financing for Tradition, Florida and Tradition Hilton Head have annual appraisal and re-margining requirements. These provisions may require Core Communities, in circumstances where the value of its real estate securing these loans declines, to pay down a portion of the principal amount of the loans to bring the loans within specified minimum loan-to-value ratios. Accordingly, should land prices decline to the point at which the loans fall below their specified minimum loan-to-value ratios, reappraisals could result in significant future re-margining payments. In addition, all of our outstanding debt instruments require us to comply with certain financial covenants. Further, one of our debt instruments contains cross-default provisions, which could cause a default on this debt instrument if we default on other debt instruments. If we fail to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants, the holders of the applicable debt could cause our debt to become due and payable prior to maturity. These accelerations or significant re-margining payments could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash and cash flow from operations to payment of or on our debt and reduce our ability to use our cash for other purposes. 56 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) Core’s loan agreements generally require repayment of specified amounts upon a sale of a portion of the property collateralizing the debt. Core also is subject to provisions in some of its loan agreements that may require additional principal payments, known as curtailment payments. Core made curtailment payments totaling approximately $19.9 million during 2008. Additional curtailment payments may be required in the future if the unfavorable current trends in the real estate market continue. For 2009, our anticipated minimum principal debt payment obligations total approximately $3.6 million, assuming the exercise of all loan extensions available at our discretion, in each case exclusive of any re-margining payments that could be required in the event that property serving as collateral becomes impaired, curtailment payments which may be required in the event sales are below contractual minimums and any additional amounts which may become due upon a sale of the property securing the loan. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and future borrowings may not be available under our existing credit facilities or any other financing sources in an amount sufficient, to enable us to service our indebtedness or fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, which, due to, among other factors, the recent disruptions in the credit and capital markets, we may not be able to do on favorable terms or at all. Core is engaging a restructuring firm to review its cash flow models and analyze the terms of its outstanding indebtedness, and, where appropriate, to enter into discussions with its lenders relating to a restructuring of Core’s debt. If Core is not successful in restructuring its debt, it may not have sufficient resources to timely meet its obligations. Core’s obligations are independent of Woodbridge and Woodbridge is not legally obligated to support Core. There is no assurance that Woodbridge will provide additional resources to Core in the event that Core requires additional funds in order to meet its obligations as they become due. If Core is not able to meet its obligations as they become due, the lenders under the defaulted loans could foreclose on any property which serves as collateral for the defaulted loan and Core could be forced to cease or significantly curtail its operations, which would likely result in significant impairment charges and losses at Woodbridge. Our current business strategy may require us to obtain additional capital, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to develop our real estate projects and pursue new investments as currently contemplated using solely our capital on hand. As a result, we may in the future need to obtain additional financing in an effort to successfully implement our business strategy. These funds may be obtained through public or private debt or equity financings, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances. We may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all, especially in light of the current adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets and, with respect to funding of Core’s master-planned communities, the adverse conditions in municipal bond markets which may impact our ability to access tax-exempt bond financing. Moreover, certain of our bank financing agreements contain provisions that limit the type and amount of debt we may incur in the future without our lenders’ consent. If we are unable to obtain any additional capital necessary to fund our real estate operations or pursue or consummate new investments, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our land development activities, or liquidate certain of our assets, and we may not be able to successfully implement our business strategy with respect to new investments. The occurrence of any of the above events may adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to the risks of the businesses that we currently hold investments in, and our future acquisitions may reduce our earnings, require us to obtain additional financing, and expose us to additional risks. We currently hold investments in Bluegreen, Office Depot and Pizza Fusion, and, as a result, we are subject to the risks faced by those companies in their respective industries. Each has been adversely affected by a downturn in the economy, loss of consumer confidence and disruptions in the credit markets. In addition, our business strategy includes the possibility of making material investments in other industries. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth with seasoned and experienced management teams, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Further, investments or acquisitions 57 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) that we do complete may not prove to be successful. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks, including the risks faced by the acquired businesses, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations if, among other things, the acquired businesses do not perform as expected or the acquisitions do not otherwise accomplish our strategic objectives. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions could initially reduce our per share earnings and add significant amortization expense or intangible asset charges. Since our acquisition strategy involves holding investments for the foreseeable future and because we do not expect to generate significant excess cash flow from operations, we may rely on additional debt or equity financing to implement our acquisition strategy. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A or Class B Common Stock. We do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. If current economic and credit market conditions do not improve and the book value of our investments continue to exceed the trading value of the shares we own, we may incur additional impairment charges in the future relating to those investments, which would adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We own approximately 9.5 million shares of Bluegreen common stock, representing approximately 31% of Bluegreen’s outstanding common stock. During 2008, we evaluated our investment in Bluegreen for impairment and determined that there was an other-than-temporary impairment associated with such investment at September 30, 2008. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $53.6 million and adjusted the carrying value of our investment in Bluegreen as of September 30, 2008 from $119.4 million to $65.8 million. Additionally, after further evaluation of our investment in Bluegreen as of December 31, 2008, we determined that an additional impairment of our investment in Bluegreen was appropriate. Accordingly, we recorded a $40.8 million impairment charge (calculated based upon the $3.13 closing price of Bluegreen’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on December 31, 2008). The carrying value of our investment in Bluegreen as of December 31, 2008 was $29.8 million. There can be no assurance that we will not be required to record a further impairment charge in the future relating to our investment in Bluegreen. On March 13, 2009, the closing price of Bluegreen’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $1.12 per share. We also own approximately 1.4 million shares of Office Depot common stock, representing less than 1% of Office Depot’s outstanding common stock. These shares are accounted for as available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value. During 2008, we evaluated our investment in Office Depot for impairment and determined that an impairment charge was necessary. Accordingly, we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of $12.0 million associated with our investment in Office Depot. As of December 31, 2008, the cost of our investment in Office Depot was $16.3 million while the carrying value of such investment, recorded at fair value, was $4.3 million. If current market conditions do not improve or if the trading price of Office Depot’s common stock does not otherwise increase, then we may be required to record future other-than-temporary impairment adjustments. On March 13, 2009, the closing price of Office Depot’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was $1.10 per share. In the event we record impairments in the future with respect to our current or future investments, then the cost of the investment determined to be impaired will be written down to its fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings, which would adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. We are subject to certain additional risks relating to our investment in Bluegreen. Although Bluegreen’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the shares of Bluegreen common stock we own may be deemed restricted stock, which would limit our ability to liquidate our investment in Bluegreen if we choose to do so. In addition, while we have made a significant investment in Bluegreen, we do not expect to receive any dividends from the company in the foreseeable future. 58 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) For the year ended December 31, 2008, our earnings from our investment in Bluegreen were $9.0 million (after the amortization of approximately $9.2 million related to the change in the basis as a result of the impairment charge at September 30, 2008), compared to $10.3 million in 2007, and $9.7 million in 2006. At December 31, 2008, the carrying value of our investment in Bluegreen was $29.8 million. A significant portion of our earnings and book value are dependent upon Bluegreen’s ability to operate its business plan successfully, which may be difficult given the current economic environment. The loss of the services of our key management and personnel could adversely affect our business. Our ability to successfully implement our business strategy will depend on our ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. There is no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. Our controlling shareholders have the voting power to control the outcome of any shareholder vote, except in limited circumstances. As of December 31, 2008, BFC Financial Corporation owned all of the issued and outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock, and 3,735,392 shares, or approximately 22.4%, of our issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock. In the aggregate, these shares represent approximately 23.6% of our total equity and approximately 59% of our total voting power. Since our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters, BFC is in a position to control our Company and elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, our Vice Chairman, collectively beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 73.8% of BFC’s total voting power. As a result, Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo effectively have the voting power to control the outcome of any vote of our shareholders, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of our Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. BFC’s interests may conflict with the interests of our other shareholders. Our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the Internal Revenue Code. We have experienced and continue to experience net operating losses. Under the Internal Revenue Code, we may utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in certain circumstances to offset future taxable income and to reduce federal income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. However, if we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, then our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards could be substantially limited, which could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Generally, there is an “ownership change” if, at any time, one or more shareholders owning 5% or more of a company’s common stock have aggregate increases in their ownership of such stock of more than 50 percentage points over the prior three-year period. In September 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to preserve shareholder value and protect our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards by providing a deterrent to holders of less than 5% of our Class A Common Stock from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in our Class A Common Stock. However, there can be no assurance that the shareholder rights plan will successfully prevent against an “ownership change” or otherwise preserve our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income, nor can there be any assurance that we will be in a position to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards in the future even if we do not experience an “ownership change.” 59 Table of Contents Real Estate Development(Woodbridge) In the event that the Company chooses to de-register its securities from registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission, it would no longer file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission and this could result in lower prices and more limited trading of the Company’s securities as well as adversely impact the Company’s ability to raise capital. In order to further reduce costs, the Company may choose to de-register its securities from the Securities and Exchange Commission, which would result in less information about the Company being publicly available to investors and could result in a lower trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock. During 2008, the Company failed to meet the minimum continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange necessary to cause the Company’s Class A common stock to maintain its listing on the New York Stock Exchange and, consequently, the Company’s Class A common stock was de-listed. The Company’s Class A common stock is now quoted on the Pink Sheets. In order to further reduce costs, the Company may choose to de-register its securities from the Securities and Exchange Commission, as the cost of public reporting is significant. Pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, if at any time the number of record holders of the Company’s Class A common stock falls below 300, including accounts held through depositories and institutional custodians, then the Company would be permitted to elect to de-register its securities, which de-registration would be effective 90 days after making the appropriate filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If the Company de-registers its securities from the Securities and Exchange Commission, then the Company would cease filing periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including current reports on Form 8-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and annual reports on Form 10-K, which would result in less information about the Company being publicly available to investors. Accordingly, this could result in a lower trading price of the Company’s Class A common stock, may make it more difficult for the holders of the Company’s Class A common stock to sell or purchase shares of the Company’s Class A common stock, and may cause it to be more difficult for the Company to raise capital, which, in the event additional capital is required to operate the Company’s business, could materially and adversely impact the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 60 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 61 Table of Contents 