ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of our business and investments, and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect us. Moreover, the Company’s subsidiaries operate in a very competitive, highly regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to either predict all risk factors or assess the impact of any factor, or combination of factors, on the Company’s and its subsidiaries operations, results and financial condition. BFC has in the past incurred cash flow deficits at its parent company level and will rely on dividends from its subsidiaries in the future. BFC is engaged in making investments in operating businesses. Historically, BFC, at its parent company level, has not had revenue generating operating activities and has incurred cash flow deficits. BFC has financed operating cash flow deficits with available working capital, issuances of equity or debt securities, and with dividends from its subsidiaries, which BFC has been dependent upon to fund its operations and investments. BFC historically received dividends on the shares of Benihana's stock that it owned. Benihana was acquired by Safflower in a cash merger during August 2012. While BFC received cash proceeds in exchange for its shares of Benihana's common stock in the transaction, BFC no longer holds an investment in Benihana and, accordingly, will not receive dividends in the future from Benihana. In addition, BBX Capital may not be in a position to, and does not expect to, pay dividends for the foreseeable future, and any payment of dividends by BBX Capital requires the declaration of such dividend by BBX Capital's board of directors, a majority of whom are independent under the listing standards of the -NYSE and, accordingly, such decision is not in BFC's control. Further, certain of Bluegreen's credit facilities contain terms which may limit the payment of cash dividends without the lender's consent or waiver. Decisions with respect to dividends by BBX Capital and Bluegreen are generally based on, among other things, the applicable company's operating results, financial condition, cash flow and operating and cash needs. BFC expects to receive dividends from Woodbridge in order to fund its current and future operations and investments; however, dividend decisions by Woodbridge are currently subject to the approval of the boards of directors of both BFC and BBX Capital, and may not be paid to BFC to the extent or when anticipated or at all. Among other expenses that BFC incurs and payments it makes in the ordinary course of its business, BFC pays regular quarterly dividends of $187,500 on its 5% Cumulative Preferred Stock. In addition, former shareholders of Woodbridge Holdings Corporation ("WHC"), the predecessor by merger to Woodbridge, were entitled under the Florida Business Corporation Act (“FBCA”) to exercise appraisal rights in connection with the 2009 merger between BFC and WHC. Dissenting shareholders, who collectively held approximately 4.2 million shares of WHC's Class A Common Stock, exercised appraisal rights and requested payment for their shares. During July 2012, the presiding court in the appraisal rights proceeding determined the fair value of the dissenting shareholders' shares of WHC's Class A Common Stock to be $1.78 per share (or approximately $7.5 million in total) and awarded legal and other costs in favor of the dissenting shareholders. During March 2013, the court awarded legal fees and pre and post judgment interest to the dissenting shareholders totaling approximately $4.4 million, resulting in a total award of approximately $11.9 million (including the $7.5 million based on the $1.78 per share value determination). While Woodbridge is appealing the court's ruling with respect to the fair value determination and the award of legal fees and costs, the outcome of the appeal is uncertain. Further, regardless of the outcome of the appeal, Woodbridge will likely be required to make a significant payment (of up to approximately $11.9 million if the appeal is unsuccessful) to the dissenting shareholders. Additional information regarding this litigation is set forth in "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings." In addition, as previously described, if the currently proposed merger between BFC and BBX Capital is consummated, shareholders of BBX Capital that duly exercise and perfect appraisal rights will be entitled to receive a cash payment in an amount equal to the "fair value" of their shares of BBX Capital's Class A Common Stock (as determined in accordance with the FBCA). Payments made to dissenting shareholders may have a material adverse impact on the combined company's cash position following the merger. If cash flow is not sufficient to fund BFC's liquidity needs or BFC otherwise determines it is advisable to do so, BFC might seek to liquidate some of its investments or seek to fund its operations with the proceeds of additional equity or debt financing. Such financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and if BFC chooses to liquidate its investments, it may be forced to do so at depressed prices. 38 Adverse conditions and events where BFC’s investments are currently concentrated or in the industries in which its subsidiaries operate could adversely impact its results and future growth. BBX Capital's business and the real estate collateralizing its commercial real estate loans and home equity loans are concentrated in Florida and have been adversely impacted by the downturn in economic conditions generally and in Florida in particular. In addition, Bluegreen's operations were adversely impacted by the economic downturn. The impact of the economic downturn, including the persistence or deterioration of adverse economic conditions, natural disasters, including tropical storms and hurricanes or adverse changes in laws or regulations applicable to BFC or the companies in which BFC holds investments could further adversely impact BFC's operating results and financial condition. BFC and its subsidiaries may issue additional securities and incur additional indebtedness. If BFC's cash flow is not sufficient to meet its liquidity needs or BFC's board of directors otherwise determines it to be appropriate, BFC may seek to raise funds in the future through the issuance of debt or equity securities. There is generally no restriction on BFC's ability to issue debt or equity securities which are pari passu or have a preference over its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, although the holders of BFC’s Class B Common Stock have special class voting rights under BFC’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation with respect to certain securities issuances and other actions affecting BFC’s Class B Common Stock. Any such issuance, including shares issued in connection with any investment or acquisition which BFC makes in the future, may be dilutive to BFC's shareholders. See the risk factor below entitled “Substantial sales of BFC’s Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock could adversely affect the market prices of such securities” for information regarding the estimated amount of shares that BFC may issue in connection with its currently proposed merger with BBX Capital. In addition, any securities issuances in the future by a subsidiary of BFC may dilute BFC's economic investment or voting interest in that company. Further, BFC and its subsidiaries have in the past and may in the future incur significant amounts of debt. Any indebtedness could have several important effects, including, without limitation, that BFC or its subsidiaries, as applicable, may be required to use available cash for the payment of principal and interest due on its debt and that outstanding indebtedness and leverage will impact the liquidity of BFC or its subsidiaries, as applicable, and any negative changes in general economic and industry conditions will increase such impact. BFC faces risks and uncertainties with respect to any acquisitions which it or its subsidiaries pursue in the future. BFC has in the past focused on providing strategic support to its existing investments with a view to the improved performance of the organization as a whole. However, BFC may seek to make opportunistic investments outside of its existing portfolio, including investments in real estate based opportunities and middle market operating businesses such as BFC’s recent investment in Renin. While BFC will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that it believes will provide opportunities for growth, BFC may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Investments or acquisitions that BFC does make, such as BFC’s recent investment in Renin, may not prove to be successful or even if successful may not generate income, or may generate income on an irregular basis or over a long time period, which would cause BFC's results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Acquisitions may expose BFC to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Any acquisition made may fail to accomplish the strategic objectives hoped or otherwise not perform as expected or adversely impact BFC's financial condition or operating results. In addition, as described above, shares issued in connection with any investment or acquisition which BFC makes in the future may be dilutive to BFC's shareholders. Acquisitions will also expose BFC to the risks of any business acquired. If the currently proposed merger between BFC and BBX Capital is completed, BBX Capital will become a wholly owned subsidiary of BFC, and BFC would then have a 100% interest in BBX Capital and Bluegreen. Accordingly, if the merger is completed, BFC’s shareholders will be subject to increased exposure to the businesses and operations of BBX Capital and Bluegreen. See “Risks Relating to BBX Capital” and “Risks Relating to Bluegreen” below for a description of the material risks which BBX Capital and Bluegreen face. In addition, there is significant competition for investments and acquisitions, which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Substantial costs are incurred in connection with the evaluation of potential acquisition and investment opportunities whether or not the acquisition or investment is ultimately consummated. Further, such investments or acquisitions may rely on additional debt or equity financing, which will subject BFC to the risks and uncertainties described in the preceding risk factor. If BFC requires additional financing in the future, the financing may not be available when needed or on favorable terms, if at all. 39 Additionally, BFC does not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation or by BFC’s Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws. Substantial sales of BFC’s Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock could adversely affect the market prices of such securities. Substantial sales of BFC’s Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, including sales of shares by controlling shareholders and management, or shares issued in connection with any investments or acquisition that BFC makes in the future, could adversely affect the market prices of such securities. It is currently estimated that up to approximately 41.2 million shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock may be issued in connection with the currently proposed merger with BBX Capital (before giving effect to any reverse stock split which may be effected by BFC in connection with the merger), which would represent approximately 37% of the total number of shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock outstanding after the merger. In addition, the above share amount does not include approximately 155,000 shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock which may be purchased upon exercise of outstanding BBX Capital stock options to be assumed by BFC in the merger and approximately 6.9 million shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock subject to BBX Capital restricted stock awards to be assumed by BFC in the merger (in each case before giving effect to any reverse stock split which may be effected by BFC). Other than the shares issued to shareholders of BBX Capital who may be deemed to be affiliates of BFC for purposes of Rule 144 under the Securities Act after the completion of the merger and shares issued in respect of BBX Capital restricted stock awards which are outstanding and unvested at the effective time of the merger, the shares issued in connection with the merger will not be subject to restrictions on resale. The issuance and potential resale of these shares could have the effect of depressing the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock. Alan B. Levan and John E. Abdo's control position may adversely affect the market price of BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Alan B. Levan, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC, John E. Abdo, the Vice Chairman of BFC, and their respective affiliates currently collectively beneficially own shares of BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 71% of the general voting power and approximately 23% of the total outstanding common stock of BFC. These shares consist of 12,907,051 shares, or approximately 17%, of BFC's Class A Common Stock and 6,521,278 shares, or approximately 87%, of BFC's Class B Common Stock. Each of Messrs. Levan and Abdo was also previously granted 1,389,073 restricted shares of BFC's Class A Common Stock which are scheduled to vest in three equal annual installments beginning on September 30, 2014. In addition, during October 2013, BFC's Compensation Committee approved restricted stock award grants to each of Messrs. Levan and Abdo of 297,408 shares of BFC's Class A Common Stock which would vest in one lump sum during October 2017. The grant of 160,408 of those restricted shares to each of Messrs Levan and Abdo is subject to the approval of BFC's shareholders of an amendment of BFC's 2005 Stock Incentive Plan to increase the number of shares available for grant under such plan. BFC currently intends to seek the approval of its shareholders to the plan amendment at its 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. BFC's Compensation Committee has the right to vote the shares of BFC's Class A Common Stock subject to unvested restricted stock awards; however, the shares subject to unvested restricted stock awards which remain subject to shareholder approval are not considered issued or outstanding and may not be voted by BFC's Compensation Committee or any other person. Messrs. Levan and Abdo are parties to an agreement pursuant to which they have agreed to vote their shares of BFC's Class B Common Stock in favor of the election of the other to BFC's board of directors for so long as they are willing and able to serve as directors of BFC. Additionally, Mr. Abdo has agreed to vote the shares of BFC's Class B Common Stock he owns in the same manner that Mr. Levan votes his shares of BFC's Class B Common Stock. Mr. Abdo has also agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to transfer certain of his shares of BFC's Class B Common Stock and to obtain the consent of Mr. Levan prior to the conversion of certain of his shares of BFC's Class B Common Stock into shares of BFC's Class A Common Stock. Because BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single class on most matters, Messrs. Levan and Abdo effectively have the voting power to elect the members of BFC's board of directors and to control the outcome of any other vote of BFC's shareholders, except in those limited circumstances where Florida law mandates that the holders of BFC's Class A Common Stock vote as a separate class. Messrs. Levan and Abdo's control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In addition, their interests may conflict with the interests of BFC's other shareholders. 40 The loss of the services of BFC's key management and personnel could adversely affect its business and the businesses of its subsidiaries. BFC's ability to successfully implement its business strategy will depend on its ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff. BFC may not be successful in attracting and retaining key management personnel. During January 2012, the SEC filed a lawsuit against BBX Capital and its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Levan. While BBX Capital believes that it and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. Additional information regarding this litigation is set forth in “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings.” As described above, Mr. Levan is also the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC and, together with John E. Abdo, may be deemed to control BFC by virtue of their collective ownership interest in BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In the event Mr. Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of BFC or any of its public company subsidiaries, including BBX Capital, BFC and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. The currently proposed merger between BFC and BBX Capital may not be completed on a timely basis, on anticipated terms, or at all, and there are uncertainties and risks to consummating the merger. Consummation of the currently proposed merger between BFC and BBX Capital is subject to a number of closing conditions. While the companies have agreed in the merger agreement to use all commercially reasonable efforts to satisfy the closing conditions, the companies may not be successful in their efforts to do so. Specifically, consummation of the merger is conditioned upon BFC’s Class A Common Stock being approved for listing on a national securities exchange (or inter-dealer quotation system of a registered national securities association) at the effective time of the merger. The same condition applied to the stock-for-stock merger which was previously proposed between BFC and Bluegreen during 2011 and 2012, and in that case BFC was unsuccessful in its efforts to obtain the listing of its Class A Common Stock on a national securities exchange or qualified inter-dealer quotation system due to public policy concerns expressed by the securities exchanges relating to the pending action brought by the SEC against BBX Capital and its Chairman, Alan B. Levan, who also serves as BFC’s Chairman. The SEC action, which is described in further detail in “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings,” is currently on the trial calendar in November 2014. BFC has been advised by the NYSE and NASDAQ that, subject to a change in their position in the future, they would not consider approval of any application for listing of BFC’s Class A Common Stock during the pendency of the SEC action. Accordingly, BFC has not yet filed an application for the listing of its Class A Common Stock and may or may not do so depending on whether a national securities exchange or qualified inter-dealer quotation system indicates an application could be considered for approval prior to resolution of the litigation. The pendency of the SEC action and delays in resolving the action has had the effect of delaying any listing of BFC’s Class A Common Stock. There is no assurance as to the timing or resolution of the case, or the listing of BFC’s shares. It is not currently anticipated that the merger will be consummated prior to the first quarter of 2015. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, either BFC or BBX may terminate the merger agreement if the merger is not consummated by April 30, 2014. If the conditions to closing the merger are not satisfied or waived, then the merger will not be completed and the companies would have incurred significant transaction costs without consummating the transaction. In addition, if the merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the merger, the market prices of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may be adversely impacted as a result of negative reactions from the financial markets, including market price declines to the extent that current prices reflect a positive market assumption that the merger will be completed. Delays in completing the merger may also negatively impact the respective operations and financial results of the companies due to, among other things, the diversion of management attention to the merger rather than each company’s operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to that company, which in turn may also adversely impact the market price of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. In addition, under the terms of the merger agreement between BFC and BBX Capital, the companies are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their businesses prior to completing the merger. These restrictions may adversely affect each company’s ability to execute certain of its business strategies, including the ability in certain cases to enter into contracts or incur capital expenditures to grow its business. Further, during the pendency of the merger, management attention and company resources may be diverted towards efforts to consummate the merger instead of the businesses and operations of the companies, which could have a material and adverse effect on the companies. Further, as previously described, BBX Capital’s shareholders are entitled to appraisal rights in connection with the consummation of the merger, and, if the merger is consummated, 41 payments made to BBX Capital’s shareholders who exercise appraisal rights may materially adversely impact BFC’s cash position following the merger. See also the risk factors above entitled “BFC will face risks and uncertainties with respect to any acquisitions which it pursues in the future” and “Substantial sales of BFC’s Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock could adversely affect the market prices of such securities.” Provisions in BFC's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as BFC's shareholder rights plan, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire BFC and could impact the price of BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. BFC's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of BFC or its management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of BFC's Class A Common Stock or Class B Common Stock. These provisions include: · the provisions in BFC's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the special voting rights of BFC's Class B Common Stock; · subject to the special class voting rights of holders of BFC’s Class B Common Stock under certain circumstances, the authority of BFC's board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; and · advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. In addition, BFC currently has in place a shareholder rights plan which is designed to preserve certain tax benefits available to BFC. However, because the rights plan provides a deterrent to investors from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, it may have an anti-takeover effect. BBX Capital's Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain similar provisions as those described above. See "Risks Related to BBX Capital.” Dividends and distributions from BFC’s subsidiaries to their respective parent companies may be subject to claims in the future from creditors of the subsidiary. Subsidiaries have in the past and may in the future make dividends or distributions to their parent companies. During 2013, Bluegreen paid dividends totaling $47 million to its parent company, Woodbridge, and Woodbridge paid dividends totaling $23.9 million to BFC and $20.4 million to BBX Capital. Dividend payments and other distributions by a subsidiary to its parent company may, in certain circumstances, be subject to claims made by creditors of the subsidiary which made the payment or distribution. Any such claim, if successful, may have a material adverse impact on the financial condition of the parent company against which the claim was brought. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on BFC’s financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports BFC files with the SEC, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the amortization/accretion of purchase accounting fair value differences and the future value of goodwill and other intangible assets pursuant to applicable accounting guidance. BFC bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that BFC believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future. As a result, BFC's estimates, judgments and assumptions may prove to be incorrect and BFC's actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. If any estimates, judgments or 42 assumptions change in the future, or BFC's actual results differ from BFC's estimates or assumptions, BFC may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges, which would be recorded as a charge against its earnings and could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and operating results. BFC’s investment in BBX Capital is subject to equity pricing risks. BBX Capital's Class A Common Stock is currently listed for trading on the NYSE. Because BBX Capital is consolidated in BFC's financial statements, the decline in the market price of BBX Capital's Class A Common Stock would not impact BFC's consolidated financial statements. However, the market price of BFC's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, which is important to its valuation and ability to obtain equity or debt financing, would likely be adversely affected by a decline in the market price of BBX Capital's Class A Common Stock. The market price of BBX Capital's Class A Common Stock is subject to a number of factors, many of which may he beyond the control of BBX Capital, including general economic trends and conditions. In addition, BFC's control position with respect to BBX Capital may have an adverse effect on the market price of BBX Capital's Class A. Common Stock. If the currently proposed merger between BFC and BBX Capital is completed, BBX Capital's Class A Common Stock will no longer be publicly traded. Certain members of BFC’s board of directors and certain of BFC's executive officers are also directors and executive officers of BBX Capital and directors of Bluegreen. Alan B. Levan, BFC's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John E. Abdo, BFC's Vice Chairman, are also directors and executive officers of BBX Capital and directors of Bluegreen. None of these individuals is obligated to allocate a specific amount of time to the management of BFC, and they may devote more time and attention to the operations of BFC's affiliates than they devote directly to BFC's operations. Each of Jarett S. Levan and Seth M. Wise, who serve as Executive Vice Presidents of BFC and as members of its board of directors, is an executive officer of BBX Capital, and Mr. Jarett Levan is also a member of BBX Capital's board of directors. Further, John K. Grelle serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of both BFC and BBX Capital. Pending legal proceedings and the impact of any finding of liability or damages could adversely impact BFC and its financial condition and operating results. BFC and its subsidiaries are subject to the pending legal proceedings described in "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings," including, but not limited to, the above-described appraisal rights litigation arising from the 2009 merger between BFC and Woodbridge Holdings Corporation and the SEC action against BBX Capital and its Chairman, as well as proceedings that may arise from time to time. While BFC believes that the parties to these proceedings have meritorious defenses in the pending legal actions, the ultimate outcomes of these matters are uncertain. Judgments against, or damages, fines or penalties imposed on, BFC, its subsidiaries or its officers or directors in these actions, as well as actions which BFC and its subsidiaries may face in the future, may have a material adverse impact on BFC's operating results and financial condition. BFC and its subsidiaries are subject to environmental laws related to their real estate activities and the cost of compliance could adversely affect the businesses of BFC and its subsidiaries. As current or previous owners or operators of real property, BFC and its subsidiaries may be liable under federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. These laws often impose liability whether or not BFC or its subsidiaries knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. 43 RISKS RELATED TO BLUEGREEN Bluegreen is subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to or arising out of the nature of its business and general business, economic, financing, legal and other factors or conditions that may affect Bluegreen. Moreover, Bluegreen operates in a very competitive, highly regulated and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to either predict all risk factors, or assess the impact of all risk factors on Bluegreen’s business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may affect Bluegreen’s business. Bluegreen’s business and operations, including its ability to market VOIs, is subject to risks relating to general economic conditions and the availability of financing. Bluegreen’s business has been adversely affected by unfavorable general economic and industry conditions, including high unemployment rates and job insecurity, declines in discretionary spending, housing values and availability of financing, and geopolitical conflicts. If recent recovery trends do not continue or economic conditions deteriorate, Bluegreen’s business and results may be adversely impacted, particularly if financing for Bluegreen or for its customers is unavailable or if changes in general economic conditions or other factors adversely affect Bluegreen’s customers’ ability to pay amounts owed under notes receivable. Further, adverse changes affecting the vacation ownership industry, such as an oversupply of vacation ownership units, a reduction in demand for such units, changes in travel and vacation patterns, changes in governmental regulation of the industry, imposition of increased taxes by governmental authorities, the declaration of bankruptcy and/or credit defaults by other vacation ownership companies and negative publicity for the industry, could also have a material adverse effect on Bluegreen’s business. In addition, Bluegreen's operations and results may be negatively impacted if Bluegreen is unable to update its business strategy over time and from time to time in response to changing market conditions and economic indicators. The vacation ownership and hospitality industries are highly competitive, and Bluegreen may not be able to compete successfully. Bluegreen competes with various high profile and well-established operators, many of which have greater liquidity and financial resources than Bluegreen. Many of the world's most recognized lodging, hospitality and entertainment companies develop and sell VOIs in resort properties. Bluegreen also competes with numerous smaller owners and operators of vacation ownership resorts. Bluegreen's ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain customers depends on its customers' satisfaction with its products and services as well as on distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of its products and services from those offered by its competitors. Customer dissatisfaction with experiences at its resorts or otherwise as a member of the Bluegreen Vacation Club, including due to an inability to use points for desired stays, could result in negative publicity and/or a decrease in sales, or otherwise adversely impact Bluegreen's ability to successfully compete in the vacation ownership and hospitality industries. Bluegreen may not be able to timely and sufficiently identify and remediate the cause of customer dissatisfaction. Any of these events could materially and adversely impact Bluegreen's operating results and financial condition. Bluegreen would incur substantial losses and Bluegreen’s liquidity position could be adversely impacted if the customers to whom Bluegreen provides financing default on their obligations. Prior to December 15, 2008, Bluegreen did not perform credit checks on the purchasers of its VOIs in connection with Bluegreen’s financing of their purchases. Effective December 15, 2008, Bluegreen implemented a FICO® score-based credit underwriting program. Bluegreen enhanced this credit underwriting program starting in January 2010. While Bluegreen’s loan portfolio originated after December 15, 2008 has to date experienced defaults at a lower rate than loans originated prior to that date, Bluegreen’s FICO® score-based underwriting standards may not continue to result in decreased default rates or otherwise result in the improved performance of Bluegreen’s notes receivable. Adverse conditions in the mortgage industry, including both credit sources, as well as, borrowers’ financial profiles, and other factors outside Bluegreen’s control may increase the default rates Bluegreen experiences or otherwise negatively impact the performance of its notes receivable. Although in many cases Bluegreen may have recourse against a buyer for the unpaid purchase price, certain states have laws that limit Bluegreen’s ability to recover personal judgments against customers who have defaulted on their loans or the cost of doing so may not be justified. Historically, Bluegreen has generally not pursued such recourse against its customers. In the case of Bluegreen’s notes receivable secured by VOIs, if Bluegreen is unable to collect the defaulted amount due, Bluegreen traditionally has terminated the customer’s interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club and then remarketed the recovered VOI. Irrespective of Bluegreen’s remedy in the event of a default, Bluegreen cannot recover the marketing, selling and administrative costs associated with the original sale and such costs generally exceed the cash received by Bluegreen from the buyer at the 44 time of the sale. In addition, Bluegreen will need to incur such costs again in order to resell the VOI. If default rates for Bluegreen’s borrowers remain at current levels or increase, Bluegreen may be required to increase its provision for credit losses. In addition, it may cause buyers of, or lenders whose loans are secured by, Bluegreen’s VOI notes receivable to reduce the amount of availability or advance rates under receivables purchase and credit facilities, or to increase the interest costs associated with such facilities. In such an event, the cost of financing may increase and Bluegreen may not be able to secure replacement or alternative financing on terms acceptable to Bluegreen, if at all, which would adversely affect Bluegreen’s earnings, financial position and liquidity. Under the terms of Bluegreen’s pledged and receivable sale facilities, Bluegreen may be required, under certain circumstances, to replace receivables or to pay down the loan to within permitted loan-to-value ratios. Additionally, the terms of Bluegreen’s securitization-type transactions require Bluegreen to repurchase or replace loans if Bluegreen breaches any of the representations and warranties Bluegreen made at the time Bluegreen sold the receivables. These agreements also often include provisions that in the event of defaults or delinquencies by customers in excess of stated thresholds, or if other performance thresholds are not met, will require substantially all of Bluegreen’s cash flow from its retained interest in the receivable portfolios sold to be paid to the parties who purchased the receivables from Bluegreen. In addition, Bluegreen guaranteed certain payments under the Legacy Securitization (described in further detail in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Substantially all of the timeshare receivables backing the notes subject to the Legacy Securitization were generated prior to December 15, 2008, when Bluegreen implemented its FICO® score-based credit underwriting program, and relate to loans to borrowers with FICO® scores below 600. While Bluegreen has attempted to restructure its business to reduce its need for and reliance on financing for liquidity in the short term, there is no assurance that such restructuring will be successful or that Bluegreen’s business and profitability will not otherwise continue to depend on its ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Bluegreen offers financing of up to 90% of the purchase price to purchasers of Bluegreen’s VOIs. However, Bluegreen incurs selling, marketing and administrative cash expenditures prior to and concurrent with the sale. These costs generally exceed the down payment Bluegreen receives at the time of the sale. Accordingly, Bluegreen’s ability to borrow against or sell its notes receivable has historically been a critical factor in Bluegreen’s continued liquidity, and Bluegreen therefore has depended on funds from its credit facilities and securitization transactions to finance its operations. The disruption in the credit markets, which began in 2007, made obtaining additional and replacement external sources of liquidity more difficult and more costly. The number of banks and other finance companies willing to provide “warehouse” lines of credit for VOI receivables decreased, and the term securitization market was unavailable for an extended period of time. If Bluegreen’s pledged receivables facilities terminate or expire and Bluegreen is unable to extend them or replace them with comparable facilities, or if Bluegreen is unable to continue to participate in securitization-type transactions and “warehouse” facilities on acceptable terms, Bluegreen’s liquidity, cash flow and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, financing for real estate acquisition and development and the capital markets for corporate debt have been limited. In response to these conditions, during 2008, Bluegreen adopted initiatives, which included limiting sales and encouraging higher down payments on sales, in an attempt to conserve cash. Bluegreen also has increased its focus on expanding its fee-based service business. However, there is no assurance that Bluegreen’s implementation of these initiatives will enhance its financial position or otherwise be successful. If these initiatives do not have their intended results, Bluegreen’s financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. Notwithstanding the initiatives implemented by Bluegreen since 2008 to improve its cash position, Bluegreen anticipates that it will continue to seek and use external sources of liquidity, including funds that Bluegreen obtains pursuant to additional borrowings under its existing credit facilities, under credit facilities that Bluegreen may obtain in the future, under securitizations in which Bluegreen may participate in the future or pursuant to other borrowing arrangements, to: · support Bluegreen’s operations and pay dividends; · finance the acquisition and development of VOI inventory or property and equipment; · finance a substantial percentage of Bluegreen’s sales; and · satisfy Bluegreen’s debt and other obligations. Bluegreen’s ability to service or to refinance its indebtedness or to obtain additional financing (including its ability to consummate future term securitizations) depends on the credit markets and on its future performance, which is subject to a number of factors, including the success of Bluegreen’s business, results of operations, leverage, financial condition and business prospects, prevailing interest rates, general economic conditions, the performance of Bluegreen’s receivables portfolio, and perceptions about the vacation ownership and real estate industries. Further, reputational and other risks to both the lender and to Bluegreen associated with the 2007 bankruptcy of Levitt and 45 Sons, LLC, a former wholly owned homebuilding subsidiary of Woodbridge, and the lawsuit brought by the SEC against BBX Capital and its Chairman, Alan B. Levan, who is also Chairman of Bluegreen’s board of directors and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC, may be considered by lenders in connection with both making and renewing extensions of credit. As of December 31, 2013, Bluegreen had $7.4 million of indebtedness scheduled to become due during 2014. Historically, much of Bluegreen’s debt has been renewed or refinanced in the ordinary course of business. However, Bluegreen may not in the future be able to obtain sufficient external sources of liquidity on attractive terms, or at all, or otherwise renew, extend or refinance all or any portion of its outstanding debt. Any of these occurrences may have a material and adverse impact on Bluegreen’s liquidity and financial condition. Bluegreen's indebtedness may impact its financial condition and results of operations, and the terms of Bluegreen's indebtedness may limit its activities. Bluegreen's level of debt and debt service requirements have several important effects on Bluegreen's operations. Significant debt service cash requirements reduce the funds available for operations and future business opportunities and increase Bluegreen's vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, as well as conditions in the credit markets generally. In addition, Bluegreen's leverage position increases its vulnerability to economic and competitive pressures and may limit funds available for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, and other general corporate purposes. Further, the financial covenants and other restrictions contained in indentures, credit agreements and other agreements relating to Bluegreen's indebtedness require Bluegreen to meet certain financial tests and restrict Bluegreen's ability to, among other things, pay dividends, borrow additional funds, dispose of assets or make investments. If Bluegreen fails to comply with the terms of its debt instruments, such debt may become due and payable immediately, which would have a material adverse impact on Bluegreen's cash position and financial condition. Significant resources may be required to monitor Bluegreen's compliance with its debt instruments (from a quantitative and qualitative perspective), and such monitoring efforts may not be effective in all cases. The ratings of third-party rating agencies could adversely impact Bluegreen’s ability to obtain, renew or extend credit facilities, or otherwise raise funds. Rating agencies from time to time review prior corporate and specific transaction ratings in light of tightened ratings criteria. In June 2013, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services raised Bluegreen’s credit rating to a ‘B’ from a ‘B-’with a “stable” outlook. If rating agencies were to downgrade Bluegreen’s corporate credit ratings, Bluegreen’s ability to raise funds on favorable terms, or at all, and Bluegreen’s liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, if rating agencies downgraded their original ratings on certain bond classes in Bluegreen’s securitizations, holders of such bonds may be required to sell bonds in the marketplace, and such sales could occur at a discount, which could impact the perceived value of the bonds and Bluegreen’s ability to sell future bonds on favorable terms or at all. While Bluegreen is not currently aware of any reasonably likely downgrades to its corporate credit rating or the ratings of bond classes in its securitizations, such ratings changes can occur without advance notice. Bluegreen’s future success depends on its ability to market its products and services successfully and efficiently, and Bluegreen’s marketing expenses may increase. Bluegreen competes for customers with hotel and resort properties and other vacation ownership resorts. The identification of sales prospects and leads, and the marketing of Bluegreen’s products and services to them are essential to its success. Bluegreen has incurred and will continue to incur the expenses associated with marketing programs in advance of closing sales to the leads that Bluegreen identifies. If Bluegreen’s lead identification and marketing efforts do not yield enough leads or Bluegreen is unable to successfully convert sales leads to sales, Bluegreen may be unable to recover the expense of its marketing programs and systems and its business, operating results and financial conditions would be adversely affected. In addition, Bluegreen has in past years made a significant percentage of its sales to existing owners, which typically carry a relatively lower marketing cost. However, Bluegreen is currently focusing its marketing efforts on selling to new customers, which has increased and is expected to continue to increase Bluegreen’s sales and marketing expenses as compared to periods of increased sales to existing customers. If Bluegreen is not successful in offsetting the cost increase with greater sales revenue, Bluegreen’s operating results and financial condition would be adversely impacted by such change. In addition, Bluegreen's marketing efforts are subject to the risk of changing consumer behavior. Changes in consumer behavior may adversely impact the effectiveness of marketing efforts and strategies which Bluegreen has in place, and Bluegreen may not be able to timely respond to such changes. Bluegreen generates a significant portion of its new sales prospects and leads through its arrangements with various third parties, including Bass Pro and Choice Hotels. If these arrangements do not generate a sufficient number of leads 46 or are terminated or limited and not replaced by other sources of sales prospects and leads, Bluegreen may not be able to maintain its current sales levels or achieve its goals relating to the percentage of sales to new customers. This would adversely impact Bluegreen’s operating results and financial condition. Bluegreen may not be successful in increasing or expanding its “capital-light” business relationships and activities, including fee based, sales and marketing, just-in-time VOI arrangements, and Secondary Market Sales activities, and such activities may not be profitable, which may have an adverse impact on Bluegreen’s results of operations and financial condition. In July 2009, Bluegreen began offering fee-based marketing, sales, resort management and other services to third-party developers. During 2012 and 2013, Bluegreen continued to expand its capital-light business strategy, which Bluegreen believes enables it to leverage its expertise in sales and marketing, resort management, mortgage servicing, construction management and title services. Bluegreen currently intends for its capital-light business activities to become an increasing portion of its business over time as such activities generally produce positive cash flow and typically require less capital investment than Bluegreen’s traditional vacation ownership business. Bluegreen has attempted to structure these activities to cover its costs and generate a profit. However, Bluegreen’s capital-light business strategy remains relatively new and Bluegreen has limited experience in its operation. In addition, while Bluegreen’s fee-based marketing and sales services do not require Bluegreen to use its receivable credit facility capacity, Bluegreen’s clients typically have to maintain their own receivable-backed credit facilities. Should Bluegreen’s clients not be able to maintain their facilities, Bluegreen’s fee based marketing and sales business could be materially adversely impacted. Sales of third party developers' VOIs must generate sufficient cash to comply with the terms of the developers' financing obligations as well as to pay the fees or commissions due Bluegreen. The third party developers may not be able to obtain or maintain financing necessary for its operations, which could impact Bluegreen's ability to sell the developers' inventory. While Bluegreen could attempt to structure other arrangements, including just-in-time arrangements, where Bluegreen would utilize its receivable credit facilities in order to provide fee-based marketing and sales services, this would reduce the credit otherwise available to Bluegreen. Bluegreen commenced its “capital-light” activities largely during the recession in response to poor economic conditions and Bluegreen’s fee-based and other capital-light business activities in the future may be adversely impacted by changes in economic conditions. While Bluegreen performs fee-based sales and marketing services, Bluegreen sells VOIs in a resort developed by a third party as an interest in the Bluegreen Vacation Club. This subjects Bluegreen to a number of risks typically associated with selling products developed by others under its own brand name, including litigation risks. Additionally, demand for the third party resorts may be below Bluegreen’s expectations and the third party developers may not satisfy their obligations. During 2012 and 2013, Bluegreen began selling VOI inventory in connection with a new category of sales requiring low levels of capital deployment whereby Bluegreen acquires VOI inventory from its resorts’ POAs on a non-committed basis, in close proximity to the timing of when Bluegreen intends to sell such VOIs. VOIs purchased from POAs are typically obtained by the POAs, generally through foreclosure in connection with maintenance fee defaults and are generally acquired by Bluegreen at a significant discount. While Bluegreen intends to increase its Secondary Market Sales efforts in the future, Bluegreen may not be successful in doing so, and in any event these efforts may not result in Bluegreen achieving improved results. Bluegreen’s results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted if Bluegreen does not continue to participate in exchange networks and other strategic alliances with third parties or if Bluegreen’s customers are not satisfied with the networks in which Bluegreen participates or Bluegreen’s strategic alliances. Bluegreen believes that its participation in exchange networks and other strategic alliances and its Traveler Plus™ program make ownership of Bluegreen VOIs more attractive by providing owners with the ability to take advantage of vacation experiences in addition to stays at Bluegreen resorts. A VOI owner’s participation in the RCI exchange network allows an owner to exchange their annual VOI for occupancy at over 4,000 participating resorts, based upon availability and the payment of a variable exchange fee. During 2013, approximately 9% of Bluegreen owners utilized the RCI exchange network for an exchange of two or more nights. Bluegreen also entered into strategic alliance agreements with Choice Hotels in January 2013. Subject to the terms and conditions of the agreements, including specified timelines and payments to be made by Bluegreen to Choice Hotels, certain of Bluegreen’s resorts will be branded as part of Choice Hotels Ascend Resort Collection™ and Ascend Hotel Collection®. In addition, Bluegreen’s Traveler Plus™ members have the ability to convert their Bluegreen Vacation Club points into Choice Privileges® points which can be used for stays at participating Choice Hotels or may convert their Bluegreen Vacation Club points to stay at Ascend Collection hotels. In addition, all Bluegreen Vacation Club members may convert their Bluegreen Vacation Club points for Choice Privileges® points for a fee. Bluegreen Vacation Club members, for an additional annual fee, may also participate in the Bluegreen Traveler Plus™ program, which allows them to use their points for a variety of hotel stays, RV site stays within the “Coast to Coast" network, or various cruise vacations. Also, for a 47 nominal fee, Bluegreen Vacation Club owners who purchased or upgraded their VOI since July 1, 2007 and participate in the Bluegreen Traveler Plus™ program, have the ability to use their vacation points to reserve accommodations in 36 additional resort locations through Direct Exchange. Bluegreen may not be able or desire to continue to participate in the RCI or Direct Exchange networks at some point in the future. In addition, these networks and Bluegreen’s Traveler Plus™ program may not continue to operate effectively, and Bluegreen’s customers may not continue to be satisfied with them. Further, Bluegreen’s relationship with Choice Hotels may not be well received by Bluegreen’s customers or otherwise result in the benefits Bluegreen expects to derive from the relationship. In addition, Bluegreen may not be successful in identifying or entering into new strategic relationships in the future. If any of these events should occur, Bluegreen’s results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. The resale market for VOIs could adversely affect Bluegreen’s business. Based on Bluegreen’s experience at its resorts and at destination resorts owned by third parties, Bluegreen believes that resales of VOIs in the secondary market generally are made at net sales prices below the original customer purchase prices. The relatively lower sales prices are partly attributable to the high marketing and sales costs associated with the initial sales of such VOIs. Accordingly, the initial purchase of a VOI may be less attractive to prospective buyers and buyers who seek to resell their VOIs compete with Bluegreen’s efforts to sell VOIs. While VOI resale clearing houses or brokers currently do not have a material impact on Bluegreen’s business, the availability of resale VOIs at lower prices, particularly if an organized and liquid secondary market develops, could adversely affect Bluegreen sales prices and the number of sales Bluegreen can close, which in turn would adversely affect Bluegreen’s business and results of operations. Bluegreen is subject to the risks of the real estate market and the risks associated with real estate development, including the decline in real estate values and the deterioration of other conditions relating to the real estate market and real estate development. Real estate markets are cyclical in nature and highly sensitive to changes in national and regional economic conditions, including: · levels of unemployment; · levels of discretionary disposable income; · levels of consumer confidence; · the availability of financing; · overbuilding or decreases in demand; · interest rates; and · federal, state and local taxation methods. The adverse trends experienced in the real estate market beginning in 2007 exerted pressure upon Bluegreen, and have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on Bluegreen’s operations. Further, while general economic trends have recently shown signs of improvement, a deterioration in general economic conditions or continued adverse conditions in the real estate market would have a material adverse effect on Bluegreen’s business. To the extent Bluegreen decides to acquire more real estate inventory in the future, the availability of land for development of resort properties at favorable prices at that time will be critical to Bluegreen’s profitability and the ability to cover its significant selling, general and administrative expenses, cost of capital and other expenses. If Bluegreen is unable to acquire such land or resort properties at a favorable cost, Bluegreen’s results of operations may be materially, adversely impacted. While Bluegreen believes that the property Bluegreen has purchased at its adjusted carrying amounts will generate appropriate margins, land prices remain significantly below historical levels, and the projects Bluegreen acquired prior to or during the recent economic downturn may have been purchased at higher price levels than available in the current market. The profitability of Bluegreen’s real estate development activities is also impacted by the cost of construction materials and services. Should the cost of construction materials and services rise, the ultimate cost of Bluegreen’s future resorts inventory when developed could increase and have a material, adverse impact on Bluegreen’s results of operations. Adverse outcomes in legal or other regulatory procedures, including claims for development-related defects, could adversely affect Bluegreen’s financial condition and operating results. In the ordinary course of business, Bluegreen is subject to litigation, legal and regulatory proceedings, which result in significant expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. In addition, litigation is inherently uncertain, and 48 adverse outcomes in the litigation and other proceedings to which Bluegreen is subject could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Bluegreen engages third-party contractors to construct its resorts. Bluegreen also historically engaged third-party contractors to develop the communities within its former Bluegreen Communities business. However, Bluegreen’s customers may assert claims against Bluegreen for construction defects or other perceived development defects, including, without limitation, structural integrity, the presence of mold as a result of leaks or other defects, water intrusion, asbestos, electrical issues, plumbing issues, road construction, water and sewer defects and defects in the engineering of amenities. In addition, certain state and local laws may impose liability on property developers with respect to development defects discovered in the future. Bluegreen could have to accrue a significant portion of the cost to repair such defects in the quarter when such defects arise or when the repair costs are reasonably estimable. In addition, liabilities related to Bluegreen Communities that were not assumed by Southstar in connection with its purchase of substantially all of the assets which comprised Bluegreen Communities on May 4, 2012, including those relating to Bluegreen Communities’ operations prior to the closing of the transaction, remain Bluegreen’s responsibility. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings” for a description of currently pending legal matters with respect to Bluegreen. A significant number of claims for development-related defects could adversely affect Bluegreen’s liquidity, financial condition and operating results. Bluegreen may be adversely affected by extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations and changes in applicable laws and regulations, including with respect to the imposition of additional taxes on operations. In addition, results of audits of Bluegreen’s tax returns or those of Bluegreen’s subsidiaries may have a material and adverse impact on Bluegreen’s financial condition. The federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which Bluegreen operates have enacted extensive regulations that affect the manner in which Bluegreen markets and sells VOIs and conducts its other business operations. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of VOIs. Many states, including Florida and South Carolina, where some of Bluegreen resorts are located, extensively regulate the creation and management of timeshare resorts, the marketing and sale of timeshare properties, the escrow of purchaser funds prior to the completion of construction and closing, the content and use of advertising materials and promotional offers, the delivery of an offering memorandum and the creation and operation of exchange programs and multi-site timeshare plan reservation systems. Moreover, with regard to sales conducted in South Carolina, the closing of real estate and mortgage loan transactions must be conducted under the supervision of an attorney licensed in South Carolina and otherwise in accordance with South Carolina’s Time Sharing Transaction Procedures Act. Most states also have other laws that regulate Bluegreen’s activities, such as timeshare project registration laws, real estate licensure laws, mortgage licensure laws, sellers of travel licensure laws, anti-fraud laws, consumer protection laws, telemarketing laws, prize, gift and sweepstakes laws, and consumer credit laws. Bluegreen's management of, and dealings with, POAs, including Bluegreen's purchase of defaulted inventory from POAs in connection with its Secondary Market Sales, is also subject to state laws and resort rules and regulations, including those with respect to the establishment of budgets and expenditures, rule-making, and the imposition of maintenance assessments. Bluegreen currently is authorized to market and sell VOIs in all states in which its operations are currently conducted. If Bluegreen’s agents or employees violate applicable regulations or licensing requirements, their acts or omissions could cause the states where the violations occurred to revoke or refuse to renew Bluegreen’s licenses, render Bluegreen’s sales contracts void or voidable, or impose fines on Bluegreen based on past activities. In addition, the federal government and the states and local jurisdictions in which Bluegreen conducts business have generally enacted extensive regulations relating to direct marketing and telemarketing, including the federal government’s national “Do Not Call” list. The regulations have impacted Bluegreen’s marketing of VOIs, and Bluegreen has taken steps in an attempt to decrease its dependence on restricted calls. However, these steps have increased and are expected to continue to increase Bluegreen’s marketing costs. Bluegreen cannot predict the impact that these legislative initiatives or any other legislative measures that may be proposed or enacted in the future may have on Bluegreen’s marketing strategies and results. Further, from time to time, complaints are filed against Bluegreen by individuals claiming that they received calls in violation of applicable regulations. Currently, most states have taxed VOIs as real estate, imposing property taxes that are billed to the respective POAs that maintain the related resorts and have not sought to impose sales tax upon the sale of the VOI or accommodations tax upon the use of the VOI. From time to time, however, various states have attempted to promulgate new laws or apply existing laws impacting the taxation of VOIs to require that sales or accommodations taxes be collected. Should new state or local laws be implemented or interpreted to impose sales or accommodations taxes on VOIs, Bluegreen’s business could be materially adversely affected. 49 From time to time, consumers file complaints against Bluegreen in the ordinary course of Bluegreen’s business. Bluegreen could be required to incur significant costs to resolve these complaints or enter into consents with regulators regarding its activities. Bluegreen may not remain in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, and violations of applicable laws may have adverse implications on Bluegreen, including negative public relations, potential litigation and regulatory sanctions. The expense, negative publicity and potential sanctions associated with any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on Bluegreen’s results of operations, liquidity or financial position. In addition, VOIs may in the future be deemed to be securities under federal or state law and therefore subject to applicable securities regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on Bluegreen due to, among other things, the cost of compliance with such regulations. Environmental liabilities, including claims with respect to mold or hazardous or toxic substances, could have a material adverse impact on Bluegreen’s financial condition and operating results. Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as common law, Bluegreen may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances, including mold, located on, in or emanating from property that Bluegreen owns, leases or operates, as well as related costs of investigation and property damage at such property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether Bluegreen knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect Bluegreen’s ability to sell or lease its property or to borrow money using such property or receivables generated from the sale of such property as collateral. Noncompliance with environmental, health or safety requirements may require Bluegreen to cease or alter operations at one or more of its properties. Further, Bluegreen may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from violations of environmental regulations or from contamination associated with one or more of Bluegreen’s properties. A failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in damage to Bluegreen's reputation and/or subject Bluegreen to costs, fines, or lawsuits. Bluegreen's operations and activities require the collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of Bluegreen's customers and employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee and company data is critical to Bluegreen. If that data is inaccurate or incomplete, Bluegreen could make faulty decisions. Bluegreen's customers and employees also have a high expectation that Bluegreen will adequately protect their personal information. The information, security and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation are increasingly demanding. Bluegreen's systems may not be able to satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so. Efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data all threaten Bluegreen's information systems and records. Bluegreen's reliance on computer, Internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data could adversely impact Bluegreen's reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair Bluegreen's operations or competitive position. The nature of vacation ownership and hospitality industries requires the utilization of sophisticated technology and systems, including technology utilized for sales and marketing, mortgage servicing, property management, brand assurance and compliance, and reservation systems. These technologies require continuous updating and refinements, including as may be required to remain competitive and to comply with the legal requirements such as privacy regulations and requirements established by third parties. Bluegreen is in the process of updating its information technology platform, which has required, and is likely to continue to require, significant capital expenditures. Bluegreen's older systems which have not yet been updated may increase the risk of operational inefficiencies, financial loss and non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and Bluegreen may not be successful in updating such systems in the time frame or at the cost anticipated. Further, as a result of the rapidly changing technological environment, new systems which Bluegreen has put in place or expects to put in place in the near term may become outdated requiring new technology, and Bluegreen may not be able to replace those systems as quickly as its competition or within budgeted costs and time frames. Further, Bluegreen may not achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. 50 There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse impact on Bluegreen’s operating results and financial condition. Consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP involve making estimates, judgments and assumptions. These estimates, judgments and assumptions include, but are not limited to, those related to future cash flows, which in turn are based upon expectations of future performance given current and projected forecasts of the economy in general and the real estate markets. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, including in the event the adverse conditions in the real estate market continue for longer than expected or deteriorate further or if Bluegreen’s performance does not otherwise meet its expectations, Bluegreen may be required to record impairment charges against its earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on its operating results and financial condition. In addition, GAAP requirements as to how certain estimates are made may result, for example, in asset valuations which ultimately would not be realized if Bluegreen were to attempt to sell the asset. The loss of the services of Bluegreen’s key management and personnel could adversely affect its business. Bluegreen’s ability to successfully implement its business strategy will depend on its ability to attract and retain experienced and knowledgeable management and other professional staff, and Bluegreen may not be successful in doing so. If Bluegreen's efforts to retain and attract key management and other personnel are unsuccessful, Bluegreen's business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely impacted. 51 RISKS RELATED TO BBX CAPITAL BBX Capital is a separate public company. The following discussion was included or is derived from disclosures contained in BBX Capital’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, which was prepared by BBX Capital’s management and describes the risks that BBX Capital’s management currently believes to be material to BBX Capital’s operations. References to the “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” in the following discussion are references to BBX Capital and its subsidiaries and are not references to BFC or Bluegreen. Our business and operations and the mix of our assets significantly changed as a result of the sale of BankAtlantic to BB&T during July 2012, and our financial condition and results of operations depend on the monetization of our assets at or near their current book values and our results of operations will vary depending upon the timing of such monetization and the success of any investment of available funds. As a result of the BB&T Transaction, BBX Capital’s business and operations significantly changed from its business and operations prior to the sale of BankAtlantic. As a consequence, BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the near term, on its ability to successfully manage and monetize the assets currently held by BBX Partners, Inc. (“BBX Partners”), which held approximately $13.5 million of loans and foreclosed real estate as of December 31, 2013, the assets currently held by CAM, and the assets held in FAR, as well as on the cash flow BBX Capital receives based on its interest in FAR. Additionally, because a majority of FAR’s assets are serviced by a third party servicer, BBX Capital is also dependent on the ability and efforts of such servicer to efficiently manage and monetize the assets. Further, nonaccrual loans and real estate may not be easily salable in the event BBX Capital decides to liquidate an asset through a sale transaction. BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations will be dependent in the longer term on these factors as well as its ability to successfully invest these cash flows. If the assets held in CAM and BBX Partners and the assets held in FAR are not monetized at or near the current book values ascribed to them, or if these assets are liquidated for amounts less than book value, BBX Capital’s financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected, and its ability to successfully pursue its business goals could be adversely affected. Because a majority of these assets do not generate income on a regular basis, BBX Capital does not expect to generate significant revenue or income with respect to these assets until such time as an asset is monetized through repayments or transactions involving the sale, joint venture or development of the underlying real estate. Accordingly, BBX Capital expects its revenues and results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Our substantial investment in Woodbridge and our indirect interest in Bluegreen exposes us to the risks associated with Bluegreen and the vacation ownership industry. As previously described, we invested $71.75 million in Woodbridge during April 2013 in exchange for a 46% equity interest in Woodbridge. Woodbridge owns all of the shares of Bluegreen’s common stock which constitute Woodbridge’s primary asset. While Woodbridge and Bluegreen are not consolidated into our financial statements, our investment in Woodbridge is significant and our operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity, is dependent in part on Bluegreen’s performance and its ability to pay dividends. Bluegreen is subject to various risks and uncertainties which may impact its business and results, including, but not limited to, the following: · Bluegreen’s business and operations, including its ability to market VOIs, is subject to general economic conditions and risks generally associated with the real estate market and real estate development, including those discussed in the risk factor captioned “Investments in real estate developments directly or through joint ventures expose us to market and economic risks inherent in the real estate construction and development industry”; · Bluegreen operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment, and Bluegreen may not be able to compete successfully; · Bluegreen is subject to credit risk, including lost principal and interest, disruption to cash flows, and increased collection costs, with respect to its notes receivable, including on financing provided to purchasers of its VOIs; · Bluegreen’s business may be dependent on its ability to obtain financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and Bluegreen’s business may be adversely impacted if its customers are unable to obtain financing; 52 · Bluegreen’s indebtedness may impact its financial condition and results of operations, and the terms of Bluegreen’s indebtedness may limit its activities or its ability to take certain actions, including its ability to pay dividends; · Bluegreen’s marketing expenses may increase and Bluegreen may not be successful in maintaining and/or extending its marketing relationships or otherwise marketing its products and services successfully and efficiently; · Part of Bluegreen’s business involves fee-based services and other activities aimed at producing positive cash flow while generally requiring less capital investment than Bluegreen’s traditional vacation ownership business, Bluegreen may not be successful in expanding its fee-based services and other “capital-light” services, and such services and activities may not be viable in different economic conditions or otherwise be profitable; · Risks relating to litigation and regulatory proceedings to which Bluegreen is. or from time to time may become, subject; and · Risks relating to Bluegreen’s ability to comply with applicable law, as well as changes to laws, rules and regulations affecting Bluegreen and its business. For more detailed information regarding the risks set forth above and other risks which Bluegreen faces, see “Risk Factors – Risks Related to Bluegreen” above.. During 2013, BBX Capital received dividends totaling $20.4 million from Woodbridge following its receipt of dividends from Bluegreen. As indicated above, Bluegreen’s debt instruments contain restrictions on its ability to pay dividends. In addition, dividend payments by Bluegreen are subject to declaration by Bluegreen’s board of directors, and subsequent dividends by Woodbridge are subject to the approval of the board of directors of BFC as well as BBX Capital’s board of directors. Dividend decisions outside of our control may not be made in our best interest. If Bluegreen is unable to pay dividends or Bluegreen or Woodbridge does not otherwise pay dividends, BBX Capital’s liquidity would be materially and adversely impacted. See “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity” for additional information. Our future acquisitions may reduce earnings, require us to obtain additional financing and expose us to additional risks. Our business strategy includes investments in or acquisitions of operating companies, such as our recent acquisitions of Renin Corp. and Hoffman’s. Some of these investments and acquisitions may be material. While we will seek investments and acquisitions primarily in companies that provide opportunities for growth, we may not be successful in identifying these opportunities. Investments or acquisitions that we complete may not prove to be successful or even if successful may not initially generate income, or may generate income on an irregular basis or over a long time period, thus causing our results of operations to vary significantly on a quarterly basis and from year to year. Acquisitions may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing business, or that might otherwise offer growth opportunities. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including: · Difficulties in assimilating acquired management and operations; · Risks associated with achieving profitability, · The incurrence of significant due diligence expenses relating to acquisitions that are not completed, · Unforeseen expenses, · Risks associated with entering new markets in which we have no or limited prior experience, · The potential loss of key employees of acquired organizations, and · Risks associated with transferred assets and liabilities. We may not be able to acquire or profitably manage additional businesses, or to integrate successfully any acquired businesses, including Renin and Hoffman’s, without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. Our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we will likely face competition in making investments or acquisitions which could increase the costs associated with the investment or acquisition. Our investments or acquisitions may rely on additional debt or equity financing. The issuance of debt will result in additional leverage which could limit our operating flexibility, and the 53 issuance of equity could result in additional dilution to our then-current shareholders. In addition, such financing could consist of equity securities which have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our Class A Common Stock. If we require additional financing in the future, the financing may not be available when needed or on favorable terms, if at all. Additionally, we do not intend to seek shareholder approval of any investments or acquisitions unless required by law or regulation. We plan to conduct some of our operations through unconsolidated joint ventures with independent third parties in which we do not have a controlling interest and we may be adversely impacted by a joint venture partners’' failure to fulfill its obligations. By using joint ventures, we can reduce the amount we invest in real estate properties. However, our joint venture partners may become financially unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture agreements. Most joint ventures borrow money to help finance their activities, and although recourse on the loans is generally limited to the joint ventures and their properties, we may be required to provide financial support. If joint venture partners do not perform on their obligations, we may incur significant expenditures which may have an adverse effect on our operating results or financial condition. . Investments in real estate developments directly or through joint ventures expose us to market and economic risks inherent in the real estate construction and development industry. The real estate construction and development industry is highly competitive and subject to numerous risks which in many cases are beyond management’s control. The success of our real estate development investments is dependent on many factors, including: · Demand for or oversupply of new homes, rental apartments and commercial real estate; · Demand for commercial real estate tenants; · Real estate market values; · Changes in capitalization rates impacting real estate values; · Inventory of foreclosed homes negatively impacting selling prices; · Availability and reasonable pricing of skilled labor; · Availability and reasonable pricing of construction materials such as lumber, framing, concrete and other building materials; · Changes in laws and regulations for new construction and land entitlements involving environmental and zoning laws and regulations; · Natural disasters and severe weather conditions increasing costs, delaying construction, causing uninsured losses or reducing demand for new homes; · Availability and cost of mortgage financing for potential purchasers; · Mortgage loan interest rates; · Availability, delays and costs associated with obtaining permits, approvals or licenses necessary to develop property; and · Construction defects and product liability claims. Any of these factors could give rise to delays in the start or completion of, or increase the cost of developing a project, or could result in reduced prices and values for our developments. The decline in the Florida real estate market has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our earnings and financial condition. The deterioration in prior periods of economic conditions in the Florida residential real estate market, including the cumulative decline in median home prices in all major metropolitan areas in Florida, and the downturn in the Florida commercial real estate market, resulted in substantial non-performing loans and provision for loan losses during prior periods. The loans retained by us through CAM and FAR in the BB&T Transaction were primarily in the Florida market, and adverse changes to the Florida economy or the real estate market may negatively impact our earnings and financial condition. 54 Our loan portfolio is concentrated in loans secured by real estate, a majority of which are located in Florida, which makes us susceptible to credit losses from downturns in the real estate market. Conditions in the United States real estate market deteriorated significantly beginning in 2007, particularly in Florida. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in commercial real estate loans (most of which are located in Florida), residential mortgages (nationwide), and consumer home-equity loans (mainly in Florida). We have a heightened exposure to credit losses that may arise from this concentration as a result of the significant downturn in the Florida real estate markets. At December 31, 2013, approximately 80% of BBX Capital’s loan portfolio based on book value was located in Florida. An increase in our allowance for loan losses will result in reduced earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our borrowers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of these loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. Management evaluates the collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses that it believes is adequate based upon such factors as: · the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; · previous loan loss experience; · specific loans that have probable loss potential; · delinquency trends; · estimated fair value of the collateral; and · current economic conditions. Many of these factors are difficult to predict or estimate accurately, particularly in a changing economic environment. The process of determining the estimated losses inherent in our loan portfolio requires subjective and complex judgments and the level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect our ability to estimate the losses which may be incurred in the loan portfolio. If such evaluation is incorrect and borrower defaults cause losses exceeding the portion of the allowance for loan losses allocated to those loans, or if perceived adverse trends require us to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, the Company’s earnings could be significantly and adversely affected. Non-performing loans take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and could result in further losses in the future. At December 31, 2013, our non-performing loans totaled approximately $63.2 million or 49% of our total loan portfolio. Our non-performing loans adversely affect our net income through foreclosure costs, operating expenses and taxes. Until we monetize these loans, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to these non-performing loans. We record interest income on non-performing loans on a cash basis. When we receive the collateral in foreclosures or similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related collateral to the then fair market value, generally based on appraisals of the property obtained by us. These loans also increase our risk profile, and increases in the level of non-performing loans adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. While we seek to manage nonperforming loans, decreases in the value of these loans or deterioration in the financial condition of our borrowers, which is often impacted by economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of non-performing loans requires significant commitments of management time. FAR’s consumer loan portfolio is concentrated in home equity loans collateralized by properties located in South Florida. The decline in residential real estate prices and higher unemployment throughout Florida over the past several years has resulted in an increase in mortgage delinquencies and higher foreclosure rates. Additionally, in response to adverse conditions in the economy and real estate markets, financial institutions and other lenders have tightened underwriting standards which has limited the ability of borrowers to refinance. These conditions have adversely impacted delinquencies and credit loss trends for home equity loan portfolios. The majority of FAR’s home equity loans are residential second mortgages that exhibit higher loss severity than residential first mortgages. If home prices decline, FAR may experience higher credit losses from this loan portfolio. Since the collateral for this portfolio consists primarily of second mortgages, it is unlikely that FAR will be successful in recovering all or any 55 portion of its loan proceeds in the event of a default unless FAR is prepared to repay the first mortgage and such repayment and the costs associated with a foreclosure are justified by the value of the property. The cost and outcome of pending legal proceedings may impact the Company’s results of operations. The Company is involved in ongoing litigation which has resulted in significant selling, general and administrative expenses relating to legal and other professional fees. Pending proceedings include litigation brought by the SEC, litigation arising out of workouts and foreclosures, and legal proceedings associated with BankAtlantic’s tax certificate business. While, based on current information, we believe that we have meritorious defenses in these proceedings, we anticipate continued elevated legal and related costs in connection with the actions, and the ultimate outcomes of the matters are uncertain. Adverse market conditions may affect our business and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted as a result of the downturn in the U.S. housing and commercial real estate markets and general economic conditions. Dramatic declines in the national and, in particular, Florida housing markets over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, negatively impacted the credit performance of our loans and resulted in significant asset impairments. While we believe that real estate markets and general economic conditions have shown signs of improvement during the past year, further negative market and economic developments may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, and may impact charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. A worsening of conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions. Adverse events in Florida, where our business is currently concentrated, could adversely impact our results and future growth. Our business, the primary source of repayment for loans and the real estate collateralizing loans and real estate acquired through foreclosure settlements with borrowers are primarily concentrated in Florida. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks, as high unemployment rates, declines in the housing industry and declines in the real estate market have generally been more severe in Florida than in the rest of the country. Adverse changes in laws and regulations in Florida would have a negative impact on our revenues, financial condition and business. Further, the State of Florida is subject to the risks of natural disasters such as tropical storms and hurricanes, which may disrupt our operations, adversely impact the ability of our borrowers to timely repay their loans, adversely impact the value of any collateral securing loans and our portfolio of real estate (both held for sale and held for investment), or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The severity and impact of tropical storms, hurricanes and other weather related events are unpredictable. Renin sales are concentrated with two significant customers. A significant amount of Renin sales are to big-box home centers. These home centers in many instances have significant negotiating leverage with their vendors, and are able to affect the prices Renin receives for its products and the terms and conditions on which Renin conducts its business with them. These home centers may also reduce the number of vendors they purchase from or make significant changes in their volume of purchases. Although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for Renin’s products, the loss of a home center customer or reduced sales volume from any of these home centers would have a material adverse effect on Renin’s business. A significant portion of Renin’s business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical and outside of management’s control. A significant portion of Renin business in Canada and the United States is dependent on the levels of home improvement activity, including spending on repair and remodeling projects, and new home construction activity. Macroeconomic conditions including consumer confidence levels, fluctuations in home prices, unemployment and underemployment levels, interest rates, regulatory initiatives, and the availability of home equity loans and mortgage financing affect both discretionary spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity. Adverse changes in these factors or uncertainty regarding these macroeconomic conditions could result in a decline in spending on home improvement projects and a decline in demand for new home construction, both of which could adversely affect Renin’s results of operations. 56 Renin’s operating results would be negatively impacted if it experiences increased commodity costs or a limited availability of commodities. Renin purchases various commodities to manufacture its products, including steel, aluminum and mirror. Fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase the cost to manufacture Renin’s products. Further, increases in energy costs could increase Renin’s production costs as well as its transportation costs, each of which could negatively affect Renin’s operating results. Renin’s existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and the relative negotiating power and resistance of Renin’s home center customers to price increases make it difficult for Renin to increase selling prices to absorb increased production costs. If Renin is not able to increase the prices of its products or achieve other cost savings or productivity improvements to offset any increased commodity and production costs, its operating results could be negatively impacted. Unexpected events, such as natural disasters, severe weather and terrorist activities may disrupt Renin’s operations and increase its production costs. The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including tsunamis, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather or terrorist activities in countries or regions in which Renin’s suppliers are located could adversely affect Renin’s operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, or other unexpected events could result in temporary or long-term disruption in the delivery or supply of necessary raw materials and component products from Renin’s suppliers, which would disrupt Renin’s production capabilities and likely increase its cost of doing business. Market demand for Hoffman’s products could decline. Hoffman’s operates in highly competitive markets and competes with larger companies that have greater resources. Hoffman’s continued success is impacted by many factors, including the following: · Effective retail execution; · Appropriate advertising campaigns and marketing programs, · Adequate supply of commodities at a reasonable cost, · Oversight of product safety, · Response to changes in consumer preferences and tastes; and · Changes in consumer health concerns, including obesity and the consumption of certain ingredients. A decline in market demand for Hoffman’s products could negatively affect its operating results. Our financial performance may adversely affect our ability to access capital and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to fund operations and investment opportunities may depend on our ability to raise capital in the secondary markets and on our ability to monetize our portfolio of non-performing loans. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on, among other things, conditions in the financial markets at the time, which are outside of our control, as well as litigation and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The failure to obtain capital in amounts needed to fund operations or anticipated investments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We are controlled by BFC Financial Corporation and its controlling shareholders and this control position may adversely affect the market price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock. BFC currently owns 8,133,353 shares of our Class A Common Stock representing approximately 52% of the outstanding shares of such stock and all 195,045 outstanding shares of our Class B Common Stock representing approximately 72% of our total voting power. Additionally, Alan B. Levan, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BBX Capital and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of BFC, and John E. Abdo, Vice Chairman of 57 BBX Capital and BFC, collectively beneficially own shares of BFC’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 71% of BFC’s total voting power. BBX Capital’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock vote as a single group on most matters. Accordingly, BFC, directly, and Messrs. Levan and Abdo, indirectly through BFC, are in a position to control BBX Capital, elect BBX Capital’s board of directors and significantly influence the outcome of any shareholder vote. This control position may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A Common Stock. BFC can reduce its economic interest in us and still maintain voting control. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock generally vote together as a single class, with the Class A Common Stock possessing a fixed 53% of the aggregate voting power of the Company, and the Class B Common Stock possessing a fixed 47% of such aggregate voting power. The Company’s Class B Common Stock currently represents less than 1% of the Company’s total common equity and 47% of the Company’s total voting power. As a result, the voting power of the Company’s Class B Common Stock does not bear a direct relationship to the economic interest represented by the shares. Any issuance of shares of Class A Common Stock will further dilute the relative economic interest of the Class B Common Stock, but will not decrease the voting power represented by the Class B Common Stock. Further, our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that these relative voting percentages will remain fixed until such time as BFC and its affiliates own less than 97,253 shares of the Class B Common Stock, which is approximately 50% of the number of shares of Class B Common Stock that BFC now owns, even if additional shares of Class A Common Stock are issued. Therefore, BFC may sell up to approximately 50% of its shares of Class B Common Stock (after converting those shares to shares of Class A Common Stock), and significantly reduce its economic interest in us, while still maintaining its voting power. If BFC were to take this action, it would widen the disparity between the equity interest represented by the Class B Common Stock and its voting power. Any conversion of shares of Class B Common Stock into shares of Class A Common Stock would further dilute the voting interests of the holders of the Class A Common Stock. Provisions in our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, and our recently adopted shareholder rights plan, may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress the price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or its management. These provisions could make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A Common Stock. These provisions include: · the provisions in the Restated Articles of Incorporation regarding the voting rights of Class B Common Stock; · the authority of the board of directors to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock and to fix the relative rights and preferences of the preferred stock without additional shareholder approval; and · advance notice procedures to be complied with by shareholders in order to make shareholder proposals or nominate directors. In addition, on February 7, 2013, the Company adopted a shareholder rights plan which is designed to preserve certain tax benefits available to the Company. However, because the rights plan provides a deterrent to investors from acquiring a 5% or greater ownership interest in Class A Common Stock, it may have an anti-takeover effect. The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our operations. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of skilled individuals. Our business operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain and motivate our existing employees and attract new employees as needed. In addition, as previously described, the SEC has filed a lawsuit against the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Alan B. Levan, alleging violations of securities laws. In addition to injunctive relief and monetary penalties, the complaint seeks an officer and director bar with respect to Mr. Levan. While we believe that the Company and Mr. Levan fully complied with applicable law, the outcome of this litigation is uncertain. In the event Mr. Levan is restricted from serving, or is otherwise unable to serve, as an executive officer and/or director of BBX Capital, BBX Capital and its business, as well as the businesses of its subsidiaries, may be adversely impacted. However, the Company believes that any such adverse impact would be mitigated by the continuation of service of other executive 58 officers, including Mr. Abdo, who serves as a director and Vice Chairman of the Company and Jarett Levan, President, who previously served as President and CEO of BankAtlantic. 59 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 