Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to the Company The Company’s business success is wholly dependent on the success of Kent International. Kent’s business is comprised entirely of the management of Kent International and its subsidiaries. Accordingly, any risks affecting those companies constitute risks to Kent at the same time. 3 Risk Factors Related to Kent International Kent International’s business operations produce losses Kent International had very limited business operations during 2009 and 2008, and had net losses of $474,618 and $190,937 in 2009 and 2008, respectively. At December 31, 2009, the accumulated deficit was $89,474,026. At the end of 2009, Kent International initiated its broker-dealer operations; however, the Company does not expect that its securities broker-dealer or its business development activity will generate any significant revenues for an indefinite period as these efforts are in their early stages. As a result, these activities will produce losses until such time as meaningful revenues are achieved. The expenses related to identifying a target business and to complete a business combination will increase the losses of the Company. Until presented with a specific opportunity for a business combination, the Company is unable to ascertain with any degree of certainty the time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete the business combination. Any costs incurred in connection with the identification and evaluation of a prospective target business with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in a loss to Kent International and reduce the amount of capital otherwise available to complete a business combination and thereafter operate the acquired business. Kent International cannot assure you that it will be successful in identifying a target business and completing a business combination on terms favorable to its stockholders, if at all. The tax treatment of a potential business combination is not clear. Kent International will endeavor to structure a business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment to it and to the target business and the stockholders of both companies. Kent International cannot assure you, however, that the Internal Revenue Service or appropriate state tax authorities will agree with the Company’s tax treatment of the business combination. We have limited ability to evaluate the target business' management; we cannot anticipate what role, if any, the Company’s management will play in a combined business and whether our management has the necessary experience to manage the combined business; we do not know if we will be able to recruit more management if necessary. Although the Company intends to carefully scrutinize the management of a prospective target business before effecting a business combination, it cannot assure you that its assessment of the target's management will prove to be correct. In addition, the Company cannot assure you that the target's future management will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. Furthermore, the future role of the Company’s officers and directors, if any, in the target business cannot presently be stated with any certainty. While it is possible that one or more of the Company’s officers and directors will remain associated in some capacity following a business combination, it is uncertain whether all of them will devote their full efforts to the Company’s affairs a fter a business combination. Moreover, the Company cannot assure you that its officers and directors will have significant experience or knowledge relating to the operations of the particular target business. 4 The Company may seek to recruit additional management personnel to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. The Company cannot assure you, however, that it will be able to recruit additional managers who have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management and successfully operate the target business. In our search for an appropriate combination partner, we will have to compete with other entities with more experience and greater resources; after a successful business combination we will have to face the competitors of the operating company we combine with. Kent International may encounter intense competition from other entities seeking to combine with a privately held operating company. Many of these entities, including financial consulting companies and venture capital firms, have longer operating histories and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. Many of these competitors also possess significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than does the Company. Kent International cannot assure you that it will be able to effectively compete with these entities. Consequently, Kent International may acquire a company with less favorable prospects then it would otherwise prefer, thus making its long-term prospects for success less likely. If Kent International effects a business combination, it will become subject to competition from the competitors of the acquired business. In particular, industries that experience rapid growth frequently attract larger numbers of competitors, including competitors with greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than the Company. Kent International cannot ascertain the level of competition it will face if it effects a business combination, and it cannot assure you that it will be able to compete successfully with these competitors. Broker-Dealer Risks The securities industry is, by its nature, subject to various risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, including the risk of losses resulting from the ownership of securities, customer fraud, employee errors and misconduct and litigation. Kent Capital is engaged in an extremely competitive business and its competitors include organizations that have substantially more employees and greater financial resources. Kent Capital will also compete for investment funds with banks, insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment companies. Kent International’s social networking website might not be viewable in China. Kent International faces the risk that its website will not be viewable in China or will be deliberately blocked by the government of the People’s Republic of China. Internet usage and content are heavily regulated in China and compliance with these laws and regulations may cause it to change or limit its business practices in a manner adverse to its business. Employees As of February 26, 2010, the Company and its subsidiaries had two full-time employees. 5 