Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business operations may continue to produce losses, which would result in atrophy of the Company’s cash resources. The Company had net losses of $703,763 and $502,604 in 2011 and 2010, respectively and had very limited business operations during 2010. Although the purchase of the Property has increased revenues significantly, the Company cannot assure stockholders that it will not continue to have losses after depreciation and amortization under generally accepted accounting standards. Properties acquired by the Company: (i) may not operate at a profit; (ii) may not perform to the Company’s expectations; (iii) may not appreciate in value; (iv) may depreciate in value; and/or (v) may not ever be sold at a profit. The marketability and value of any properties will depend upon many factors beyond the Company’s control, including but not limited to general economic conditions, zoning laws, tax laws and the availability of financing. If our investments in properties do not generate sufficient income to offset our administrative expenses, the Company will continue to incur losses, which will reduce our cash resources and would be likely to reduce the market value of our common stock. 5 The Company may invest in joint ventures, the success of which would depend on the skills and fidelity of our joint venture partner. Malfeasance or misfeasance by a joint venture partner could result in a failure of the project and loss of our investment. The Company may acquire properties through joint ventures, which could subject the Company to certain risks that may not otherwise be present if investments were made directly by the Company. These risks include: (i) the potential that the Company’s joint venture partner may not perform; (ii) the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to those of the Company; (iii) the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to the requests or instructions of the Company or contrary to the Company’s objectives or policies; and (iv) the joint venture partners may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. Properties that we acquire may have previously suffered release of hazardous materials or otherwise be out of compliance with environmental regulations, the remediation of which could result in significant expenses for the Company. Various federal, state and local laws and regulations subject property owners and operators to liability for reporting, investigating, remediating, and monitoring regulated hazardous substances released on or from a property. These laws and regulations often impose strict liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or actually caused, the release. The presence of, or the failure to properly report, investigate, remediate, or monitor hazardous substances could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company or the ability of the Company to operate the properties. In addition, these factors could hinder the Company’s ability to borrow against the properties. The presence of hazardous substances on a property also could result in personal injury or similar claims by private plaintiffs. In addition, there are federal, state and local laws and regulations which impose requirements on the storage, use, management and disposal of regulated hazardous materials or substances. The failure to comply with those requirements could result in the imposition of liability, including penalties or fines, on the owner or operator of the properties. Future laws or regulations could also impose unanticipated material environmental liabilities on the Company in connection with any of the properties. The costs of complying with these environmental laws and regulations for the Company’s properties could adversely affect the Company’s operating costs and, if contamination is present, the value of those properties. Real properties are illiquid investments. If we are unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions or sell properties if or when we decide to do so, we may suffer a significant reduction in the value of our assets. Real properties are illiquid investments and we may be unable to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, the real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, all of which are beyond our control. Particularly in light of the current economic conditions, we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective buyer would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing buyer and to close the sale of a property or the disposition of properties that are in default. In addition, the availability of financing and current market conditions may delay or prevent the closing of a sale of a property even if the price and other terms of the transaction were acceptable to us. The foregoing could mean that we may be unable to complete the sale of identified properties in the near term or at all. 6 Because our rental income currently is dependent on a single tenant, any disruption of our relationship with that tenant would eliminate most of the Company’s revenue and cause a reduction in our cash reserves. The General Services Administration (“GSA”) currently occupies 100% of our total rentable space and is responsible for 100% of our anticipated rental income. Although leases with GSA are not subject to annual appropriation as a part of the budget process for the Federal Government, Federal fiscal issues may cause the GSA to vacate the property at the end of the lease term. If our insurance is not adequate to cover a catastrophic loss to our Properties, a catastrophe could result in a serious loss or, in the extreme, the bankruptcy of the Company. There are certain types of risks, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, windstorms, act of war and terrorist attacks that may be uninsurable, or are not economically insurable, or are not fully covered by insurance. Moreover, certain risks, such as mold and environmental exposures, generally are not covered by our insurance. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose our equity in the affected property as well as the anticipated future cash flow from that property. Any such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act, the cost of complying with that Act would harm our results of operations and the regulations under the Act would significantly limit our business opportunities. We intend to conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. That Act imposes significant restrictions on the business activities of public entities which have a certain percentage of their assets invested in “investment securities.” Our desire to avoid regulation under the Act will limit the type of investments that we can make. In the first instance, we will generally seek to invest in entities in which we will hold 50% or more of the voting control, since such investments are excluded from the definition of “investment securities.” The Investment Company Act also exempts from regulation entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on, and interests in, real estate. Under the current interpretation of the SEC staff, in order to qualify for this exemption, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in these qualifying real estate interests. However, not all real estate investments are qualifying real estate interests for purposes of this exemption. In particular, investments in limited partnership interests are not considered to qualify. Therefore, if we seek to qualify for the real estate company exemption, the type of investments that we can make will be further limited. The analysis relating to whether a company qualifies as an investment company can involve technical and complex rules and regulations. If we own assets that qualify as “investment securities” as such term is defined under the Investment Company Act and the value of such assets exceeds 40% of the value of our total assets, we could be deemed to be an investment company and be required to register under the Investment Company Act. Registered investment companies are subject to a variety of substantial requirements that could significantly impact our operations. The costs and expenses we would incur to register and operate as an investment company, as well as the limitations placed on our operations, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and your investment return. In order to operate in a manner to avoid being required to register as an investment company, we may be unable to purchase assets we would otherwise want to purchase or we may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. This situation may impede our efforts to achieve profitable operations. 7 The expenses related to identifying a target business and to completing a business combination will increase the losses of the Company. Until presented with a specific opportunity for a business combination, the Company is unable to ascertain with any degree of certainty the time and costs required to select and evaluate a target business and to structure and complete the business combination. Any costs incurred in connection with the identification and evaluation of a prospective target business with which a business combination is not ultimately completed will result in a loss and reduce the amount of capital otherwise available to complete a business combination and thereafter operate the acquired business. The Company cannot assure you that it will be successful in identifying a target business and completing a business combination on terms favorable to its stockholders, if at all. The tax treatment of a potential business combination is not clear. The Company will endeavor to structure a business combination so as to achieve the most favorable tax treatment to it and to the target business and the stockholders of both companies. The Company cannot assure you; however, that the Internal Revenue Service or appropriate state tax authorities will agree with the Company’s tax treatment of the business combination. We have limited ability to evaluate the target business' management; we cannot anticipate what role, if any, the Company’s management will play in a combined business and whether our management has the necessary experience to manage the combined business; we do not know if we will be able to recruit more management if necessary. Although the Company intends to carefully scrutinize the management of a prospective target business before effecting a business combination, it cannot assure you that its assessment of the target's management will prove to be correct. In addition, the Company cannot assure you that the target's future management will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. Furthermore, the future role of the Company’s officers and directors, if any, in the target business cannot presently be stated with any certainty. While it is possible that one or more of the Company’s officers and directors will remain associated in some capacity following a business combination, it is uncertain whether all of them will devote their full efforts to the Company’s affairs after a business combination. Moreover, the Company cannot assure you that its officers and directors will have significant experience or knowledge relating to the operations of the particular target business. The Company may seek to recruit additional management personnel to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. The Company cannot assure you, however, that it will be able to recruit additional managers who have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management and successfully operate the target business. In our search for an appropriate combination partner, we will have to compete with other entities with more experience and greater resources; after a successful business combination we shall have to face the competitors of the operating company we combine with. 8 The Company may encounter intense competition from other entities seeking to combine with a privately held operating company. Many of these entities, including financial consulting companies and venture capital firms, have longer operating histories and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations. Many of these competitors also possess significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than does the Company. The Company cannot assure you that it will be able to effectively compete with these entities. Consequently, the Company may acquire a company with less favorable prospects then it would otherwise prefer, thus making its long-term prospects for success less likely. If the Company effects a business combination, it will become subject to competition from the competitors of the acquired business. In particular, industries that experience rapid growth frequently attract larger numbers of competitors, including competitors with greater financial, marketing, technical and other resources than the Company. The Company cannot ascertain the level of competition it will face if it effects a business combination, and it cannot assure you that it will be able to compete successfully with these competitors. Broker-Dealer Risks The securities industry is, by its nature, subject to various risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, including the risk of losses resulting from the ownership of securities, customer fraud, employee errors and misconduct and litigation. Kent Capital is engaged in an extremely competitive business and its competitors include organizations that have substantially more employees and greater financial resources. Kent Capital will also compete for investment funds with banks, insurance companies, hedge funds, private equity funds and other investment companies. 