Item 1a. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to the Company The Company’s business success is wholly dependent on the success of Kent International and Kent Educational. Kent’s business is comprised entirely of the management of Kent International and Kent Educational. Accordingly, any risks affecting those companies constitute risks to Kent at the same time. Risk Factors Related to Kent International For a discussion of Kent International’s risk factors, please refer to Kent International’s annual report for the year ended December 31, 2008 filed on form 10-K under SEC file no. 000-20726. All of the risk factors set forth under Item 1A of that report are incorporated herein by reference. 3 Risk Factors Related to Kent Educational The Academy is currently reviewing its strategic options. The Academy’s sole full time executive officer resigned on December 15, 2007. This individual was primarily responsible for business development and coordinating services. As a result, The Academy is currently reviewing its strategic options including hiring a replacement for the executive officer, partnering with a competitor, continuing to provide services to existing clients through an outsourcing platform, or discontinuation of services. The educational services sector in New Jersey is highly competitive. The Academy operates in a highly fragmented market with numerous small service providers and no dominant competition. There can be no assurance that The Academy will maintain or improve its competitive position or that no single competitor or group of competitors will dominate the market in the future. The resources allocated for educational purposes are unforeseeable. The allocation of resources for educational purposes is currently under great scrutiny in New Jersey. Funding for public schools in New Jersey comes from either State aid or local property taxes. Although property taxes have increased rapidly in New Jersey over the last eight years, this has not resulted in additional educational expenditures, because the State of New Jersey has at the same time reduced its aid allocated to public schools. It is impossible to foresee the future developments of property taxes and educational State aids. As public schools in New Jersey are currently our primary customer, our revenue growth is restricted by any limitation on these resources. Employees As of February 27, 2009, the Company and its subsidiaries had two full-time employees and one part-time employee. Item 