Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Hotel, Resort, Vacation Ownership and Residential Operations We Are Subject to All the Operating Risks Common to the Hotel and Vacation Ownership and Residential Industries. Operating risks common to the hotel and vacation ownership and residential industries include: • changes in general economic conditions, including the severity and duration of the current downturn in the US and global economies; • impact of war and terrorist activity (including threatened terrorist activity) and heightened travel security measures instituted in response thereto; • domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions; • travelers’ fears of exposures to contagious diseases; • decreases in the demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business travel as a result of general economic conditions; • decreases in demand or increases in supply for vacation ownership interests; • the impact of internet intermediaries on pricing and our increasing reliance on technology; • cyclical over-building in the hotel and vacation ownership industries; • restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; • changes in travel patterns; • changes in operating costs including, but not limited to, energy, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), food costs, workers’ compensation and health-care related costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including, among others, franchising, timeshare, privacy, licensing labor and employment, and regulations under the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. • disputes with owners of properties, including condominium hotels, franchisees and homeowner associations which may result in litigation; • the availability and cost of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and franchisees to fund construction, renovations and investments; • foreign exchange fluctuations; • the financial condition of third-party property owners, project developers and franchisees, which may impact our ability to recover indemnity payments that may be owed to us and their ability to fund amounts required under development, management and franchise agreements and in most cases our recourse is limited to the equity value said party has in the property; • the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on air travel; and • regulation or taxation of carbon dioxide emissions by airlines and other forms of transportation. We are also impacted by our relationships with owners and franchisees. Our hotel management contracts are typically long-term arrangements, but most allow the hotel owner to replace us in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of the hotel owner or franchisee, the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria and in certain cases, upon a sale of the property. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, the risks described in this section. Additionally, our operating results would be adversely affected if we could not maintain existing management, franchise or representation agreements or obtain new agreements on as favorable terms as the existing agreements. 6 Table of Contents We utilize our brands in connection with the residential portions of certain properties that we develop and license our brands to third parties to use in a similar manner for a fee. Residential properties using our brands could become less attractive due to changes in mortgage rates and the availability of mortgage financing generally, market absorption or oversupply in a particular market. As a result, we and our third party licensees may not be able to sell these residences for a profit or at the prices that we or they have anticipated. The Current Recession in the Lodging Industry and the Global Economy Generally Will Continue to Impact Our Financial Results and Growth. The continuing economic recession and the uncertainty over its breadth, depth and duration have had a negative impact on the hotel and vacation ownership and residential industries. Substantial increases in air and ground travel costs and decreases in airline capacity have reduced demand for our hotel rooms and interval and fractional timeshare products. Accordingly, our financial results have been impacted by the economic recession and both our future financial results and growth could be further harmed if the economic recession continues for a significant period or becomes worse. In addition, as a result of the impact on the lodging industry, we may be required to pay out on certain performance and other guarantees that are contained in our third party contracts and may have future impairments. Moreover, many businesses, particularly financial institutions, face restrictions on the ability to travel and hold conferences or events at resorts and luxury hotels. The negative publicity associated with such companies holding large events has also resulted in cancellations and reduced bookings. New or revised regulations on businesses participating in government financial assistance programs, as well as the negative publicity associated with conferences and events could continue to impact our financial results. We Must Compete for Customers. The hotel, vacation ownership and residential industries are highly competitive. Our properties compete for customers with other hotel and resort properties, and, with respect to our vacation ownership resorts and residential projects, with owners reselling their VOIs, including fractional ownership, or apartments. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do, and they may improve their facilities, reduce their prices or expand or improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our operating results. We Must Compete for Management and Franchise Agreements. Our present growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. We compete with other hotel companies for management and franchise agreements. The terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. We cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. In connection with entering into management or franchise agreements, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties. Any Failure to Protect Our Trademarks Could Have a Negative Impact on the Value of Our Brand Names and Adversely Affect Our Business. We believe our trademarks are an important component of our business. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Significant Owners of Our Properties May Concentrate Risks. Generally there has not been a concentration of ownership of hotels operated under our brands by any single owner. Following the acquisition of the Le Méridien 7 Table of Contents brand business and a large disposition transaction to one ownership group in 2006, single ownership groups own significant numbers of hotels operated by us. While the risks associated with such ownership are no different than exist generally (i.e., the financial position of the owner, the overall state of the relationship with the owner and their participation in optional programs and the impact on cost efficiencies if they choose not to participate), they are more concentrated. The Hotel Industry Is Seasonal in Nature. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature; however, the periods during which we experience higher revenue vary from property to property and depend principally upon location. Our revenue historically has been lower in the first quarter than in the second, third or fourth quarters. Third Party Internet Reservation Channels May Negatively Impact Our Bookings. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through third party internet travel intermediaries such as Travelocity.com®, Expedia.com® Orbitz.com® and Priceline.com®. As the percentage of internet bookings increases, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to our lodging brands. Although we expect to derive most of our business from traditional channels and our websites, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be significantly harmed. A Failure to Keep Pace with Developments in Technology Could Impair Our Operations Or Competitive Position. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems including technology utilized for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty program, distribution and guest amenities. These technologies can be expected to require refinements, including to comply with legal requirements such as privacy regulations and requirements established by third parties such as the payment card industry, and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. Further, the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant capital. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and timeframes for such technology. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Our Businesses Are Capital Intensive. For our owned, managed and franchised properties to remain attractive and competitive, the property owners and we have to spend money periodically to keep the properties well maintained, modernized and refurbished. This creates an ongoing need for cash and, to the extent the property owners and we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. In addition, to maintain our vacation ownership business and residential projects, we need to spend money to develop new units. Events over the past two years including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity and available capital have negatively impacted the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. Our Real Estate Investments Subject Us to Numerous Risks. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we own and lease hotels and resorts. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate hotels. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations 8 Table of Contents or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments are difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of owned properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. Our Dependence on Hotel and Resort Development Exposes Us to Timing, Budgeting and Other Risks. We intend to develop hotel and resort properties and residential components of hotel properties, as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. In addition, the owners and developers of new-build properties that we have entered into management or franchise agreements with are subject to these same risks which may impact the amount and timing of fees we had expected to collect from those properties. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; • defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; • ability to raise capital; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. We cannot assure you that any development project, including sites held for development of vacation ownership resorts, will in fact be developed, and if developed, the time period or the budget of such development may be greater than initially contemplated and the actual number of units or rooms constructed may be less than initially contemplated. We May Be Subject To Environmental Liabilities. Our properties and operations are subject to a number of Environmental Laws. Under such laws, we could be held liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under, or in our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or rent such real property or to borrow using such real property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such wastes at the treatment, storage or disposal facility, regardless of whether such facility is owned or operated by such person. We use certain substances and generate certain wastes that may be deemed hazardous or toxic under applicable Environmental Laws, and we from time to time have incurred, and in the future may incur, costs related to cleaning up contamination resulting from historic uses of certain of our current or former properties or our treatment, storage or disposal of wastes at facilities owned by others. Other Environmental Laws govern occupational exposure to ACMs and require abatement or removal of certain ACMs (limited quantities of which are present in various building materials such as spray-on insulation, floor coverings, ceiling coverings, tiles, decorative treatments and piping located at certain of our hotels) in the event of damage or demolition, or certain renovations or remodeling. Environmental Laws also regulate PCBs, which may be present in electrical equipment. A number of our hotels have USTs and equipment containing CFCs; the operation and subsequent removal or upgrading of certain USTs and the use of equipment containing CFCs also are regulated by Environmental Laws. In connection with our ownership, operation and management of our properties, we could be held liable for costs of remedial or other action with respect to PCBs, USTs or CFCs. Congress and some states are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. New or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our hotels and/or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. The cost impact of such legislation, regulation, or new interpretations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. 9 Table of Contents International Operations Are Subject to Unique Political and Monetary Risks. We have significant international operations which as of December 31, 2009 included 244 owned, managed or franchised properties in Europe, Africa and the Middle East (including 16 properties with majority ownership); 60 owned, managed or franchised properties in Latin America (including 9 properties with majority ownership); and 155 owned, managed or franchised properties in the Asia Pacific region (including 3 properties with majority ownership). International operations generally are subject to various political, geopolitical, and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. These risks include the risk of war, terrorism, civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization as well as the impact in cases in which there are inconsistencies between U.S. law and the laws of an international jurisdiction. In addition, some international jurisdictions restrict the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings. Various other international jurisdictions have laws limiting the ability of non-U.S. entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, sales in international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. Other than Italy, where our risks are heightened due to the 6 properties we owned as of December 31, 2009, our international properties are geographically diversified and are not concentrated in any particular region. Risks Relating to Operations in Syria During fiscal 2009, Starwood subsidiaries generated approximately $2 million of revenue from management and other fees from hotels located in Syria, a country that the United States has identified as a state sponsor of terrorism. This amount constitutes significantly less than 1% of our worldwide annual revenues. The United States does not prohibit U.S. investments in, or the exportation of services to, Syria, and our activities in that country are in full compliance with U.S. and local law. However, the United States has imposed limited sanctions as a result of Syria’s support for terrorist groups and its interference with Lebanon’s sovereignty, including a prohibition on the exportation of U.S.-origin goods to Syria and the operation of government-owned Syrian air carriers in the United States except in limited circumstances. The United States may impose further sanctions against Syria at any time for foreign policy reasons. If so, our activities in Syria may be adversely affected, depending on the nature of any further sanctions that might be imposed. In addition, our activities in Syria may reduce demand for our stock among certain investors. Risks Relating to Debt Financing Our Debt Service Obligations May Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow. As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to: (i) the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, (ii) restrictive covenants, including covenants relating to certain financial ratios and ability to pay dividends, and (iii) interest rate risk. Although we anticipate that we will be able to repay or refinance our existing indebtedness and any other indebtedness when it matures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that the terms of such refinancings will be favorable. Our leverage may have important consequences including the following: (i) our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if necessary, may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us and (ii) a substantial decrease in operating cash flow, EBITDA (as defined in our credit agreements) or a substantial increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and restrictive covenants and force us to sell assets and/or modify our operations. We Have Little Control Over the Availability of Funds Needed to Fund New Investments and Maintain Existing Hotels. In order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both we and current and potential hotel owners must have access to capital. The availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we have little control. Recent events have made the capital markets increasingly volatile. As a result, many current and prospective hotel owners are finding hotel financing to be increasingly expensive and difficult to obtain. Delays, increased costs and other impediments to restructuring such projects may affect our ability to realize fees, recover loans and guarantee advances, or realize equity investments from such projects. Our ability to recover loans and 10 Table of Contents guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to raise new capital. In addition, downgrades of our public debt ratings by rating agencies could increase our cost of capital. A breach of a covenant could result in an event of default, that, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. For a more detailed description of the covenants imposed by our debt obligations, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Cash Used for Financing Activities in this Annual Report. Volatility in the Credit Markets Will Continue to Adversely Impact Our Ability to Sell the Loans That Our Vacation Ownership Business Generates. Our vacation ownership business provides financing to purchasers of our vacation ownership and fractional units, and we attempt to sell interests in those loans in the securities markets. Increased volatility in the credit markets will likely continue to impact the timing and volume of the timeshare loans that we are able to sell. Although we expect to realize the economic value of our vacation ownership note portfolio even if future note sales are temporarily or indefinitely delayed, such delays could reduce or postpone future gains and could result in either increased borrowings to provide capital to replace anticipated proceeds from such sales or reduced spending in order to maintain our leverage and return targets. Risks Relating to So-Called Acts of God, Terrorist Activity and War Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by so-called acts of God, such as natural disasters, in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers. Similarly, wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife and geopolitical uncertainty have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. Risks Related to Pandemic Diseases Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of a pandemic disease on the travel industry. For example, the past outbreaks of SARS and avian flu had a severe impact on the travel industry, and the recent outbreak of swine flu in Mexico had a similar impact. A prolonged recurrence of SARS, avian flu, swine flu or another pandemic disease also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for our hotel and vacation ownership businesses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Insurance Policies May Not Cover All Potential Losses We carry insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to our owned and leased properties and we make available insurance programs for owners of properties we manage. These policies offer coverage terms and conditions that we believe are usual and customary for our industry. Generally, our “all-risk” property policies provide that coverage is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, there is a limit as well as various sub-limits on the amount of insurance proceeds we will receive in excess of applicable deductibles. In addition, there may be overall limits under the policies. Sub-limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs or landscaping replacement, and the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. Our property policies also provide that for the coverage of critical earthquake (California and Mexico), hurricane and flood, all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the annual aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and any such claims will also be combined with the claims of owners of managed hotels that participate in our insurance program for the same purpose. Therefore, if insurable events occur that affect more than one of our owned hotels and/or managed hotels owned by third parties that participate in our insurance program, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the per occurrence limit, annual aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached and if the limits or sub-limits are exceeded each affected hotel will only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy. In addition, under those circumstances, claims by third party owners will reduce the coverage available for our owned and leased properties. 11 Table of Contents In addition, there are also other risks including but not limited to war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism, political risks, some environmental hazards and/or acts of God that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. We may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel or resort, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel or resort. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Our Acquisitions/Dispositions and Investments In New Brands May Ultimately Not Prove Successful And We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits We will consider corporate as well as property acquisitions and investments that complement our business. In many cases, we will be competing for these opportunities with third parties who may have substantially greater financial resources or different or lower acceptable financial metrics than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition or investment candidates or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If transactions are consummated, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions or investments, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on restructuring and enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments and from time to time, may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or that any anticipated benefits will actually be received. We may develop and launch additional brands in the future. There can be no assurance regarding the level of acceptance of these brands in the development and consumer marketplaces, that the cost incurred in developing the brands will be recovered or that the anticipated benefits from these new brands will be realized. Investing Through Partnerships or Joint Ventures Decreases Our Ability to Manage Risk In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. Our Vacation Ownership Business is Subject to Extensive Regulation and Risk of Default We market and sell VOIs, which typically entitle the buyer to ownership of a fully-furnished resort unit for a one-week period (or in the case of fractional ownership interests, generally for three or more weeks) on either an annual or an alternate-year basis. We also acquire, develop and operate vacation ownership resorts, and provide financing to purchasers of VOIs. These activities are all subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states in which vacation ownership resorts are located and in which VOIs are marketed and sold including regulation of our telemarketing activities under state and federal “Do Not Call” laws. In addition, the laws of most states in which we sell VOIs grant the purchaser the right to rescind the purchase contract at any time within a 12 Table of Contents statutory rescission period. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations to which vacation ownership marketing, sales and operations are currently subject, changes in these requirements or a determination by a regulatory authority that we were not in compliance, could adversely affect us. In particular, increased regulations of telemarketing activities could adversely impact the marketing of our VOIs. We bear the risk of defaults under purchaser mortgages on VOIs. If a VOI purchaser defaults on the mortgage during the early part of the loan amortization period, we will not have recovered the marketing, selling (other than commissions in certain events), and general and administrative costs associated with such VOI, and such costs will be incurred again in connection with the resale of the repossessed VOI. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the sales price will be fully or partially recovered from a defaulting purchaser or, in the event of such defaults, that our allowance for losses will be adequate. Risks Related to Privacy Initiatives We collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in fines, payment of damages or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Risks Related to Our Ability to Manage Growth Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. In the past several years, we have experienced significant changes in our senior management, including executive officers (See Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this Annual Report). There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. Over the last few years we have been pursuing a strategy of reducing our investment in owned real estate and increasing our focus on the management and franchise business. As a result, we are planning on substantially increasing the number of hotels we open every year and increasing the overall number of hotels in our system. This increase will require us to recruit and train a substantial number of new associates to work at these hotels as well as increasing our capabilities to enable hotels to open on time and successfully. There can be no assurance that our strategy will be successful. Tax Risks Failure of the Trust to Qualify as a REIT Would Increase Our Tax Liability. Qualifying as a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) requires compliance with highly technical and complex tax provisions that courts and administrative agencies have interpreted only to a limited degree. Due to the complexities of our ownership, structure and operations, the Trust is more likely than are other REITs to face interpretative issues for which there are no clear answers. We believe that for the taxable years ended December 31, 1995 through April 10, 2006, the date which Host acquired the Trust, the Trust qualified as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. If the Trust failed to qualify as a REIT for any prior tax year, we would be liable to pay a significant amount of taxes for those years. Subsequent to the Host Transaction, the Trust is no longer owned by us and we are not subject to this risk for actions following the transaction. Evolving Government Regulation Could Impose Taxes or Other Burdens on Our Business. We rely upon generally available interpretations of tax laws and other types of laws and regulations in the countries and locales in which we operate. We cannot be sure that these interpretations are accurate or that the responsible taxing or other 13 Table of Contents governmental authority is in agreement with our views. The imposition of additional taxes or causing us to change the way we conduct our business could cause us to have to pay taxes that we currently do not collect or pay or increase the costs of our services or increase our costs of operations. Our current business practice with our internet reservation channels is that the intermediary collects hotel occupancy tax from its customer based on the price that the intermediary paid us for the hotel room. We then remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. Several jurisdictions have stated that they may take the position that the tax is also applicable to the intermediaries’ gross profit on these hotel transactions. If jurisdictions take this position, they should seek the additional tax payments from the intermediary; however, it is possible that they may seek to collect the additional tax payment from us and we would not be able to collect these taxes from the customers. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that the hotel occupancy tax applies to the gross revenue on these transactions, we believe that any additional tax would be the responsibility of the intermediary. However, it is possible that we might have additional tax exposure. In such event, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board of Directors May Issue Preferred Stock and Establish the Preferences and Rights of Such Preferred Stock. Our charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes which the Corporation has authority to issue is 1,200,000,000, consisting of one billion shares of common stock and 200 million shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of shareholders, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued and to issue such shares. The issuance of preferred shares or other shares having special preferences or rights could delay or prevent a change in control even if a change in control would be in the interests of our shareholders. Since our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of shares without a shareholder vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders of any class or series preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of our shares. Our Board of Directors May Implement Anti-Takeover Devices and our Charter and Bylaws Contain Provisions which May Prevent Takeovers. Certain provisions of Maryland law permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses that are not currently in place, such as a classified board. In addition, our charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of the Corporation Shares, which provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of our shareholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, our Bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend our Bylaws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 