Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We Are Subject to the Business, Financial and Operating Risks Common to the Hotel, Vacation Ownership and Residential Industries, Any of Which Could Reduce Our Revenues and Limit Opportunities for Growth. Business, financial and operating risks common to the hotel, vacation ownership and residential industries include: • significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations in the U.S. and in all of the other countries in which we operate; • delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; • changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or timeshare resorts in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers (including certain concentration in new and emerging markets), and shortages of desirable locations for development; • decreases in the demand for transient rooms, vacation ownership interests, residential products and related lodging services, including a reduction in business travel as a result of alternatives to in-person meetings (including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks) or due to general economic conditions; • decreased corporate or governmental travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business such as industry conventions; • negative public perception of corporate travel-related activities; 11 Table of Contents • statements, actions, or interventions by governmental officials related to travel, meetings or other aspects of hotel business and operations; • the impact of internet intermediaries and other new industry entrants on pricing and the value of our brands and our increasing reliance on technology; • health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; • changes in operating costs including, but not limited to, energy, water, labor costs (including the impact of labor shortages and unionization), food costs, workers’ compensation and health-care related costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; • disputes with owners of properties may lead to the termination of our management or franchise agreements or result in litigation; • the availability and cost of capital to allow us and hotel owners and franchisees to fund construction and renovations; • the financial condition of third-party owners, developers, franchisees and joint venture partners; and • cyclical over-building in the hotel, residential and vacation ownership industries. Macroeconomic and Other Factors Beyond Our Control Can Adversely Affect and Reduce Demand For Our Products and Services. Macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control that could adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services include, but are not limited to: • changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, unemployment levels and the severity and duration of downturns in the United States, Europe and global economies; • war, political conditions and civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response thereto; • natural or man-made disasters, such as earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, drought, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; • conditions which negatively shape public perception of travel, including travel-related accidents and travelers’ fears of exposures to contagious diseases; • the financial condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries; • the physical risks of climate change and/or availability and quality of natural resources, such as a secure and economical supply of water or energy in some locations; and • foreign exchange fluctuations. If We Are Unable to Maintain Existing Management and Franchise Agreements or Obtain New Agreements on as Favorable Terms, Our Operating Results May Be Adversely Affected. We are impacted by our relationships with hotel owners and franchisees. Our hotel management contracts are typically long-term arrangements, but most allow the hotel owner to replace us in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of the hotel owner or franchisee, the failure to meet certain financial or performance criteria and in certain cases, upon a sale of the property. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, the risks common to hotel industries described above. Factors outside of our control could also have a significant negative impact on the financial condition and viability of our hotel property owners. Additionally, the nature of responsibilities under these management and franchise arrangements may give rise to disagreements with the property owners. Any disputes with property owners could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately decided in our favor. We cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third-party. An adverse result in any of these proceedings could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary 12 Table of Contents standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. In the event of any such termination, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims and incur significant legal fees and expenses. Any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management agreement. Consequently, our operating results would be adversely affected if we could not maintain existing management, franchise or representation agreements or obtain new agreements on as favorable terms as the existing agreements. We and Our Third Party Licensees May Not Be Able to Sell Residential Properties Using Our Brands for a Profit or at Anticipated Prices. We utilize our brands in connection with the residential portions of certain properties that we develop, and we license our brands to third parties to use in a similar manner for a fee. Residential properties using our brands could become less attractive due to changes in mortgage rates and the availability of mortgage financing generally, market absorption or oversupply in a particular market, changes in tax laws, or other factors affecting real estate markets. As a result, we and our third party licensees may not be able to sell these residences for a profit or at the prices that we or they have anticipated. The Global Economy Generally May Continue to Impact Our Financial Results and Growth. Consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Weak economic conditions in Europe and other parts of the world, potential disruptions in the U.S. economy, political instability in some areas throughout the world, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions will continue, could have a negative impact on the hotel and vacation ownership and residential industries by decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned properties, limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties, and reducing overall demand for timeshare intervals. Substantial increases in air and ground travel costs and decreases in airline capacity could reduce demand for our hotel rooms and interval and fractional timeshare products. Accordingly, our financial results have been impacted by such economic conditions and both our future financial results and growth could be further harmed if recovery from the economic conditions stalls or such conditions worsen. In certain cases, we have entered into third party hotel management contracts which contain performance guarantees specifying that certain operating metrics will be achieved. As a result of an economic downturn in the lodging industry, we may not meet the requisite performance levels, and we may be forced to loan or contribute monies to fund the shortfall of performance levels or terminate the management contract. For a more detailed description of our performance guarantees, see Note 25 of the consolidated financial statements. Our Revenues, Profits, or Market Share Could Be Harmed If We Are Unable to Compete Effectively. The hotel, vacation ownership and residential industries are highly competitive. Our properties compete for customers with other hotel and resort properties, ranging from national and international hotel brands to independent, local and regional hotel operators, and, with respect to our vacation ownership resorts and residential projects, with owners reselling their VOIs, including fractional ownership, or apartments. We compete based on a number of factors, including quality and consistency of rooms, restaurant and meeting facilities and services, attractiveness of locations, availability of a global distribution system, price the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points, and consumer facing technology platforms and services. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do, and if we are unable to successfully compete in these areas, our operating results could be adversely affected. Moreover, our present growth strategy for development of additional hotels entails entering into and maintaining various management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases with property owners. We compete with other hotel companies for this business primarily on the basis of fees, contract terms, brand recognition, and reputation. In connection with entering into these agreements, we may be required to make investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties. The terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our hotels are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. We cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. 13 Table of Contents A Degradation in the Quality or Reputation of our Brands Could Adversely Affect our Financial Results and Growth. For our owned, managed and franchised properties to remain attractive and competitive, the property owners and we have to spend money periodically to keep the properties well maintained, modernized and refurbished. This creates an ongoing need for cash. Third-party property owners may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our management or franchise agreements. To the extent that property owners and we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Failure to make the investments necessary to maintain or improve such properties, act in accordance with applicable brand standards or project a consistent brand image could adversely affect the quality and reputation of our brands. Moreover, third party owners or franchisees may be unwilling or unable to incur the cost of complying with brand standards for new and existing brands as such brands may evolve from time to time. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected. External Perception of Our Hotels Could Harm Our Brands and Reputation As Well As Reduce Our Revenues and Lower Our Profits. Our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. Our ability to attract development partners and franchisees and to attract and retain guests depends, in part, upon the external perceptions of Starwood and our nine brands, the quality of our hotels and services and our corporate and management integrity. There is a risk to our brands and our reputation if we fail to act responsibly or comply with regulatory requirements in a number of areas, such as safety and security, sustainability, responsible tourism, environmental management, human rights and support for local communities. The considerable increase in the use of social media over recent years has greatly expanded the potential scope and scale, and increased the rapidity of the dissemination of the negative publicity that could be generated by any such adverse incident or failure. An adverse incident involving our associates or our guests, or in respect of our third party vendors or owners and the industry, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, may harm our brands and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in Starwood, our brands or the industry, and negatively impact our results or operations. Any Failure to Protect our Intellectual Property Could Have a Negative Impact on the Value of Our Brands and Adversely Affect Our Business. We believe our trademarks are an important component of our business. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered and there is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. Further, monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation and similar proceedings have been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Actions of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Third parties may also make claims against us for infringing their intellectual property, including patent, copyright, industrial design, trademarks or similar rights that could result in causing us to change our property designs or other branding and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our Dependence on Hotel and Resort Development Exposes Us to Timing, Budgeting and Other Risks. We intend to participate in the development of hotel and resort properties and residential components of hotel properties, as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. In addition, the owners and developers of new-build properties that we have entered into management or franchise agreements with are subject to these same risks which may impact the amount and timing of fees we had expected to collect from those properties. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; 14 Table of Contents • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; • defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; • ability to raise capital; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. We cannot assure you that any development project, including sites held for development of vacation ownership resorts, will in fact be developed, and, if developed, the time period or the budget of such development may be greater than initially contemplated and the actual number of units or rooms constructed may be less than initially contemplated. International Operations Are Subject to Unique Political and Monetary Risks. We have significant international operations which as of December 31, 2013 included 158 owned, managed or franchised properties in Europe (including 16 properties with majority ownership); 85 managed or franchised properties in Africa and the Middle East; 79 owned, managed or franchised properties in Latin America (including nine properties with majority ownership); and 263 owned, managed or franchised properties in the Asia Pacific region (including four properties with majority ownership). International operations generally are subject to various political, geopolitical, and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. These risks include the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries, exposure to local economic conditions, potential adverse changes in the diplomatic relations between foreign countries and the United States, including the threat of international boycott or U.S. anti-boycott legislation, hostility from local populations, including the risk of war, acts of terrorism, political instability and civil unrest in the Middle East and elsewhere, restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings and withdrawal of foreign investments, restriction on the ability to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies and management or franchise fees to the United States, uncertainty as to the enforceability of contractual rights and intellectual property rights under local law, conflicts between local law and United States law and compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies. In addition, sales in international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. Additionally, our current growth strategy is heavily dependent upon growth in international markets. As of December 31, 2013, 83% of our pipeline represented growth outside North America. Further, 61% of our pipeline represents new properties in Asia Pacific and 44% represents new growth in China alone. If our international expansion plans are unsuccessful, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. Third Party Internet Reservation Channels May Negatively Impact Our Bookings. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through third party internet travel intermediaries such as Expedia.com®, Orbitz.com®, Booking.com®, and CTrip.com®, as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. As the percentage of internet bookings increases, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. Over time, consumers may develop loyalties to these third party internet reservations systems rather than to our lodging brands. Although we expect to derive most of our business from traditional channels and our websites, our business and profitability could be adversely affected if customer loyalties significantly shift from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from our websites, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of internet bookings for our hotels. In addition, ongoing class action litigation against several online travel intermediaries and lodging companies, including Starwood, challenges the legality under antitrust law of certain provisions in contracts with 15 Table of Contents third party intermediaries. While the company is defending the litigation and believes the contract provisions are lawful, the courts will ultimately determine this issue and an adverse outcome could force us to alter our business arrangements with these third parties and could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. A Failure to Keep Pace with Developments in Technology Could Impair Our Operations or Competitive Position. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems including technology utilized for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of SPG, our customer loyalty program, distribution, revenue management and guest amenities. These technologies can be expected to require refinements, including to comply with the legal requirements such as privacy regulations and requirements established by third parties such as the payment card industry, and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. Further, the development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant capital. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and timeframes. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Cyber Threats and the Risk of Data Breaches or Disruptions of our Information Technology Systems Could Harm Our Brand and Adversely Affect our Business. Our business involves the processing, use, storage and transmission of personal information regarding our employees, customers, hotel owners, and vendors for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The protection of personal as well as proprietary information is critical to us. We are subject to numerous laws, regulations, and contractual obligations designed to protect personal information, including Member State implementation of the European Union Directive on Data Protection, other foreign data privacy laws, various U.S. federal and state laws, and credit card industry security standards and other applicable information security standards. We have established policies and procedures to help protect the privacy and security of our information. However, every year the number of laws, regulations, and information security requirements continue to grow, as does the complexity of such laws and requirements. Further, privacy regulations, on occasion, may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. We are dependent on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store proprietary and personal information, and to communicate among our various locations around the world, which may include our reservation systems, vacation exchange systems, hotel/property management systems, customer and employee databases, call centers, administrative systems, and third party vendor systems. We store and process such internal and customer information both at onsite facilities and at third-party owned facilities, including for example, in a third-party hosted cloud environment. The complexity of this infrastructure contributes to the potential risk of security breaches. We rely on the security of our information systems, and those of our vendors and other authorized third parties, to protect our proprietary and personal information. Despite our efforts, information networks and systems may be vulnerable to threats such as system, network or internet failures; computer hacking or business disruption; cyber-terrorism; viruses, worms or other malicious software programs; employee error, negligence, fraud, or misuse of systems; or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access, modify or delete our proprietary and personal information. Although we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing network security and internal controls, there can be no assurance that a system failure, unauthorized access, or breach will not occur. Any compromise of our networks or systems, public disclosure, or loss of personal or proprietary information, non-compliance with contractual or legal obligations regarding personal information, or a violation of a privacy or security policy pertaining to personal information could result in a disruption to our operations; damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence from our customers or employees; legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect personal information, regulatory penalties, potentially resulting in significant monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and/or criminal or civil prosecution in one or more jurisdictions; and subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or additional costs and liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations or financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Significant Owners of Our Properties May Concentrate Risks. There is potential for a concentration of ownership of hotels operated under our brands by any single owner. Following the acquisition of the Le Méridien brand business and a large disposition transaction to one ownership group in 2006, single ownership groups own significant numbers of hotels operated by us. While the risks associated with such ownership are no different than exist generally (i.e., the financial position of the owner, the overall state of the relationship with the owner and their participation in optional programs and the impact on cost efficiencies if they choose not to participate), they are more concentrated. If an owner with a considerable portfolio of hotels were to leave our system, it may have a significant impact in certain of our markets and on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Real Estate Investments Subject Us to Numerous Risks. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we own and lease hotels and resorts. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate hotels. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments are difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of owned properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. We May Be Subject to Environmental Liabilities. Our properties and operations are subject to a number of Environmental Laws. Under such laws, we could be held liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances at, on, under, or in our currently or formerly owned or operated properties. Such laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owner’s ability to sell or rent such real property or to borrow using such real property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic materials or wastes may be liable for the costs of extraction, removal or remediation of such wastes at the treatment, storage or disposal facility, regardless of whether such facility is owned or operated by such person. We use certain substances and generate certain wastes that may be deemed hazardous or toxic under applicable Environmental Laws, and we from time to time have incurred, and in the future may incur, costs related to cleaning up contamination resulting from historic uses at certain of our current or former properties or our treatment, storage or disposal of wastes at facilities owned by others. Other Environmental Laws govern occupational exposure to ACMs and require abatement or removal of certain ACMs (limited quantities of which are present in various building materials such as spray-on insulation, floor coverings, ceiling coverings, tiles, decorative treatments and piping located at certain of our hotels) in the event of damage or demolition, or certain renovations or remodeling. Environmental Laws also regulate PCBs, which may be present in electrical equipment. A number of our hotels have USTs and equipment containing CFCs; the operation and subsequent removal or upgrading of certain USTs and the use of equipment containing CFCs also are regulated by Environmental Laws. In connection with our ownership, operation and management of our properties, we could be held liable for costs of remedial or other action with respect to PCBs, USTs or CFCs. U.S. Congress, some U.S. states and various countries are considering or have undertaken actions to regulate and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. New or revised laws, taxes and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our hotels and/or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. The cost impact of such legislation, regulation, tax or new interpretations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. 17 Table of Contents The potential for changes in the frequency, duration and severity of extreme weather events that may be a result of climate change could lead to significant property damage at our hotels and other assets, impact our ability to obtain insurance coverage in areas that are most vulnerable to such events, such as the coastal resort areas where we operate and have a negative effect on revenues. We Could Be Adversely Affected by Violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Similar Anti-Corruption Laws. Our business operations in countries outside the United States are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). The FCPA and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or any other person for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-corruption laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We train our employees concerning anti-corruption laws and issues, and also require our third-party business partners and agents and others who work with us or on our behalf that they must comply with our anti-corruption policies. We also have policies, procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or third-parties with whom we work. If we are found to be liable for violations of the FCPA or similar anti-corruption laws in international jurisdictions, either due to our own acts or out of inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, we could suffer criminal or civil penalties which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Failure to Comply with Sanction Laws May Adversely Impact our Business. From time to time, the United States imposes sanctions that restrict U.S. companies from engaging in business activities with certain persons, foreign countries, or foreign governments that it determines are adverse to U.S. foreign policy interests. For example, the United States has issued an executive order that prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in certain business activities with the government of Syria, a country that the United States has identified as a state sponsor of terrorism. During fiscal 2013, a foreign subsidiary of Starwood generated less than $15,000 of revenue from management and other fees from long standing relationships with hotels located in Syria. This amount constitutes significantly less than 1% of our worldwide annual revenues. We believe our activities in Syria are in full compliance with U.S. and local law. At any time, the United States may impose additional sanctions against Syria or any other country in which we may have ongoing activities. If so, our existing activities may be adversely affected, depending on the nature of the sanctions that might be imposed. Further, our activities in countries that are subject to U.S. sanction laws or countries that have experienced government corruption may reduce demand for our stock among certain investors. Any restrictions on Starwood’s ability to conduct its business operations across the world could negatively impact our financial results. Our Insurance Policies May Not Cover All Potential Losses. We maintain insurance coverage for liability, property, business interruption, and other risks with respect to our owned and leased properties, and we may make select insurance programs available to owners of properties we manage or franchise. These policies offer coverage terms and conditions that we believe are usual and customary for our industry. Generally, our “all-risk” property policies provide that coverage is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, there is a limit as well as various sub-limits on the amount of insurance proceeds we will receive in excess of applicable deductibles. In addition, there may be aggregate limits or sublimits under the policies. Our property policies also provide coverage for earthquake, named windstorm and flood events. If an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our owned hotels and/or managed or franchised hotels owned by third parties that participate in our insurance program, the claims from each affected hotel may be considered together per policy provisions to determine whether the per occurrence limit, annual aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. If the limits or sub-limits are exceeded each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy. In addition, under those circumstances, claims by third party owners will reduce the coverage available for our owned and leased properties. 18 Table of Contents In addition, there are also other risks including but not limited to war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism, political risks, some environmental hazards and/or Acts of God that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or cost prohibitive to justify insuring against. Furthermore, if the U.S. Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (“TRIPRA”) is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2014, the cost for terrorism insurance coverage may increase and/or the terms, conditions, exclusions, retentions, limits and sublimits of such insurance may be materially amended, and may effectively decrease the scope and availability of such insurance to the point where it is effectively unavailable. We may also encounter challenges with a Starwood and/or Third Party Owners’ insurance provider regarding whether it can or will pay a claim(s) that we believe to be covered under the policy. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel or resort, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel or resort. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Our Acquisitions/Dispositions and Investments in New Brands May Ultimately Not Prove Successful and We May Not Realize Anticipated Benefits. We consider corporate as well as property acquisitions and investments that complement our business. In many cases, we compete for these opportunities with third parties who may have substantially greater financial resources or different or lower acceptable financial metrics than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify acquisition or investment candidates or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If transactions are consummated, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions or investments, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on restructuring and enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments, and from time to time, may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance; however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or that any anticipated benefits will actually be received. We may develop and launch additional brands in the future. There can be no assurance regarding the level of acceptance of these brands in the development and consumer marketplaces, that the cost incurred in developing the brands will be recovered or that the anticipated benefits from these new brands will be realized. Investing Through Partnerships or Joint Ventures Decreases Our Ability to Manage Risk. In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. Our Vacation Ownership Business is Subject to Extensive Regulation and Risk of Default. We market and sell VOIs, which typically entitle the buyer to ownership of a fully-furnished resort unit for a one-week period on either an annual or an alternate-year basis. We also acquire, develop and operate vacation ownership resorts, and provide financing to purchasers of VOIs. These activities are all subject to extensive regulation by the federal government, states or other jurisdictions in which vacation ownership resorts are located and in which VOIs are marketed and sold including regulation of our telemarketing activities under state and federal “Do Not Call” laws. In addition, the laws of most jurisdictions in which we sell VOIs grant the purchaser the right to rescind the 19 Table of Contents purchase contract at any time within a statutory rescission period. Laws in some of the jurisdictions would impose liability on us as the developer of the resort for certain construction related defects. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations to which vacation ownership marketing, sales and operations are currently subject, changes in these requirements, or a determination by a regulatory authority that we were not in compliance, could adversely affect us. In particular, increased regulations of telemarketing activities could adversely impact the marketing of our VOIs. We bear the risk of defaults under purchaser mortgages on VOIs. If a VOI purchaser defaults on the mortgage during the early part of the loan amortization period, we will not have recovered the marketing, selling (other than commissions in certain events), and general and administrative costs associated with such VOI, and such costs will be incurred again in connection with the resale of the repossessed VOI. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the sales price will be fully or partially recovered from a defaulting purchaser or, in the event of such defaults, that our allowance for losses will be adequate. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Senior Management and Our Ability to Achieve Our Growth Strategy. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. Over the last few years we have been pursuing a strategy of reducing our investment in owned real estate and increasing our focus on the management and franchise business. As a result, we are planning on substantially increasing the number of hotels we open every year and increasing the overall number of hotels in our system. This increase will require us to recruit and train a substantial number of new associates to work at these hotels as well as increasing our capabilities to enable hotels to open on time and successfully. There can be no assurance that our strategy will be successful. Changes in U.S. Federal, State and Local or Foreign Tax Law, Interpretations of Existing Tax Law, or Adverse Determinations by Tax Authorities, Could Increase our Tax Burden or Otherwise Adversely Affect our Financial Condition or Results of Operations. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the U.S. and various other countries and jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. From time to time, the U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We record tax expense based in part on our estimates of expected future tax rates, reserves for uncertain tax positions in multiple tax jurisdictions, and valuation allowances related to certain net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. We are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes relating to federal, state, local and foreign tax matters. An unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely impacting our financial condition or results of operations. Changes to Accounting Rules or Regulations May Adversely Affect our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting rules or regulations may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations or the questioning of current accounting practices may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes to Estimates or Projections Used to Assess the Fair Value of Our Assets, or Operating Results That are Lower Than our Current Estimates at Certain Locations, May Cause Us to Incur Impairment Charges That Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with an indefinite life, other intangible assets with finite useful lives, and substantial amounts of long-lived 20 Table of Contents assets, principally property and equipment, including hotel properties. We evaluate our goodwill and trademarks for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if events or circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value is below the carrying value. We evaluate intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. After performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. If these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Debt Financing Our Debt Service Obligations May Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow. As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to: (i) the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, (ii) restrictive covenants, including covenants relating to certain financial ratios, and (iii) interest rate risk. Although we anticipate that we will be able to repay or refinance our existing indebtedness and any other indebtedness when it matures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that the terms of such refinancing will be favorable. Our leverage may have important consequences including the following: (i) our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if necessary, may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us and (ii) a substantial decrease in operating cash flow, EBITDA (as defined in our credit agreements) or a substantial increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and restrictive covenants and force us to sell assets and/or modify our operations. We Have Little Control Over the Availability of Funds Needed to Fund New Investments and Maintain Existing Hotels. In order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both we and current and potential hotel owners must have access to capital. The availability of funds for new investments and maintenance of existing hotels depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors over which we have little control. Current and prospective hotel owners may find hotel financing expensive and difficult to obtain. Delays, increased costs and other impediments to restructuring such projects may affect our ability to realize fees, recover loans and guarantee advances, or realize equity investments from such projects. Our ability to recover loans and guarantee advances from hotel operations or from owners through the proceeds of hotel sales, refinancing of debt or otherwise may also affect our ability to raise new capital. In addition, downgrades of our public debt ratings by rating agencies could increase our cost of capital. A breach of a covenant could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in an acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. For a more detailed description of the covenants imposed by our debt obligations, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Used for Financing Activities in this Annual Report. Volatility in the Credit Markets May Adversely Impact Our Ability to Sell the Loans That Our Vacation Ownership Business Generates. Our vacation ownership business provides financing to purchasers of our vacation ownership units, and we attempt to sell interests in those loans in the securities markets. Volatility in the credit markets may impact the timing and volume of the timeshare loans that we are able to sell. Although we expect to realize the economic value of our vacation ownership note portfolio even if future note sales are temporarily or indefinitely delayed, such delays may result in either increased borrowings to provide capital to replace anticipated proceeds from such sales or reduced spending in order to maintain our leverage and return targets. Exchange Rate Fluctuations and Foreign Exchange Hedging Arrangements Could Result in Significant Foreign Currency Gains and Losses and Impact Our Business Results. Conducting business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on financial results. We earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the U.S. As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of translated 21 Table of Contents U.S. dollars required for expenses outside the U.S. or significantly decrease the U.S. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. We also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the U.S. are reported in local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative impact on financial results. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the U.S. increases. To attempt to mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce certain of our exposures to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. However, these hedging agreements may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares Our Board of Directors May Issue Preferred Stock and Establish the Preferences and Rights of Such Preferred Stock. Our charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes which the Corporation has authority to issue is 1,200,000,000, consisting of one billion shares of common stock and 200 million shares of preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares to be issued and to issue such shares. The issuance of preferred shares having special preferences or rights could delay or prevent a change in control even if a change in control would be in the interests of our stockholders. Since our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of preferred shares without a stockholder vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of our shares. Our Board of Directors May Implement Anti-Takeover Devices and Our Bylaws Contain Provisions which May Prevent Takeovers. Certain provisions of Maryland law permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses that are not currently in place, such as a classified board. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, our Bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend our Bylaws. We Cannot Provide Assurance That We Will Continue to Pay Dividends. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends. Our Board of Directors may suspend the payment of dividends if the Board deems such action to be in the best interests of the Company or stockholders. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for you to realize a gain on your investment in the Company. This appreciation may not occur and our stock may, in fact, depreciate in value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 