Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Hotel, Resort, Vacation Ownership and Residential Operations We Are Subject to All the Operating Risks Common to the Hotel and Vacation Ownership and Residential Industries. Operating risks common to the hotel and vacation ownership industries include: • changes in general economic conditions, including the prospects for improved performance in other parts of the world; • impact of war and terrorist activity (including threatened terrorist activity) and heightened travel security measures instituted in response thereto; • domestic and international political and geopolitical conditions; • travelers’ fears of exposures to contagious diseases; • decreases in the demand for transient rooms and related lodging services, including a reduction in business travel as a result of general economic conditions; • the impact of internet intermediaries on pricing and our increasing reliance on technology; • cyclical over-building in the hotel and vacation ownership industries; • restrictive changes in zoning and similar land use laws and regulations or in health, safety and environmental laws, rules and regulations and other governmental and regulatory action; • changes in travel patterns; • changes in operating costs including, but not limited to, energy, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), food costs, workers’ compensation and health-care related costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences; • disputes with owners of properties, franchisees and homeowner associations which may result in litigation; • the availability of capital to allow us and potential hotel owners and franchisees to fund construction, renovations and investments; • foreign exchange fluctuations; • the financial condition of third-party property owners, project developers and franchisees, which may impact our ability to recover indemnity payments that may be owed to us and their ability to fund amounts required under development, management and franchise agreements and in most cases our recourse is limited to the equity value said party has in the property; and • the financial condition of the airline industry and the impact on air travel. We are also impacted by our relationships with owners and franchisees. Our hotel management contracts are typically long-term arrangements, but most allow the hotel owner to replace us if certain financial or performance criteria are not met and in certain cases, upon a sale of the property. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, the risks described in this section. Additionally, our operating results would be adversely affected if we could not maintain existing management, franchise or representation agreements or obtain new agreements on as favorable terms as the existing agreements. General Economic Conditions May Negatively Impact Our Results. Moderate or severe economic downturns or adverse conditions may negatively affect our operations. These conditions may be widespread or isolated to one or more geographic regions. A tightening of the labor markets in one or more geographic regions may result in fewer and/or less qualified applicants for job openings in our facilities. Higher wages, related labor costs and the increasing cost trends in the insurance markets may negatively impact our results as wages, related labor costs and insurance premiums increase. 10 Table of Contents We Must Compete for Customers. The hotel and vacation ownership industries are highly competitive. Our properties compete for customers with other hotel and resort properties, and, with respect to our vacation ownership resorts and residential projects, with owners reselling their VOIs, including fractional ownership, or apartments. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do, and they may improve their facilities, reduce their prices or expand or improve their marketing programs in ways that adversely affect our operating results. We Must Compete for Management and Franchise Agreements. We compete with other hotel companies for management and franchise agreements. As a result, the terms of such agreements may not be as favorable as our current agreements. In connection with entering into management or franchise agreements, we may be required to make investments in or guarantee the obligations of third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties. Any Failure to Protect our Trademarks Could Have a Negative Impact on the Value of our Brand Names and Adversely Affect our Business. We believe our trademarks are an important component of our business. We rely on trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our trademarks to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. Litigation has been and may continue to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, may result in counterclaims or other claims against us and could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. From time to time, we apply to have certain trademarks registered. There is no guarantee that such trademark registrations will be granted. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Significant Owners of Our Properties May Concentrate Risks. Generally there has not been a concentration of ownership of hotels operated under our brands by any single owner. Following the acquisition of the Le Méridien brand business and the consummation of the transaction with Host Marriott, single ownership groups will own significant numbers of hotels operated by us. While the risks associated with such ownership are no different than exist generally (i.e., the financial position of the owner, the overall state of the relationship with the owner and their participation in optional programs and the impact on cost efficiencies if they choose not to participate), they are more concentrated. The Hotel Industry Is Seasonal in Nature. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature; however, the periods during which we experience higher revenue vary from property to property and depend principally upon location. Our revenue historically has been lower in the first quarter than in the second, third or fourth quarters. Third Party Internet Reservation Channels May Negatively Impact our Bookings. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through third party internet travel intermediaries such as Travelocity.com®, Expedia.com® and Priceline.com®. As the percentage of internet bookings increases, these intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these internet travel intermediaries are attempting to commoditize hotel rooms by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their reservations system rather than to our lodging brands. Although we expect to derive most of our business from traditional channels and our websites, if the amount of sales made through internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be significantly harmed. We Place Significant Reliance on Technology. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems including technology utilized for property management, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our customer loyalty program, distribution and guest amenities. These 11 Table of Contents technologies can be expected to require refinements and there is the risk that advanced new technologies will be introduced. There can be no assurance that as various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required we will be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as our competition or within budgeted costs and timeframes for such technology. Further, there can be no assurance that we will achieve the benefits that may have been anticipated from any new technology or system. Our Businesses Are Capital Intensive. For our owned, managed and franchised properties to remain attractive and competitive, the property owners and we have to spend money periodically to keep the properties well maintained, modernized and refurbished. This creates an ongoing need for cash and, to the extent the property owners and we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. In addition, to continue growing our vacation ownership business and residential projects, we need to spend money to develop new units. Accordingly, our financial results may be sensitive to the cost and availability of funds and the carrying cost of VOI and residential inventory. Real Estate Investments Are Subject to Numerous Risks. We are subject to the risks that generally relate to investments in real property because we own and lease hotels and resorts. The investment returns available from equity investments in real estate depend in large part on the amount of income earned and capital appreciation generated by the related properties, and the expenses incurred. In addition, a variety of other factors affect income from properties and real estate values, including governmental regulations, real estate, insurance, zoning, tax and eminent domain laws, interest rate levels and the availability of financing. For example, new or existing real estate zoning or tax laws can make it more expensive and/or time-consuming to develop real property or expand, modify or renovate hotels. When interest rates increase, the cost of acquiring, developing, expanding or renovating real property increases and real property values may decrease as the number of potential buyers decreases. Similarly, as financing becomes less available, it becomes more difficult both to acquire and to sell real property. Finally, under eminent domain laws, governments can take real property. Sometimes this taking is for less compensation than the owner believes the property is worth. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, equity real estate investments are difficult to sell quickly and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio of owned properties quickly in response to economic or other conditions. If our properties do not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our income will be adversely affected. Hotel and Resort Development Is Subject to Timing, Budgeting and Other Risks. We intend to develop hotel and resort properties, including VOIs and residential components of hotel properties, as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration the general economic climate. New project development has a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • so-called acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; • defects in design or construction that may result in additional costs to remedy or require all or a portion of a property to be closed during the period required to rectify the situation; • ability to raise capital; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project or timing of completion. We cannot assure you that any development project will be completed on time or within budget. Environmental Regulations. Environmental laws, ordinances and regulations of various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate our properties and could make us liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up hazardous or toxic substances on, under, or in property we currently own or operate or that we previously owned or operated. These laws could impose liability without regard to whether we knew of, or were 12 Table of Contents responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to properly clean up such substances when present, could jeopardize our ability to develop, use, sell or rent the real property or to borrow using the real property as collateral. If we arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic wastes, we could be liable for the costs of removing or cleaning up wastes at the disposal or treatment facility, even if we never owned or operated that facility. Other laws, ordinances and regulations could require us to manage, abate or remove lead or asbestos containing materials. Similarly, the operation and closure of storage tanks are often regulated by federal, state, local and foreign laws. Certain laws, ordinances and regulations, particularly those governing the management or preservation of wetlands, coastal zones and threatened or endangered species, could limit our ability to develop, use, sell or rent our real property. International Operations Are Subject to Special Political and Monetary Risks. We have significant international operations which as of December 31, 2005 included 259 owned, managed or franchised properties in Europe, Africa and the Middle East (including 27 properties with majority ownership); 55 owned, managed or franchised properties in Latin America (including 13 properties with majority ownership); and 119 owned, managed or franchised properties in the Asia Pacific region (including 4 properties with majority ownership). International operations generally are subject to various political, geopolitical, and other risks that are not present in U.S. operations. These risks include the risk of war, terrorism, civil unrest, expropriation and nationalization as well as the impact in cases in which there are inconsistencies between U.S. law and the laws of an international jurisdiction. In addition, some international jurisdictions restrict the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings. Various international jurisdictions also have laws limiting the ability of non-U.S. entities to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions have been met. In addition, sales in international jurisdictions typically are made in local currencies, which subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. Other than Italy, where our risks are heightened due to the 12 properties we owned as of December 31, 2005, our international properties are geographically diversified and are not concentrated in any particular region. Risks Relating to Operations in Syria During fiscal 2005, Starwood subsidiaries generated approximately $1 million of revenue from management and other fees from hotels located in Syria, a country that the United States has identified as a state sponsor of terrorism. This amount constitutes significantly less than 1% of our worldwide annual revenues. The United States does not prohibit U.S. investments in, or the exportation of services to, Syria, and our activities in that country are in full compliance with U.S. and local law. However, the United States has imposed limited sanctions as a result of Syria’s support for terrorist groups and its interference with Lebanon’s sovereignty, including a prohibition on the exportation of U.S.-origin goods to Syria and the operation of government-owned Syrian air carriers in the United States except in limited circumstances. However, the United States may impose further sanctions against Syria at any time for foreign policy reasons. If so, our activities in Syria may be adversely affected, depending on the nature of any further sanctions that might be imposed. In addition, our activities in Syria may reduce demand for our stock among certain investors. Debt Financing As a result of our debt obligations, we are subject to: (i) the risk that cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest and (ii) interest rate risk. Although we anticipate that we will be able to repay or refinance our existing indebtedness and any other indebtedness when it matures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that the terms of such refinancings will be favorable. Our leverage may have important consequences including the following: (i) our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes, if necessary, may be impaired or such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us; (ii) a substantial decrease in operating cash flow or a substantial increase in our expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements and force us to sell assets and/or modify our operations; and (iii) our higher level of debt 13 Table of Contents and resulting interest expense may place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to certain competitors with lower amounts of indebtedness and/or higher credit ratings. Risks Relating to So-Called Acts of God, Terrorist Activity and War Our financial and operating performance may be adversely affected by so-called acts of God, such as natural disasters, in locations where we own and/or operate significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers. Similarly, wars (including the potential for war), terrorist activity (including threats of terrorist activity), political unrest and other forms of civil strife and geopolitical uncertainty have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, our results to differ materially from anticipated results. Some Potential Losses are Not Covered by Insurance We carry insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to our owned and leased properties and we make available insurance programs for owners of properties we manage and franchise. These policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are usual and customary for our industry. Generally, our “all-risk” property policies provide that coverage is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, there is a limit as well as various sub-limits on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. In addition, there may be overall limits under the policies. Sub-limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs or landscaping replacement, and the dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. Our property policies also provide that for the coverage of critical earthquake (California and Mexico) and flood, all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the annual aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and any such claims will also be combined with the claims of owners of managed hotels that participate in our insurance program for the same purpose. Therefore, if insurable events occur that affect more than one of our owned hotels and/or managed hotels owned by third parties that participate in our insurance program, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the per occurrence limit, annual aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached and if the limits or sub-limits are exceeded each affected hotel will only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy. In addition, under those circumstances, claims by third party owners will reduce the coverage available for our owned and leased properties. In addition, there are also other risks including but not limited to war, certain forms of terrorism such as nuclear, biological or chemical terrorism, political risks, some environmental hazards and/or acts of God that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or may be too expensive to justify insuring against. We may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel or resort, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel or resort. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Acquisitions/Dispositions We intend to make acquisitions that complement our business. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to identify acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If acquisitions are made, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Similarly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, or that the ability to obtain such financing will not be restricted by the terms of our debt agreements. 14 Table of Contents We periodically review our business to identify properties or other assets that we believe either are non-core, no longer complement our business, are in markets which may not benefit us as much as other markets during an economic recovery or could be sold at significant premiums. We are focused on restructuring and enhancing real estate returns and monetizing investments and from time to time, may attempt to sell these identified properties and assets. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to complete dispositions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. On November 14, 2005, we entered into an agreement under which Host Marriott Corporation will acquire 38 properties from us in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $4.1 billion (based on the closing price of Host Marriott common stock immediately prior to the November 14, 2005 announcement date). As part of the agreement, we will generally continue to manage the properties under their current brands for up to 40 years. If the Host Marriott transaction or other dispositions are made, there can be no assurance that any anticipated benefits will actually be realized. Investing Through Partnerships or Joint Ventures Decreases Our Ability to Manage Risk In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts directly, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Although we generally seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. Our Vacation Ownership Business is Subject to Extensive Regulation and Risk of Default We market and sell VOIs, which typically entitle the buyer to ownership of a fully-furnished resort unit for a one-week period (or in the case of fractional ownership interests, generally for three or more weeks) on either an annual or an alternate-year basis. We also acquire, develop and operate vacation ownership resorts, and provide financing to purchasers of VOIs as well as market and sell residential units. These activities are all subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states in which vacation ownership resorts are located and in which VOIs are marketed and sold including regulation of our telemarketing activities under state and federal “Do Not Call” laws. In addition, the laws of most states in which we sell VOIs grant the purchaser the right to rescind the purchase contract at any time within a statutory rescission period. Although we believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations to which vacation ownership marketing, sales and operations are currently subject, changes in these requirements or a determination by a regulatory authority that we were not in compliance, could adversely affect us. In particular, increased regulations of telemarketing activities could adversely impact the marketing of our VOIs. We bear the risk of defaults under purchaser mortgages on VOIs. If a VOI purchaser defaults on the mortgage during the early part of the loan amortization period, we will not have recovered the marketing, selling (other than commissions in certain events), and general and administrative costs associated with such VOI, and such costs will be incurred again in connection with the resale of the repossessed VOI. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the sales price will be fully or partially recovered from a defaulting purchaser or, in the event of such defaults, that our allowance for losses will be adequate. Recent Privacy Initiatives We collect information relating to our guests for various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy 15 Table of Contents regulations may increase our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us (or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) may result in fines or restrictions on our use or transfer of data. Ability to Manage Growth Our future success and our ability to manage future growth depend in large part upon the efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain key officers and other highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. Since January 2004, we have experienced significant changes in our senior management, including executive officers (See Item 10. “Directors, Trustees and Executive Officers of the Registrant” of this Joint Annual Report). There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our senior management will be able to successfully execute and implement our growth and operating strategies. In addition, we recently announced a strategy of reducing our investment in owned real estate and increasing our focus on the management and franchise business, and there can be no assurance that our new strategy will be successful. Tax Risks Failure of the Trust to Qualify as a REIT Would Increase Our Tax Liability. Qualifying as a real estate investment trust (a “REIT”) requires compliance with highly technical and complex tax provisions that courts and administrative agencies have interpreted only to a limited degree. Due to the complexities of our ownership, structure and operations, the Trust is more likely than are other REITs to face interpretative issues for which there are no clear answers. Also, facts and circumstances that we do not control may affect the Trust’s ability to qualify as a REIT. The Trust believes that since the taxable year ended December 31, 1995, it has qualified as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Trust intends to continue to operate so it qualifies as a REIT. However, the Trust cannot assure you that it will continue to qualify as a REIT. If the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT for any prior tax year, the Trust would be liable to pay a significant amount of taxes for those years. Similarly, if the Trust fails to qualify as a REIT in the future, our liability for taxes would increase. In connection with the transaction with Host Marriott, the Trust will no longer be owned by us and we will no longer be subject to this risk for actions following the closing. Additional Legislation Could Eliminate or Reduce Certain Benefits of Our Structure. On January 6, 1999, we consummated a reorganization (the “Reorganization”) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Restructuring dated as of September 16, 1998, as amended, among the Corporation, ST Acquisition Trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Corporation, and the Trust. Pursuant to the Reorganization, the Trust became a subsidiary of the Corporation, which, directly, as well as indirectly through a wholly-owned subsidiary, holds all the outstanding Class A shares of beneficial interest, par value $0.01 per share, of the Trust. The Reorganization was proposed in response to the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 (“H.R. 2676”), which made it difficult for us to acquire and operate additional hotels while still maintaining our former status as a “grandfathered paired share real estate investment trust.” While we believe that the Reorganization was the best alternative in light of H.R. 2676 and that our current structure does not raise the same concerns that led Congress to enact such legislation, no assurance can be given that additional legislation, regulations or administrative interpretations will not be adopted that would eliminate or reduce certain benefits of the Reorganization and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. As part of the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, the tax rates on corporate dividends to shareholders were decreased to 15 and 5 percent, depending on the shareholders’ individual tax brackets. However, dividends paid by a REIT are generally not eligible for the reduced dividend tax rate. REIT dividends largely represent rents and other income that are passed through to shareholders as dividends deductible to the REIT, rather than corporate earnings subject to the corporate income tax. 16 Table of Contents We undertake global tax planning in the normal course of business. These activities may be subject to review by tax authorities. As a result of the review process, uncertainties exist and it is possible that some matters could be resolved adversely to us. In connection with the transaction with Host Marriott, the Trust will no longer be owned by us and we will no longer be subject to this risk on an ongoing basis. Evolving government regulation could impose taxes or other burdens on our business. We rely upon generally available interpretations of tax laws and other types of laws and regulations in the countries and locales in which we operate. We cannot be sure that these interpretations are accurate or that the responsible taxing or other governmental authority is in agreement with our views. The imposition of additional taxes or causing us to change the way we conduct our business could cause us to have to pay taxes that we currently do not collect or pay or increase the costs of our services or increase our costs of operations. Our current business practice with our internet reservation channels is that the intermediary collects hotel occupancy tax from its customer based on the price that the intermediary paid us for the hotel room. We then remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. Several jurisdictions have stated that they may take the position that the tax is also applicable to the intermediaries’ gross profit on these hotel transactions. If jurisdictions take this position, they should seek the additional tax payments from the intermediary; however, it is possible that they may seek to collect the additional tax payment from us and we would not be able to collect these taxes from the customers. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that the hotel occupancy tax applies to the gross profit on these transactions, we believe that any additional tax would be the responsibility of the intermediary. However, it is possible that we might have additional tax exposure. In such event, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares No Person or Group May Own More Than 8% of Our Shares. Our governing documents provide (subject to certain exceptions) that no one person or group may own or be deemed to own more than 8% of our outstanding stock or Shares of beneficial interest, whether measured by vote, value or number of Shares. There is an exception for shareholders who owned more than 8% as of February 1, 1995, who may not own or be deemed to own more than the lesser of 9.9% or the percentage of Shares they held on that date, provided, that if the percentage of Shares beneficially owned by such a holder decreases after February 1, 1995, such a holder may not own or be deemed to own more than the greater of 8% or the percentage owned after giving effect to the decrease. We may waive this limitation if we are satisfied that such ownership will not jeopardize the Trust’s status as a REIT. In addition, if Shares which would cause the Trust to be beneficially owned by fewer than 100 persons are issued or transferred to any person, such issuance or transfer shall be null and void. This ownership limit may have the effect of precluding a change in control of us by a third party without the consent of our Board of Directors, even if such change in control would otherwise give the holders of Shares or other of our equity securities the opportunity to realize a premium over then-prevailing market prices, and even if such change in control would not reasonably jeopardize the status of the Trust as a REIT. In connection with the transaction with Host Marriott, the Trust will no longer be owned by us and we are considering submitting an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to eliminate this restriction at the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Our Board of Directors May Issue Preferred Stock and Establish the Preferences and Rights of Such Preferred Stock. Our charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes which the Corporation has authority to issue is 1,350,000,000, initially consisting of one billion shares of common stock, 50 million shares of excess common stock, 200 million shares of preferred stock and 100 million shares of excess preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of shareholders, to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued and to issue such shares. The issuance of preferred shares or other shares having special preferences or rights could delay or prevent a change in control even if a change in control would be in the interests of our shareholders. Since our Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of shares without a shareholder vote, our Board of Directors may give the holders of any class or series preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of our shares. 17 Table of Contents Our Board of Directors May Implement Anti-Takeover Devices and our Charter and By-Laws Contain Provisions which May Prevent Takeovers. Certain provisions of Maryland law permit our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses that are not currently in place, such as a classified board. In addition, our charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of the Corporation Shares, which provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of our shareholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, our Bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend our Bylaws. Our Shareholder Rights Plan Would Cause Substantial Dilution to Any Shareholder That Attempts to Acquire Us on Terms Not Approved by Our Board of Directors. We adopted a shareholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our shareholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred stock, subject to the ownership limit described above. The preferred stock purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (i) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding Corporation Shares or (ii) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our outstanding Corporation Shares. The preferred stock purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors. Changes in Stock Option Accounting Rules May Adversely Impact Our Reported Operating Results Prepared in Accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, Our Stock Price and Our Competitiveness in the Employee Marketplace. We have a history of using broad based employee stock option programs to hire, incentivize and retain our workforce. Through December 31, 2005, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” allowed companies the choice of either using a fair value method of accounting for options, which would have resulted in expense recognition for all options granted, or using an intrinsic value method, as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion (“APB”) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” with a pro forma disclosure of the impact on net income of using the fair value recognition method. Through December 31, 2005, we elected to apply APB No. 25 and accordingly, we did not recognize any expense with respect to employee stock options as long as such options were granted at exercise prices equal to the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) concluded that SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” will be effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The FASB later deferred the effective date to annual periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Under SFAS No. 123R, companies must measure compensation cost for all share-based payments, including employee stock options, using a fair value based method and these payments must be recognized as expenses in our statements of operations. The implementation of SFAS No. 123R beginning in the first quarter of 2006 may have an adverse impact on our consolidated statement of operations because we are required to expense the fair value of our stock options rather than disclosing the impact on results of operations within our footnotes in accordance with the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123 (see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). This will result in lower reported earnings per share, which could negatively impact our future stock price. In addition, this could negatively impact our ability to utilize employee stock plans to recruit and retain employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. 