1A. Risk factors” for a discussion of certain risks of our business and an investment in our common stock. Our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil or natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil or natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil or natural gas that we can produce economically. A decline in oil and/or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the estimated value and estimated quantities of our oil and natural gas reserves, our ability to fund our operations and our financial condition, cash flow, results of operations and access to capital. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Glossary of selected oil and natural gas terms The following are abbreviations and definitions of terms commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry and this annual report. Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. Bcf. One billion cubic feet of natural gas. 26 Bcfe. One billion cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Btu. British thermal unit, which is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one pound mass of water from 58.5 to 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Commercial Well; Commercially Productive Well. An oil and natural gas well which produces oil and natural gas in sufficient quantities such that proceeds from the sale of such production exceed production expenses and taxes. Completion. The installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or natural gas, or, in the case of a dry hole, the reporting of abandonment to the appropriate agency. Developed Acreage. The number of acres which are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production. Development Well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or natural gas reservoir, or which extends a proved reservoir, to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. Dry Hole; Dry Well. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or naural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or natural gas well. Exploratory Well. A well drilled to find and produce oil or natural gas in an unproved area or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or natural gas in another reservoir. Farmout. An assignment of an interest in a drilling location and related acreage conditional upon the drilling of a well on that location. Formation. A succession of sedimentary beds that were deposited under the same general geologic conditions. Full Cost Pool. The full cost pool consists of all costs associated with property acquisition, exploration, and development activities for a company using the full cost method of accounting. Additionally, any internal costs that can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration and development activities are included. Any costs related to production, general corporate overhead or similar activities are not included. Gross Acres or Gross Wells. The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. Horizontal Wells. Wells which are drilled at angles greater than 70 degrees from vertical. Infill drilling. Drilling of a well between known producing wells to better exploit the reservoir. Mbbl. One thousand stock tank barrels. Mcf. One thousand cubic feet of natural gas. Mcfe. One thousand cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Mmbbl. One million stock tank barrels. Mmbtu. One million British thermal units. Mmcf. One million cubic feet of natural gas. Mmcfe. One million cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. 27 Mmcfe/d. One million cubic feet equivalent per day calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Mmmbtu. One billion British thermal units. NYMEX. New York Mercantile Exchange. NGLs. The combination of ethane, propane, butane and natural gasolines that when removed from natural gas become liquid under various levels of higher pressure and lower temperature. Overriding royalty interest. An interest in an oil and/or natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production free of costs of production. Present value of estimated future net revenues or PV-10. The present value of estimated future net revenues is an estimate of future net revenues from a property at the date indicated, without giving effect to derivative financial instrument activities, after deducting production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs, abandonment costs and operating expenses, but before deducting federal income taxes. The future net revenues have been discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their “present value.” The present value is shown to indicate the effect of time on the value of the net revenue stream and should not be construed as being the fair market value of the properties. Estimates have been made using constant oil, natural gas and NGL prices and operating costs at the date indicated, at its acquisition date, or as otherwise indicated. We believe that the present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes, while not a financial measure in accordance with GAAP, is an important financial measure used by investors and independent oil and natural gas producers for evaluating the relative significance of oil and natural gas properties and acquisitions because the tax characteristics of comparable companies can differ materially. Proved Developed Reserves. Reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and natural gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing the natural forces and mechanisms of primary recovery should be included as “proved developed reserves” only after testing by a pilot project or after the operation of an installed program has confirmed through production response that increased recovery will be achieved. Proved Reserves. The estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas-oil and/or oil-water contacts, if any, and (B) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (A) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as indicated additional reserves; (B) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to 28 geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors; (C) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. Proved Undeveloped Reserves. Reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. Under no circumstances should estimates for proved undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests in the area and in the same reservoir. Recompletion. An operation within an existing well bore to make the well produce oil and/or gas from a different, separately producible zone other than the zone from which the well had been producing. Reserve Life. The estimated productive life, in years, of a proved reservoir based upon the economic limit of such reservoir producing hydrocarbons in paying quantities assuming certain price and cost parameters. For purposes of this annual report, reserve life is calculated by dividing the Proved Reserves (on a Mmcfe basis) at the end of the period by production volumes for the previous 12 months. Royalty interest. An interest in an oil and/or natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production free of costs of production. Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows or the Standardized Measure. Under the Standardized Measure, future cash flows are estimated by applying year-end prices, adjusted for fixed and determinable escalations, to the estimated future production of year-end Proved Reserves. Future cash inflows are reduced by estimated future production and development costs based on period-end costs to determine pre-tax cash inflows. Future income taxes are computed by applying the statutory tax rate to the excess of pre-tax cash inflows over our tax basis in the associated properties. Future net cash inflows after income taxes are discounted using a 10% annual discount rate to arrive at the Standardized Measure. Tcf. One trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Tcfe. One trillion cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Undeveloped Acreage. Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains Proved Reserves. 3-D seismic. Geophysical data that depict the subsurface strata in three dimensions. 3-D seismic typically provides a more detailed and accurate interpretation of the subsurface strata than 2-D, or two-dimensional, seismic. Workovers. Operations on a producing well to restore or increase production. Available information We make our filings with the SEC available on our website at www.excoresources.com. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this annual report, including those risks identified in “Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of 29 operations,” describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this annual report. Risks relating to our business Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, which have been volatile at times, may adversely affect our revenues as well as our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness and obtain additional capital on attractive terms. Our future financial condition, access to capital, cash flow and results of operations depend upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas. We are particularly dependent on prices for natural gas. As of December 31, 2006, 92% of our Proved Reserves were natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Factors that affect the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas include: · the level of domestic production; · the availability of imported oil and natural gas; · political and economic conditions and events in foreign oil and natural gas producing nations, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; · the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; · the cost and availability of transportation and pipeline systems with adequate capacity; · the cost and availability of other competitive fuels; · fluctuating and seasonal demand for oil and natural gas; · conservation and the extent of governmental price controls and regulation of production; · weather; · foreign and domestic government relations; and · overall economic conditions. Our revenues and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. Our use of derivative financial instruments may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in our making cash payments. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter into derivative financial instrument arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil and natural gas production over a fixed period of time. Derivative financial instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following: · the counterparty to the derivative financial instrument contract may default on its contractual obligations to us; 30 · there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative financial instrument agreement and actual prices received; or · market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments. Our use of derivative financial instruments could have the effect of reducing our revenues and the value of our common stock, and making it more difficult for us to pay dividends on our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we made cash settlement payments on our derivative financial instrument contracts totaling $85.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we received cash settlements from our counterparties totaling $29.4 million. For the year ended December 31, 2006, a $1.00 increase in the average commodity price per Mcfe would have resulted in an increase in cash settlement payments (or a decrease in settlements received) of approximately $30.0 million. As of December 31, 2006, the net unrealized gains on our derivative financial instrument contracts was $96.4 million. The ultimate settlement amount of these unrealized derivative financial instrument contracts is dependent on future commodity prices. In connection with the acquisitions of TXOK and Winchester, we assumed additional derivative financial instruments that TXOK and Winchester had entered into covering a significant portion of their estimated future production. In connection with the pending acquisitions of the Vernon Assets and the Southern Gas Assets, we expect to assume additional derivative financial instruments from Anadarko covering a significant portion of estimated future production. We may incur significant unrealized losses in the future from our use of derivative financial instruments to the extent market prices increase and our derivatives contracts remain in place. See “Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Our liquidity, capital resources and capital commitments—Derivative financial instruments.” We will face risks associated with our recent and pending acquisitions relating to difficulties in integrating operations, potential disruptions of operations, and related negative impact on earnings. The acquisitions of TXOK and Winchester represented a significant increase in our reserves and production. These acquisitions are the largest acquisitions that we have completed to date. As a result of the TXOK and Winchester acquisitions, as of December 31, 2006, we added 1,751 gross (1,042.7 net) wells to our consolidated portfolio of wells, including approximately 1,083 gross operated wells, which materially increased the number of wells we currently operate. If the pending acquisitions of the Vernon Assets for $1.6 billion in cash, subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments, and the Southern Gas Assets for $860.0 million in cash, subject to post-closing purchase price adjustments, are consummated, they will be significant acquisitions for us. We expect to add approximately 1,677 gross wells in connection with the pending acquisitions from Anadarko. All of these factors present significant integration challenges for us. In addition to the other general acquisition risks described elsewhere in this section, the magnitude of theses acquisitions could strain our managerial, financial, accounting, technical, operational and administrative resources, disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards as well as our internal controls and procedures. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with these acquisitions, all of which could negatively impact our results of operations and our ability to generate cash needed to service our debt and fund our capital program and other working capital requirements. 31 We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to fund the acquisition of Winchester, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. Concurrent with the acquisition of Winchester, we contributed Winchester Acquisition to our wholly-owned subsidiary, EXCO Partners. In addition, we also contributed all of our East Texas oil and natural gas properties, related pipeline and gathering systems, compressors and other production related equipment, and contracts, including financial derivative instruments associated with our East Texas production, to EXCO Partners in exchange for a payment to us of $150.0 million in cash. To finance the acquisition and the $150.0 million payment to us for our East Texas assets, EXCO Partners’ wholly-owned subsidiary, EPOP, entered into the EPOP Revolving Credit Facility. The initial amount borrowed under this facility was $651.0 million at closing of the acquisition of Winchester. As of December 31, 2006, $643.5 million was outstanding under the EPOP Revolving Credit Facility. In connection with the acquisition and our asset contribution, EPOP also entered into the EPOP Senior Term Credit Agreement. The aggregate principal amount of the Senior Term Credit Agreement is $650.0 million. In connection with the arrangement of the Senior Term Credit Agreement, the lenders required us to enter into the Contribution Agreement. The Contribution Agreement generally provides that on the date 18 months from the Equity Contribution Date, we will make a cash common equity contribution to EPOP in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) $150.0 million or (ii) the aggregate amount then outstanding under the Senior Term Credit Agreement; provided, that in no event can this obligation exceed during the term of the Contribution Agreement the maximum amount that we could contribute under the terms of the Indenture governing our senior notes. Alternatively, we can cause EXCO Partners to make the equity contribution to EPOP in the amount of $150.0 million to satisfy this obligation. In lieu of requiring the equity contribution to be made, the lenders can elect at the Equity Contribution Date to require EPOP and its subsidiaries to become “Restricted Subsidiaries” under our credit agreement and require us to provide and cause all then Restricted Subsidiaries as defined and constituted under our credit agreement to provide guarantees and collateral in respect of the Senior Term Credit Agreement on terms substantially consistent with the guarantees and collateral provided under our credit agreement. This requirement is subject to compliance with our credit agreement. Any cash so contributed shall be used by EPOP to prepay loans under the Senior Term Credit Agreement. EXCO Resources and its subsidiaries are prohibited from making restricted payments (as defined in the Indenture) that would constitute a utilization of the Indenture restricted payment baskets, other than Restricted Payments not to exceed $5.0 million. In addition, we have covenanted to redeem or defease our senior notes if the Indenture would not permit the equity contribution or the lenders’ election to cause us to designate EPOP and its subsidiaries as Restricted Subsidiaries under our credit agreement (subject to certain restrictions on the indebtedness that may be incurred for any such redemption or defeasance if the election to cause the designation of EPOP as a Restricted Subsidiary is chosen). The success of our natural gas gathering and transportation business depends upon our ability to continually obtain new sources of natural gas supply, and any decrease in supplies of natural gas could reduce our transportation revenues. Our gathering and transportation pipelines are connected to natural gas reserves and wells, for which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our pipelines, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. We may not be able to obtain additional third party contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transportation pipelines include: (1) the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems and (2) our ability to compete for the commitment of such additional volumes to our systems. 32 Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations other than our own drilling, the amount of reserves underlying the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over third party producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. We face strong competition in acquiring new natural gas supplies. Competitors to our pipeline operations include major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and other natural gas gatherers. Competition for natural gas supplies is primarily based on the location of pipeline facilities, pricing arrangements, reputation, efficiency, flexibility and reliability. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our gathering and transportation pipelines because of decreased drilling activity in the areas in which we operate or because of an inability to connect new supplies of gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transportation pipelines, then our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our gathering and transportation pipelines become unavailable to transport or process natural gas, our revenues and cash could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options from our transportation and gathering pipelines for the benefit of our customers. All of the natural gas transported by Winchester’s pipeline must be processed by processing plants before delivery into a pipeline for natural gas. Winchester does not own or control any of these processing plants. If the processing plants to which we deliver natural gas were to become temporarily or permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to pipelines, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity or other causes, our customers would be unable to deliver natural gas to end markets. Either of such events could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not own all of the land on which our transportation and gathering pipelines and gathering system are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our transportation and gathering pipelines have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We expect to incur a substantial amount of indebtedness to fund the acquisitions of the Vernon Assets and the Southern Gas Assets, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. To finance the acquisitions of the Vernon Assets and the Southern Gas Assets, we received a Commitment Letter from J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., providing for a senior secured revolving credit facility commitment in the amount of $1.8 billion and an undertaking to arrange a bridge loan facility in the amount of $1.1 billion, if requested. If used to finance the acquisitions, the new credit facilities will contain customary representations, warranties and covenants, and the closing 33 of the new credit facilities will be subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. To service this indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt under the new credit facilities, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. We are also pursuing other financing alternatives. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves, which would reduce our revenues and access to capital. Our success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are profitable to produce. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and the number and attractiveness of properties for sale. If we are unable to conduct successful development activities or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves, our total Proved Reserves will generally decline as a result of production. Also, our production will generally decline. In addition, if our reserves and production decline, then the amount we are able to borrow under our credit agreement will also decline. We may be unable to locate additional reserves, drill economically productive wells or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves. We may not identify all risks associated with the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, which may result in unexpected liabilities and costs to us. Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual property involved in an acquisition. Our business strategy focuses on acquisitions of producing oil and natural gas properties. Any future acquisitions will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and ERISA liabilities, and other liabilities and other similar factors. Ordinarily, our review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties. For example, in the TXOK and Winchester acquisitions we did not review title or production data for, or physically inspect, every well we acquired. Even a detailed review of properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. The indemnifications we received in the TXOK and Winchester acquisitions are subject to floors and caps and do not cover all these types of risks. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to implement our growth strategy. The growth of our business will require substantial capital on a continuing basis. Because of our issuance of the senior notes and the pledge of substantially all of our assets as collateral under our credit agreements, it may be difficult for us in the foreseeable future to obtain debt financing on an unsecured basis or to obtain additional secured financing other than purchase money indebtedness. If we are unable 34 to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and businesses and, therefore, unable to implement our growth strategy. We may not be successful in managing our growth, which could adversely affect our operations and net revenues. The pursuit of additional acquisitions is a key part of our strategy. We face challenges in growing our managerial, financial, accounting, technical, operational and administrative resources to keep up with the pace of the growth of our business and our significant corporate transactions such as the Equity Buyout and our IPO. For example, our rapid growth and significant transactions over the past two years have strained, and could continue to strain, our financial, tax and accounting staff. The size and scope of our business from an operational, personnel, financial reporting and accounting perspective has substantially increased due to the TXOK and Winchester acquisitions and will further increase due to the pending acquisitions of the Vernon Assets and the Southern Gas Assets. Our growth could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards as well as internal controls and procedures. Failure to manage our growth successfully could adversely affect our operations and net revenues through increased operating costs and revenues that do not meet our expectations, as well as adversely affect our ability to satisfy our disclosure and other obligations. We may also be unable to successfully integrate acquired oil and natural gas properties into our operations or achieve desired profitability. If we are unable to successfully prevent or address material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or any other control deficiencies, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis and to comply with disclosure and other requirements may be adversely affected. We are not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and are therefore not required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. However, in connection with the 2004 and the 2005 audits of the financial statements of EXCO Resources, we reported a material weakness in Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, prior to the quarter ended September 30, 2006, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective due to a material weakness relating to accounting for income taxes. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Our management concluded that as of December 31, 2005, we did not maintain effective controls over the preparation and review of the quarterly and annual tax provision and the related financial statement presentation and disclosure of income tax matters. Specifically, our controls were not adequate to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the tax provision and the deferred tax balances, including the timing and classification of recording the tax impact of an extraordinary dividend. This control deficiency resulted in the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005 and audit adjustments to the consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, affecting income tax expense and the deferred tax liability accounts. Additionally, this control deficiency could have resulted in a misstatement in the aforementioned tax accounts that would result in a material misstatement to the annual or interim financial statements that would not have been prevented or detected. Accordingly, management concluded that this deficiency in internal control over financial reporting was a material weakness. Although we believe we have taken the necessary steps to remediate this material weakness, as described in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we may identify additional material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these and other processes, procedures and controls and will make any further changes management determines appropriate, including to effect compliance 35 with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 when we are required to make an assessment of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 for fiscal 2007. Any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to comply with SEC reporting requirements and New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listing standards or cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements, which could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, as well as subject us to civil or criminal investigations and penalties. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we have taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of the company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We may encounter obstacles to marketing our oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our revenues. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production will depend upon the availability and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and other transportation facilities. We are primarily dependent upon third parties to transport our products. Transportation space on the gathering systems and pipelines we utilize is occasionally limited or unavailable due to repairs or improvements to facilities or due to space being utilized by other companies that have priority transportation agreements. We experienced production curtailments in the Appalachian Basin during 2004, 2005 and 2006 resulting from capacity restraints and short term shutdowns of certain pipelines for maintenance purposes. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of markets are beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas, the value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends on our company stock. 36 There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact the results of our operations. Our drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs. We must incur significant expenditures to identify and acquire properties and to drill and complete wells. Additionally, seismic technology does not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or economically producible. The costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. We have experienced some delays in contracting for drilling rigs and increasing costs to drill wells. All of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not correctly evaluate reserve data or the exploitation potential of properties as we engage in our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our future success will depend on the success of our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our decisions to purchase, develop or otherwise exploit properties or prospects will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Our estimates regarding the increase in our reserves and production resulting from the Winchester and TXOK acquisitions may prove to be incorrect, which could significantly reduce our ability to generate cash needed to service our debt and fund our capital program and other working capital requirements. We cannot control the development of the properties we own but do not operate, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, third parties operate wells that represent approximately 10% of our Proved Reserves. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on those properties depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: · the timing and amount of capital expenditures; · the operators’ expertise and financial resources; · the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and · the selection of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves involve inherent uncertainty, which could materially affect the quantity and value of our reported reserves and our financial condition. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves, including many factors beyond our control. This annual report contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon reports of our own engineers and our independent petroleum engineers. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC as to constant oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. These estimates should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated Proved Reserves. The process of 37 estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, the estimates are inherently imprecise evaluations of reserve quantities and future net revenue. Our actual future production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from those we have assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of PV-10 described in this annual report, and our financial condition. In addition, our reserves or PV-10 may be revised downward or upward, based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can adversely impact the estimated volumes of our reserves. Similarly, a decline in market prices for oil or natural gas may adversely affect our PV-10. Any of these negative effects on our reserves or PV-10 may decrease the value of our common stock. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of: · fires, explosions and blowouts; · pipe failures; · abnormally pressured formations; and · environmental accidents such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination). We have in the past experienced some of these events during our drilling operations. These events may result in substantial losses to us from: · injury or loss of life; · severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; · pollution or other environmental damage; · environmental clean-up responsibilities; · regulatory investigation; · penalties and suspension of operations; or · attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover these potential losses or liabilities. Furthermore, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at commercially acceptable premium levels or at all. Due to cost considerations, from time to time we have declined to obtain coverage for certain drilling activities and have therefore been restricted from conducting these types of drilling activities during the period we were uninsured. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could require us to make large unbudgeted cash expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. 38 Our business exposes us to liability and extensive regulation on environmental matters, which could result in substantial expenditures. Our operations are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of materials into the water and air, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. We could incur material costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own activities, but may also expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for actions by us that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, we could incur substantial expenditures complying with environmental laws and regulations, including future environmental laws and regulations which may be more stringent. Our business substantially depends on Douglas H. Miller, our CEO. We are substantially dependent upon the skills of Mr. Douglas H. Miller. Mr. Miller has extensive experience in acquiring, financing and restructuring oil and natural gas companies. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Miller or maintain key man insurance. The loss of the services of Mr. Miller could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We may have write-downs of our asset values, which could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth. Depending upon oil and natural gas prices in the future, we may be required to write-down the value of our oil and natural gas properties if the present value of the after-tax future cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties falls below the net book value of these properties. We have in the past experienced ceiling test writedowns with respect to our oil and natural gas properties. Future non-cash ceiling test write-downs could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth. We also test goodwill for impairment annually or when circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. If the book value of our reporting units, as defined, exceeds the fair value of those reporting units, an impairment charge will occur, which could negatively impact our net worth. We may experience a financial loss if any of our significant customers fail to pay us for our oil or natural gas. Our ability to collect the proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas from our customers depends on the payment ability of our customer base, which includes several significant customers. If any one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us for any reason, we could experience a material loss. In addition, in recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our oil and natural gas production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced market liquidity and, in some cases, has made it difficult for us to identify creditworthy customers. We also sell a portion of our natural gas directly to end users. We may experience a material loss as a result of the failure of our customers to pay us for prior purchases of our oil or natural gas. We may experience a temporary decline in revenues if we lose one of our significant customers. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales of natural gas to one interstate pipeline company accounted for 11.6% of our total oil and natural gas revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, sales of natural gas to one industrial customer accounted for 10.1% and 10.6%, respectively, of our total oil and natural gas revenues. In 2006, our top eight customers accounted for approximately 38.2% of our total oil and natural gas revenues. To the extent any significant customer reduces the volume of its 39 natural gas purchases from us, we could experience a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas. Competition in our industry is intense and we may be unable to compete in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and hiring experienced personnel. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from other independent operators and from major oil companies in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources and personnel substantially larger than ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases, or to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources will permit. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. We are currently experiencing difficulties in obtaining drilling rigs and other services in certain areas as well as an increase in the cost for these services and related material and equipment. We are unable to predict how such shortages and price increases will affect our development and exploitation program. Competition has also been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in the accounting and financial reporting, tax and land departments. In addition, competition is strong for attractive oil and natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies, and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. We are often outbid by competitors in our attempts to acquire properties or companies. All of these challenges could make it more difficult to execute our growth strategy and increase our costs. Risks relating to our indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of March 1, 2007, we had approximately $2.1 billion of indebtedness, including $1.7 billion of indebtedness which is subject to variable interest rates. Our total interest expense on an annual basis would be approximately $180.0 million and would change by approximately $17.0 million for every 1% change in interest rates. Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: · it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt agreements, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the Indenture governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; · we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; · the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; · we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; · we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; · we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices; and 40 · our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will be unable to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money to service our debt, we may be required but unable to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, failing to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes could result in an event of default, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantially more debt, which may intensify the risks described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. Together with our subsidiaries, we may incur substantially more debt in the future in connection with our acquisition, development, exploitation and exploration of oil and natural gas producing properties. The restrictions in our debt agreements on our incurrence of additional indebtedness are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our senior notes and loans under our credit agreements, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our senior notes and loans under our credit agreements, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: · dispose of assets; · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock; 41 · pay dividends on our capital stock; · create liens on our assets; · enter into sale or leaseback transactions; · enter into specified investments or acquisitions; · repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; · merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; · engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or · pursue other corporate activities. Also, our credit agreements require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit arrangements and our senior notes. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit arrangements and our senior notes. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. We amended certain financial covenants under the EPOP Revolving Credit Facility due to our inability to meet certain financial covenants associated with our EPOP Revolving Credit Facility (—See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, capital resources and commitments—EPOP Revolving Credit Facility.”) Risks relating to our common stock Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on February 9, 2006. An active trading market may not be sustained. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of: · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of public market analysis; · announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; · conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry; · the success of our operating strategy; and · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. 42 Many of these factors are beyond our control and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. As of March 1, 2007, we had 104,221,015 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these shares, 70,628,370 shares are freely tradable, unless any of these shares are held by our affiliates. Many of our shareholders, including our executive officers and directors, are subject to agreements that limit their ability to sell our common stock held by them. On October 3, 2005, we entered into a registration rights agreement with all of the holders of our common stock, which agreement was amended by the First Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement. A total of 50,388,889 shares of common stock were covered by this agreement. Any holder who is a party to this agreement has the right, commencing 180 days after completion of the IPO on February 14, 2006, to require us to register for resale up to one-third of their shares of common stock. All other parties to the registration rights agreement would then have the right to require us to register for resale up to one-third of their shares of common stock on the same registration statement. On January 17, 2007, our registration statement covering 16,796,244 shares was declared effective by the SEC. The same rights exist commencing 365 days and 540 days after February 14, 2006 for an additional one-third of their shares at each such anniversary. These time and volume restrictions on resale registrations may be waived by J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. based on its evaluation of market and other conditions. On January 11, 2007, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and EXCO executed a waiver letter that allows selling shareholders to request that we register for resale the remaining two-thirds of their shares at any time after February 14, 2007. On February 15, 2007, we received a request from one of our shareholders to register the remaining two-thirds of his shares in accordance with the registration rights agreement. We expect to register 33,592,645 shares, the remaining two-thirds of the shares subject to the registration rights agreement, as soon as practicable after the filing of this annual report. In addition, at any time that we file a registration statement registering other shares, the holders of shares subject to the registration rights agreement can require that we include their shares in such registration statement, subject to certain exceptions. The filing of any resale registration statement and the sale of shares thereunder may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The equity trading markets may be volatile, which could result in losses for our shareholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Our articles of incorporation permit us to issue preferred stock that may restrict a takeover attempt that you may favor. Our articles of incorporation permit our board to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to establish, by resolution, one or more series of preferred stock and the powers, designations, preferences and participating, optional or other special rights of each series of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued on terms that are unfavorable to the holders of our common stock, including the grant of 43 superior voting rights, the grant of preferences in favor of preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and the designation of conversion rights that entitle holders of our preferred stock to convert their shares into our common stock on terms that are dilutive to holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock in future offerings may make a takeover or change in control of us more difficult. We are considering the issuance of up to $2.0 billion of preferred stock to institutional accredited investors in a private placement under the Securities Act of 1933. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, capital resources and capital commitments—Proposed recapitalization.” We have not entered into definitive agreements with potential investors to issue any preferred stock. As a result, we may never issue any preferred stock. In addition, any preferred stock that we ultimately issue may contain terms different from those provided in this annual report. We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future, and any return on investment may be limited to the value of our stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. In addition, our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes restrict the payment of dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 