Item 1A. Risk Factors - We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.” We currently carry automobile liability, general liability and excess liability insurance with a combined annual limit of $101 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. These insurance policies contain maximum policy limits and deductibles ranging from $1,000 to $25,000 that must be met prior to recovery, and are subject to customary exclusions and limitations. Our automobile and general liability insurance covers us and our subsidiaries for third-party claims and liabilities arising out of lease operations and related activities. The excess liability insurance is in addition to, and is triggered if; the automobile and general liability insurance per occurrence limit is reached. Further, we currently carry $45 million of pollution coverage, $25 million of well control (blowout) coverage and $79 million of wellhead, surface equipment and tank coverage with deductibles ranging from $100,000 to $500,000.We require our third-party contractors to sign master service agreements in which they generally agree to indemnify us for the injury and death of the service provider's employees as well as contractors and subcontractors that are hired by the service provider. Similarly, we agree to indemnify our third-party contractors against claims made by our employees and our other contractors. Additionally, each party generally is responsible for damage to its own property. Our third-party contractors that perform hydraulic fracturing operations for us sign master service agreements containing the indemnification provisions noted above. We do not currently have any insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations. We believe that our general liability, excess liability and pollution insurance policies would cover third-party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses, in accordance with, and subject to, the terms of such policies. However, these policies generally will not cover fines and penalties. Further, these policies may not cover the costs and expenses related to government-mandated environmental clean-up responsibilities, or may do so on a limited basis. Our employees As of December 31, 2015, we employed 315 persons. None of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages due to labor problems, and 24we consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We also utilize the services of independent consultants and contractors. Forward-looking statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("the Exchange Act"). These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the following: •our future financial and operating performance and results; •our business strategy; •market prices; •our future use of derivative financial instruments; and •our plans and forecasts. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. We use the words “may,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “continue,” “intend,” “plan,” “potential,” “project,” “budget” and other similar words to identify forward-looking statements. The statements that contain these words should be read carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of results of operations or our financial condition and/or state other “forward-looking” information. We do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable securities laws. These statements also involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results or financial condition to materially differ from our expectations in this prospectus and the documents incorporated herein by reference, including, but not limited to:•fluctuations in the prices of oil and natural gas;•the availability of oil and natural gas;•future capital requirements and availability of financing, including limitations on our ability to incur certain types of indebtedness under our debt agreements;•our ability to meet our current and future debt service obligations, including our ability to maintain compliance with our debt covenants;•disruption of credit and capital markets and the ability of financial institutions to honor their commitments;•estimates of reserves and economic assumptions, including estimates related to acquisitions and dispositions of oil and natural gas properties;•geological concentration of our reserves;•risks associated with drilling and operating wells;•exploratory risks, including those related to our activities in shale formations;•discovery, acquisition, development and replacement of oil and natural gas reserves;•cash flow and liquidity;•timing and amount of future production of oil and natural gas;•availability of drilling and production equipment;•availability of water and other materials for drilling and completion activities; •marketing of oil and natural gas;•political and economic conditions and events in oil-producing and natural gas-producing countries;•title to our properties;•litigation;•competition;•our ability to attract and retain key personnel;•general economic conditions, including costs associated with drilling and operations of our properties;•our ability to comply with the listing requirements of, and maintain the listing of our common shares on, the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE");•environmental or other governmental regulations, including legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, legislation of derivative financial instruments, regulation of hydraulic fracture stimulation and elimination of income tax incentives available to our industry;•receipt and collectability of amounts owed to us by purchasers of our production and counterparties to our derivative financial instruments;•decisions whether or not to enter into derivative financial instruments;•potential acts of terrorism;•our ability to manage joint ventures with third parties, including the resolution of any material disagreements and our partners’ ability to satisfy obligations under these arrangements;25•actions of third party co-owners of interests in properties in which we also own an interest;•fluctuations in interest rates; •our ability to effectively integrate companies and properties that we acquire; and•our ability to execute our business strategies and other corporate actions.We believe that it is important to communicate our expectations of future performance to our investors. However, events may occur in the future that we are unable to accurately predict, or over which we have no control. We caution users of the financial statements not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. When considering our forward-looking statements, keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risk factors noted in this Annual Report on Form 10-K provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Please see “Risk Factors” for a discussion of certain risks related to our business, indebtedness and common shares.Our revenues, operating results and financial condition depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas and the availability of capital from the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement and other sources. Declines in oil or natural gas prices may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, the amount of oil or natural gas that we can produce economically and the ability to fund our operations. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile.Glossary of selected oil and natural gas terms The following are abbreviations and definitions of terms commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry and this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2-D seismic. Geophysical data that depicts the subsurface strata in two dimensions. 3-D seismic. Geophysical data that depicts the subsurface strata in three dimensions. 3-D seismic typically provides a more detailed and accurate interpretation of the subsurface strata than 2-D seismic. Appraisal wells. Wells drilled to convert an area or sub-region from the resource to the reserves category. Analogous reservoir. Analogous reservoirs, as used in resources assessments, have similar rock and fluid properties, reservoir conditions (depth, temperature, and pressure) and drive mechanisms, but are typically at a more advanced stage of development than the reservoir of interest and thus may provide concepts to assist in the interpretation of more limited data and estimation of recovery. When used to support proved reserves, an “analogous reservoir” refers to a reservoir that shares the following characteristics with the reservoir of interest: (i) same geological formation (but not necessarily in pressure communication with the reservoir of interest); (ii) same environment of deposition; (iii) similar geological structure; and (iv) same drive mechanism.Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used in reference to oil, NGLs or other liquid hydrocarbons. Bcf. One billion cubic feet of natural gas. Bcfe. One billion cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. This ratio of Bbl to Mcf is commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry and represents the approximate energy equivalent of natural gas to oil or NGLs, and does not represent the sales price equivalency of natural gas to oil or NGLs. Currently the sales price of a Bbl or NGL is significantly higher than the sales price of six Mcf of natural gas.Boepd. Barrels of oil equivalent per day. Btu. British thermal unit, which is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one pound mass of water from 58.5 to 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit. Completion. The installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or natural gas, or, in the case of a dry hole, the reporting to the appropriate authority that the well has been abandoned. Deterministic method. The method of estimating reserves or resources when a single value for each parameter (from the geoscience, engineering, or economic data) in the reserves calculation is used in the reserves estimation procedure. Developed acreage. The number of acres which are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production. Development well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or natural gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. 26Dry hole; Dry well. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or natural gas well. Economically producible. As it relates to a resource, a resource which generates revenue that exceeds, or is reasonably expected to exceed, the costs of the operation.Estimated ultimate recovery (EUR). Estimated ultimate recovery is the sum of reserves remaining as of a given date and cumulative production as of that date.Exploitation. The continuing development of a known producing formation in a previously discovered field. To maximize the ultimate recovery of oil or natural gas from the field by development wells, secondary recovery equipment or other suitable processes and technology. Exploratory well. An exploratory well is a well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or natural gas in another reservoir. Generally, an exploratory well is any well that is not a development well, a service well, or a stratigraphic test well. Farmout. An assignment of an interest in a drilling location and related acreage conditional upon the drilling of a well on that location. Formation. A succession of sedimentary beds that were deposited under the same general geologic conditions. Fracture stimulation. A stimulation treatment routinely performed involving the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure to stimulate hydrocarbon production. Full cost pool. The full cost pool consists of all costs associated with property acquisition, exploration, and development activities for a company using the full cost method of accounting. Additionally, any internal costs that can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration and development activities are included. Any costs related to production, general corporate overhead or similar activities are not included. Gross acres or gross wells. The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. Held-by-production. A provision in an oil, natural gas and mineral lease that perpetuates a company's right to operate a property or concession as long as the property or concession produces a minimum paying quantity of oil or natural gas. Horizontal wells. Wells which are drilled at angles greater than 70 degrees from vertical. Initial production rate. Generally, the maximum 24 hour production volume from a well. Mbbl. One thousand stock tank barrels. Mcf. One thousand cubic feet of natural gas. Mcfe. One thousand cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas.Mmbbl. One million stock tank barrels. Mmbtu. One million British thermal units. Mmcf. One million cubic feet of natural gas. Mmcf/d. One million cubic feet of natural gas per day. Mmcfe. One million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. This ratio of Bbl to Mcf is commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry and represents the approximate energy equivalent of natural gas to oil or NGLs, and does not represent the sales price equivalency of natural gas to oil or NGLs. Currently the sales price of a Bbl or NGL is significantly higher than the sales price of six Mcf of natural gas. Mmcfe/d. One million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent per day calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Mmmbtu. One billion British thermal units. Net acres or net wells. Exists when the sum of fractional ownership interests owned in gross acres or gross wells equals one. We compute the number of net wells by totaling the percentage interest we hold in all our gross wells.NYMEX. New York Mercantile Exchange. NGLs. The combination of ethane, propane, butane and natural gasolines that when removed from natural gas become liquid under various levels of higher pressure and lower temperature. Overriding royalty interest. An interest in an oil and/or natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production free of the costs of production. 27Pad drilling. The drilling of multiple wells from the same site. Play. A term applied to a portion of the exploration and production cycle following the identification by geologists and geophysicists of areas with potential oil and natural gas reserves. Present value of estimated future net revenues or PV-10. The present value of estimated future net revenues is an estimate of future net revenues from a property at the date indicated, without giving effect to derivative financial instrument activities, after deducting production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs, abandonment costs and operating expenses, but before deducting future income taxes. The future net revenues have been discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their “present value.” The present value is shown to indicate the effect of time on the value of the net revenue stream and should not be construed as being the fair market value of the properties. Estimates have been made using constant oil and natural gas prices and operating and capital costs at the date indicated, at its acquisition date, or as otherwise indicated. Probabilistic method. The method of estimation of reserves or resources when the full range of values that could reasonably occur for each unknown parameter (from the geoscience and engineering data) is used to generate a full range of possible outcomes and their associated probabilities of occurrence. Productive well. A productive well is a well that is not a dry well. Proved Developed Reserves. These reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered: (i) through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and (ii) through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. Proved Reserves. Proved oil and natural gas reserves are those quantities of oil and natural gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with Reasonable Certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations, prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes: (i) the area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and (ii) adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with Reasonable Certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data. In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with Reasonable Certainty. Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with Reasonable Certainty. Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when: (i) successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the Reasonable Certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and (ii) the project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities. Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Proved Undeveloped Reserves. Reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes Reasonable Certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time. 28Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing Reasonable Certainty. Recompletion. An operation within an existing well bore to make the well produce oil and/or natural gas from a different, separately producible zone other than the zone from which the well had been producing. Reasonable Certainty. If deterministic methods are used, Reasonable Certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to EUR with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease. Reservoir. A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or natural gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reservoirs. Resources. Resources are quantities of oil and natural gas estimated to exist in naturally occurring accumulations. A portion of the resources may be estimated to be recoverable, and another portion may be considered to be unrecoverable. Resources include both discovered and undiscovered accumulations. Royalty interest. An interest in an oil and/or natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production free of the costs of production. Shale. Fine-grained sedimentary rock composed mostly of consolidated clay or mud. Shale is the most frequently occurring sedimentary rock. Shut-in well. A producing well that has been closed down temporarily for, among other things, economics, cleaning out, building up pressure, lack of a market or lack of equipment. Spud. To start the well drilling process. Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows or the Standardized Measure. Under the Standardized Measure, future cash flows are estimated by applying the simple average spot prices for the trailing 12 month period using the first day of each month beginning on January 1 and ending on December 1 of each respective year, adjusted for price differentials, to the estimated future production of year-end Proved Reserves. Future cash inflows are reduced by estimated future production and development costs based on period-end and future plugging and abandonment costs to determine pre-tax cash inflows. Future income taxes are computed by applying the statutory tax rate to the excess of pre-tax cash inflows over our tax basis in the associated properties. Future net cash inflows after income taxes are discounted using a 10% annual discount rate to arrive at the Standardized Measure. Stock tank barrel. 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume. Tcf. One trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Tcfe. One trillion cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. This ratio of Bbl to Mcf is commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry and represents the approximate energy equivalent of natural gas to oil or NGLs, and does not represent the sales price equivalency of natural gas to oil or NGLs. Currently the sales price of a Bbl or NGL is significantly higher than the sales price for six Mcf of natural gas.Undeveloped acreage. Leased acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of economic quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains Proved Reserves. Working interest. The operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct activities on the property and a share of production. Workovers. Operations on a producing well to restore or increase production. Available information We make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports on our website at www.excoresources.com as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports and other information is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 29Item 1A.Risk Factors The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks identified in “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our BusinessOil and natural gas prices, which are subject to fluctuations, have declined substantially from historical highs and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. The depression in oil and natural gas prices has, and is expected to continue to, adversely affect our revenues as well as our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness and obtain additional capital on attractive terms.Our future financial condition, access to capital, cash flow and results of operations depend upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas. We are particularly dependent on prices for natural gas. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 86% of our Proved Reserves, 89% of our production and 69% of our total revenues were natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During 2015, the NYMEX price for natural gas fluctuated from a high of $3.23 per Mmbtu to a low of $1.76 per Mmbtu, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil price ranged from a high of $61.43 per Bbl to a low of $34.73 per Bbl. For the five years ended December 31, 2015, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $6.15 per Mmbtu to a low of $1.76 per Mmbtu, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate ("WTI") crude oil price ranged from a high of $113.93 per Bbl to a low of $34.73 per Bbl. During 2015, oil and natural gas prices experienced a significant decline and the depression of oil and natural gas prices may continue for the foreseeable future. On December 31, 2015, the spot market price for natural gas at Henry Hub was $2.34 per Mmbtu, a 19% decrease from December 31, 2014. On December 31, 2015, the spot market price for crude oil at Cushing was $37.04 per Bbl, a 30% decrease from December 31, 2014. For 2015, our average realized prices (before the impact of derivative financial instruments) for oil and natural gas were $43.89 per Bbl and $2.05 per Mcf, respectively, compared with 2014 average realized prices of $87.80 per Bbl and $3.79 per Mcf, respectively. Our revenues, cash flow and profitability and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. The lower average prices realized for oil and natural gas in 2015, coupled with the slow recovery in financial markets that has significantly limited and increased the cost of capital, have compelled most oil and natural gas producers, including us, to reduce levels of exploration, drilling and production activity. This has had a significant effect on our capital resources, liquidity and operating results. Any sustained reductions in oil and natural gas prices will directly affect our revenues and can indirectly impact expected production by changing the amount of funds available to us to reinvest in exploration and development activities. Further reductions in oil and natural gas prices could also reduce the quantities of reserves that are commercially recoverable. A reduction in our reserves could have other adverse consequences, including a possible downward redetermination of the availability of borrowings under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement, which would further restrict our liquidity. Additionally, further or continued declines in prices could result in additional non-cash charges to earnings due to impairments to our oil and natural gas properties. Any such impairments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken.Changes in the differential between NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price used to price our actual oil and natural gas sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The reference or regional index prices that we use to price our oil and natural gas sales sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a differential. We cannot accurately predict oil and natural gas differentials. Changes in differentials between the benchmark price for oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price we reference in our sales 30contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced significant volatility in our price differentials including crude oil production from the Eagle Ford shale and natural gas production from certain areas in Appalachia. Our crude oil production from the Eagle Ford shale is currently sold at a price based on the Phillips 66 West Texas Intermediate index plus or minus the differential to the Argus Louisiana Light Sweet index. During 2015, the monthly average of this differential ranged from a high of Phillips 66 West Texas Intermediate plus $6.68 per barrel to a low of Phillips 66 West Texas Intermediate plus $1.40 per barrel. Our natural gas production from the Marcellus shale in Northeast Pennsylvania is sold at a price based on a Platts index that represents value into the Transco Leidy Pipeline. Due to the increased production in this region without an offsetting increase in pipeline capacity or infrastructure to the Northeast United States markets, this differential in 2015 ranged from a low of NYMEX less $0.87 per Mmbtu to a high of NYMEX less $1.85 per Mmbtu. These differentials vary depending on factors such as supply, demand, pipeline capacity, infrastructure, and weather. Continuing impairments of our asset values could have a substantial negative effect on our results of operations and net worth.We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and natural gas properties. Depending upon oil and natural gas prices in the future, and at the end of each quarterly and annual period when we are required to test the carrying value of our assets using full cost accounting rules, we may be required to record an impairment to the value of our oil and natural gas properties if the present value of the after-tax future cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties falls below the net book value of these properties. We have in the past experienced, and may experience in the future, ceiling test impairments with respect to our oil and natural gas properties.Our evaluation of impairment is based upon estimates of Proved Reserves. The value of our Proved Reserves may be lowered in future periods as a result of a decline in prices of oil and natural gas, a downward revision of our oil and natural gas reserves or other factors. As a result, our evaluation of impairment for future periods is subject to uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of Proved Reserves, in projecting the future rates of production and in the timing of development activities. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Because several of these factors are beyond our control, we cannot accurately predict or control the amount of ceiling test impairments in future periods. Future ceiling test impairments could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth.For the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized impairments of $1.2 billion to our proved oil and natural gas properties. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we did not recognize any impairments to our proved oil and natural gas properties and for the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized impairments of $108.5 million to our proved oil and natural gas properties. We may have additional impairments of our oil and natural gas properties in future periods if the cost of our unamortized proved oil and natural gas properties exceeds the limitation under the full cost method of accounting. As a result of the decline in oil and natural gas prices during 2015, we expect to recognize additional impairments to our oil and natural gas properties in 2016 if prices do not increase. We also may recognize impairments if some of our undeveloped locations are determined to no longer be economically viable as a result of low prices. In addition to the negative effect this has on our balance sheet and retained earnings and the reduction in our assets, future reductions in the value of our properties could cause a downward redetermination of our borrowing capacity under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement. We also test goodwill for impairment annually or when circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. If the book value of our reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value of the reporting unit, an impairment charge will occur, which would negatively impact our results of operations and net worth. As a result of our testing of goodwill for impairment, we did not record an impairment charge for the periods ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Our short-term liquidity is constrained and could severely impact our cash flow and our development of properties.Currently, our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and borrowings under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement. Our borrowing base under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement is currently $375.0 million and is scheduled for redetermination in March 2016. While we believe our existing capital resources are sufficient to conduct our operations through 2016, any reduction in our borrowing base could result in our liquidity being limited to our cash flow from operations, which is currently in decline as a result of the depressed commodity price environment. If our borrowing base is materially reduced or we are no longer able to draw on the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement or generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may not be able to fund our operations and drilling activities or pay the interest on our debt, which would result in us defaulting under our various debt instruments and may force us to seek bankruptcy protection or pursue other restructuring alternatives.31The depressed commodity price environment coupled with our substantial indebtedness and liquidity issues may impact our business and operations.In light of the depressed commodity price environment, there is risk that, among other things:•third parties’ confidence in our commercial or financial ability to explore and produce oil and natural gas could erode, which could impact our ability to execute on our business strategy;•it may become more difficult to retain, attract or replace key employees;•employees could be distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other career opportunities; and•our suppliers, hedge counterparties, vendors and service providers could renegotiate the terms of our arrangements, terminate their relationship with us or require financial assurances from us.The occurrence of certain of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.In the future, we may seek bankruptcy protection, which may harm our business and place our equity holders at significant risk of losing all of their interests in our business. We are analyzing various strategic alternatives to address our liquidity and capital structure, including strategic and refinancing alternatives. However, if oil and natural gas prices do not improve in the future, a filing under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code may be unavoidable. Seeking bankruptcy protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. So long as a proceeding related to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding is ongoing, our senior management would be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on our business operations. Bankruptcy protection also might make it more difficult to retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer a proceeding related to a bankruptcy continues, the more likely it is that our customers and suppliers would lose confidence in our ability to reorganize our businesses successfully and would seek to establish alternative commercial relationships or request financial assurances such as letters of credit and cash deposits.Additionally, we have a significant amount of indebtedness that is senior to our existing common shares in our capital structure. As a result, we believe that seeking bankruptcy protection could cause our common shares to be canceled, resulting in a limited recovery for shareholders, if any, and place equity holders at significant risk of losing all of their interests in our business.We may encounter obstacles to marketing our oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our revenues.Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production will depend upon the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines and other transportation facilities. We are primarily dependent upon third parties to transport our production. Transportation space on the gathering systems and pipelines we utilize is occasionally limited or unavailable due to repairs, outages caused by accidents or other events, or improvements to facilities or due to space being utilized by other companies that have priority transportation agreements. We have experienced production curtailments in our producing regions resulting from capacity restraints, offsetting fracturing stimulation operations and short term shutdowns of certain pipelines for maintenance purposes. As we have increased our knowledge of our shale properties, we have begun to shut in production on adjacent wells when conducting completion operations. Due to the high production capabilities of these wells, these volumes can be significant. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of markets are beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas and the value of our common shares. We have entered into marketing agreements with third-parties to sell a significant percentage of our anticipated oil and natural gas production in the East Texas, North Louisiana and South Texas regions. If these third-parties are unable or otherwise fail to market the oil and natural gas we produce, we would be required to find alternate means to market our production, which could increase our costs, reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of our oil and natural gas production or have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.32We may experience a financial loss if any of our significant customers fail to pay us for our oil or natural gas or reduce the volume of oil and natural gas that they purchase from us.Our ability to collect payments from the sale of oil and natural gas to our customers depends on the payment ability of our customer base, which includes several significant customers. If any one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us for any reason, we could experience a material loss. We are managing our credit risk as a result of the current commodity price environment through the attainment of financial assurances from certain customers. In addition, if any of our significant customers cease to purchase our oil or natural gas or reduce the volume of the oil or natural gas that they purchase from us, the loss or reduction could have a detrimental effect on our production volumes and may cause a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas. Market conditions or operational impediments, such as lack of available transportation or infrastructure, may hinder our production or adversely impact our ability to receive market prices for our production or to achieve expected drilling results.Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements or infrastructure may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The availability of a ready market for our oil and natural gas production depends on a number of factors, including the demand for and supply of oil and natural gas and the proximity of reserves to pipelines and terminal facilities. Our ability to market our production depends, in substantial part, on the availability and capacity of gathering systems, pipelines, processing facilities and oil and condensate trucking operations owned and operated by third-parties. Our failure to obtain these services on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipelines, gathering systems or trucking capacity. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of accidents, excessive pressures, maintenance, weather, field labor issues or other disruptions of service. Curtailments and disruptions may last from a few days to several months, and we have no control over when or if third-party facilities are restored.In the past we have experienced production curtailments due to infrastructure and market constraints in the Eagle Ford shale formation, which has caused oil production to be shut in and natural gas production to be shut in or flared. Any significant curtailment in gathering, processing or pipeline system capacity, significant delay in the construction of necessary facilities or lack of availability of transportation would interfere with our ability to market our oil and natural gas production, and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.We have entered into significant natural gas firm transportation and marketing agreements primarily in East Texas and North Louisiana that require us to pay fixed amounts of money to the shippers or marketers regardless of quantities actually shipped or marketed. If we are unable to deliver the necessary quantities of natural gas, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. We have entered into significant natural gas firm transportation contracts primarily in East Texas and North Louisiana that require us to pay fixed amounts of money to the shippers regardless of quantities actually shipped. The use of firm transportation agreements allows us priority space in a shippers’ pipeline. Historically, we have paid significant amounts for the unused portion of these firm transportation agreements and expect to continue incurring significant costs for unused firm transportation in the future. We have entered into an agreement to deliver an aggregate minimum volume commitment of natural gas production from the Holly and Shelby fields to certain gathering systems over a five-year period ending on December 1, 2018. If there is a shortfall to the minimum volume commitment in any year, then we are severally responsible with a joint venture partner to pay fixed amounts of money to the gatherer regardless of quantities actually produced in to the systems. For the twelve months ended December 1, 2015, our net share of the shortfall was $8.2 million and we remitted payment for this shortfall in January 2016.In addition, we have also entered into a marketing agreement with respect to our Haynesville production whereby we are required to deliver a minimum amount of natural gas from the Haynesville shale. We will be required to make material expenditures for these agreements if we fail to deliver the required quantities of natural gas in the future. We anticipate the deliveries of natural gas in future periods will not meet the minimum quantities set forth in certain of these agreements and will require us to make payments for the shortfall below the minimum quantities. In the event the quantities delivered under these arrangements are significantly below the minimum volumes within the agreements, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to develop properties in new or emerging formations may be subject to more uncertainties than drilling in areas that are more developed or have a longer history of established production.Our drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs. We must incur significant expenditures to identify and acquire properties and to drill and complete wells. Additionally, seismic and other technology does not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or economically producible. The costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. We have experienced some delays in contracting for drilling rigs, obtaining fracture stimulation crews and materials, which result in increased costs to drill wells. Also, we may experience issues with the availability of water and sand used in our drilling and hydraulic fracturing activities. All of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.The results of our drilling in new or emerging formations, including our properties in shale formations, are more uncertain initially than drilling results in areas that are developed, have established production or where we have a longer history of operation. Because new or emerging formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict future drilling results. Our experience with horizontal drilling in these areas to date, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history, while growing, is limited. The ultimate success of these drilling and completion techniques will be better evaluated over time as more wells are drilled and production profiles are better established. We have implemented several initiatives to manage our base production and minimize the decline from our shale properties. If these initiatives are not successful and we are required to incur significant expenditures to manage our base production, this could negatively impact our production and cash flows from operations. If our drilling results are less than anticipated or we are unable to execute our drilling program because of capital constraints, lease expirations, and/or natural gas and oil prices decline, our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and we could incur material impairments of undeveloped properties and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold assets are subject to leases that will expire over the next several years unless production is established on the acreage.Leases on oil and natural gas properties typically have a term after which they expire unless, prior to expiration, a well is drilled and production of hydrocarbons in paying quantities is established. If our leases expire and we are unable to renew the leases, we will lose our right to develop the related properties. While we seek to actively manage our leasehold inventory through drilling wells to hold the leasehold acreage that we believe is material to our operations, our drilling plans for these areas are subject to change.We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through joint ventures, and our failure to continue such joint ventures or resolve any material disagreements with our partners could have a material adverse effect on the success of these operations, our financial condition and our results of operations. Furthermore, the actions taken by other working interest owners could prevent or alter our development plans. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations through joint ventures with third parties, principally BG Group, plc and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. ("KKR"). We may also enter into other joint venture arrangements in the future. In many instances we depend on these third parties for elements of these arrangements that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as agreed payments of substantial development costs pertaining to the joint venture and their share of other costs of the joint venture. The performance of these third party obligations or the ability of third parties to meet their obligations under these arrangements is outside our control. If these parties do not meet or satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, the performance and success of these arrangements, and their value to us, may be adversely affected. If our current or future joint venture partners are unable to meet their obligations, we may be forced to undertake the obligations ourselves and/or incur additional expenses in order to have some other party perform such obligations. In such cases we may also be required to enforce our rights, which may cause disputes among our joint venture partners and us. If any of these events occur, they may adversely impact us, our financial performance and results of operations, these joint ventures and/or our ability to enter into future joint ventures. Such joint venture arrangements may involve risks not otherwise present when exploring and developing properties directly, including, for example:34•our joint venture partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions;•the possibility that our joint venture partners might become insolvent or bankrupt, leaving us liable for their shares of joint venture liabilities;•the possibility that we may incur liabilities as a result of an action taken by our joint venture partners;•joint venture partners may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives;•disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration, including the lawsuit filed against us by the affiliates of KKR described below, that would increase our expenses, delay or terminate projects and prevent our officers and directors from focusing their time and effort on our business;•that under certain joint venture arrangements, neither joint venture partner may have the power to control the venture, and an impasse could be reached which might have a negative influence on our investment in the joint venture; and•our joint venture partners may decide to terminate their relationship with us in any joint venture company or sell their interest in any of these companies and we may be unable to replace such joint venture partner or raise the necessary financing to purchase such joint venture partner’s interest. During the fourth quarter of 2015, our Eagle Ford joint venture partner purported to accept our third quarterly offer under the Participation Agreement to purchase interests in 21 gross (10.3 net) wells for $42.7 million, subject to purchase price adjustments subsequent to the effective date of June 30, 2015. We notified our joint venture partner that we do not intend to close this acquisition and our joint venture partner filed a petition for injunctive relief and damages alleging that, among other things, we breached our obligation under the Participation Agreement. The court denied our joint venture partner’s motion for injunctive relief and their request to restrain us from disbursing proceeds from the production of the assets. We filed a counterclaim seeking a declaratory judgment that, among other things, we are not obligated to purchase the disputed wells as our partner's purported acceptance had not been received in a timely manner under the terms of the Participation Agreement. In addition, quarterly offers four and five are also now in dispute for various reasons. We cannot estimate or predict the outcome of the litigation with the our joint venture partner and we may not have sufficient funds or borrowing capacity under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement to complete any acquisitions pursuant to the Participation Agreement or pay any damages for failure to complete a purchase that a court may determine, including the wells related to the claim by our joint venture partner. In the event we fail to purchase a group of wells that we are required to make an offer on, there are remedies available to our joint venture partner which allow them to reject our future offers, terminate the Participation Agreement, remove EXCO as the operator or pursue other legal remedies.The failure to continue some of our joint ventures or to resolve disagreements with our joint venture partners, including the dispute subject to litigation with the KKR affiliates, could adversely affect our ability to transact the business that is the subject of such joint venture, including, with respect to the Participation Agreement, our ability to increase our assets in the Eagle Ford shale through acquisitions of KKR’s producing properties. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected.The owners of working interests may not consent to the development of certain properties that we operate which may require us to assume their share of the working interest during the development and a period after the well is on production. This may require us to expend additional capital not already anticipated as part of our development plans and assume additional risks associated with the development and future performance of the properties. The owners of working interests in certain properties that we operate may also hold rights within the respective operating agreements that could prevent us from performing additional development activities on the properties such as recompletions and other workovers without their consent.We may be unable to obtain additional financing to implement our growth strategy.The growth of our business requires substantial capital on a continuing basis. Due to the amount of debt we have incurred and factors related to the depressed commodity price environment, we anticipate that it will be difficult for us in the foreseeable future to obtain additional equity or debt financing or to obtain additional secured financing other than purchase money indebtedness. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms and conditions or at all, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and businesses and, therefore, be unable to implement our growth strategy.We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves, which would reduce our revenues and access to capital.35Our success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are profitable to produce. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire or develop additional oil and natural gas reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and the number and attractiveness of properties for sale. If we are unable to conduct successful development activities or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves, our total Proved Reserves will generally decline as a result of production. Also, our production will generally decline. In addition, if our reserves and production decline, then the amount we are able to borrow under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement will also decline. We may be unable to locate additional reserves, drill economically productive wells or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves. Acquisitions, development drilling and exploratory drilling are the main methods of replacing reserves. However, development and exploratory drilling operations may not result in any increases in reserves for various reasons. Our future oil and natural gas production depends on our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves. If we fail to replace reserves through drilling or acquisitions, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. The planned reduction in our development program in 2016 could negatively impact our ability to replace our reserves in the future. We may not identify all risks associated with the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, and any indemnification we receive from sellers may be insufficient to protect us from such risks, which may result in unexpected liabilities and costs to us.Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual property involved in an acquisition. Any future acquisitions will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards and liabilities, potential tax and liabilities under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, other liabilities and similar factors. Ordinarily, our review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties. Even a detailed review of properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems from acquisitions could result in material liabilities and costs that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnify us against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnification, the indemnification may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnification.We may not correctly evaluate reserve data or the exploitation potential of properties as we engage in our acquisition, exploration, development and exploitation activities. Our future success will depend on the success of our acquisition, exploration, development and exploitation activities. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit properties or prospects will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. These decisions could significantly reduce our ability to generate cash needed to service our debt and fund our capital program and other working capital requirements.We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of acquisitions with our operations and we may not realize all the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions.Integration of our acquisitions with our business and operations has been a complex, time consuming and costly process. Failure to successfully assimilate our past or future acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:•operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations;•difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired business, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area;•the risk that oil and natural gas reserves acquired may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated;•the loss of significant key employees from the acquired business;36•the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns;•the failure to realize expected profitability or growth;•the failure to realize expected synergies and cost savings;•coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; and•coordinating or consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly, and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. Our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves involve inherent uncertainty, which could materially affect the quantity and value of our reported reserves, our financial condition and the value of our common shares.Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of Proved Reserves, including many factors beyond our control. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our Proved Reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure of our Proved Reserves. These estimates are based upon reports of our independent petroleum engineers. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC as to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. These estimates should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated Proved Reserves.The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, the estimates are inherently imprecise evaluations of reserve quantities and future net revenue and such estimates prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times, may vary substantially.Our actual future production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from those we have assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of PV-10 and Standardized Measure described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our financial condition. In addition, our reserves, the amount of PV-10 and Standardized Measure may be revised downward or upward, based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices, decisions and assumptions made by engineers and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can adversely impact the estimated volumes and values of our reserves. Similarly, a decline in market prices for oil or natural gas may adversely affect our PV-10 and Standardized Measure. Any of these negative effects on our reserves or PV-10 and Standardized Measure may negatively affect the value of our common shares.We currently have negative shareholders’ equity, which could adversely affect our financial condition and otherwise adversely impact our business and growth prospects. We have recently experienced losses as a result of the recent decline in oil and natural gas prices, and, as of December 31, 2015, we had negative shareholders’ equity of $662.3 million, which means that our total liabilities exceeded our total assets. We may not be able to return to profitability in the near future, or at all, and the continuing existence of negative shareholders’ equity may limit our ability to obtain future debt or equity financing or to pay future dividends or other distributions. If we are unable to obtain financing in the future, it could have a negative effect on our operations and our liquidity.We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of:•fires, explosions and blowouts;•pipe failures;•abnormally pressured formations; and•environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination).37We have in the past experienced some of these events during our drilling, production and midstream operations. These events may result in substantial losses to us from:•injury or loss of life;•severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;•pollution or other environmental damage;•environmental clean-up responsibilities;•regulatory investigation;•penalties and suspension of operations; or•attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation.As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover these potential losses or liabilities. Furthermore, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at commercially acceptable premium levels or at all. Due to cost considerations, from time to time we have declined to obtain coverage for certain drilling activities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could require us to make large unbudgeted cash expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow.Our operations may be interrupted by severe weather or drilling restrictions.Our operations are conducted primarily in Texas, North Louisiana and Appalachia. The weather in these areas can be extreme and can cause interruption in our exploration and production operations. Severe weather can result in damage to our facilities entailing longer operational interruptions and significant capital investment. Likewise, our operations are subject to disruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, winter storms and severe cold, which can limit operations involving fluids and impair access to our facilities. Additionally, many municipalities in Appalachia impose weight restrictions on the paved roads that lead to our jobsites due to the conditions caused by spring thaws.We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations.Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to comply with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations.Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, production and sale of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation.The Obama administration’s budget proposals for fiscal year 2016 contain numerous proposed tax changes, and from time to time, legislation has been introduced that would enact many of these proposed changes. The proposed budget and legislation would repeal many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by U.S. oil and natural gas companies and impose new fees. Among others, the provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; repeal of the percentage depletion deduction for oil and gas properties; repeal of the domestic manufacturing tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies; increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers. The passage of legislation containing some or all of these provisions or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available to us with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to use net operating loss carryovers to reduce future tax payments may be limited.Our net operating loss and other tax attribute carryovers ("NOLs") may be limited if we undergo an ownership change. Generally, an ownership change occurs if certain persons or groups increase their aggregate ownership in us by more than 50 38percentage points looking back over a rolling three-year period. If an ownership change occurs, our ability to use our NOLs to reduce income taxes is limited to an annual amount, or the Section 382 limitation, equal to the fair market value of our common shares immediately prior to the ownership change multiplied by the long term tax-exempt interest rate, which is published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). In the event of an ownership change, NOLs can be used to offset taxable income for years within a carryforward period subject to the Section 382 limitation. Any excess NOLs that exceed the Section 382 limitation in any year will continue to be allowed as carryforwards for the remainder of the carryforward period. Whether or not an ownership change occurs, the carryforward period for NOLs is 20 years from the year in which the losses giving rise to the NOLs were incurred. If the carryforward period for any NOL were to expire before that NOL had been fully utilized, the unused portion of that NOL would be lost. Our use of new NOLs arising after the date of an ownership change would not be affected by the Section 382 limitation (unless there is another ownership change after the new NOLs arise).Our business exposes us to liability and extensive regulation on environmental matters, which could result in substantial expenditures.Our operations are subject to numerous complex U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of materials into the water and air, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. Laws, rules and regulations protecting the environment have changed frequently and the changes often include increasingly stringent requirements. In general, the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry has been the subject of increasing scrutiny and regulation by environmental authorities. For example, the EPA has identified environmental compliance by the energy extraction section as one of its enforcement initiatives for 2014-2016 (and has solicited comments on continuing this initiative for fiscal years 2017 - 2019). Further, in September of 2015, the EPA issued a compliance alert stating that it has concerns regarding significant emissions from storage vessels, such as tanks or containers, at onshore oil and natural gas production facilities.Compliance with environmental laws and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of cease and desist orders. Any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Changes to the requirements for drilling, completing, operating, and abandoning wells and related facilities could have similar adverse effects on us. In addition, we could incur substantial expenditures complying with environmental laws and regulations, including future environmental laws and regulations which may be more stringent than those currently in effect. For example, the regulation of GHG emissions by the EPA or by various states in the areas in which we conduct business could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for our oil and natural gas production. Moreover, the EPA has shown a general increased scrutiny on the oil and gas industry through its regulations under the CAA, SDWA, RCRA, TSCA and CWA. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may, among other things:•require us to apply for and receive a permit before drilling commences or certain associated facilities are developed; •restrict the types, quantities and concentrations of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, hydraulic fracturing, and production activities; •limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other “waters of the United States,” threatened and endangered species habitats and other protected areas; •require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells;•require additional control and monitoring devices on equipment; and•impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Our operations may be impacted by upcoming regulatory changes, including proposed effluent limitation guidelines established by the EPA which could limit our ability to dispose of waste water from hydraulic fracturing activities into wastewater treatment systems. The EPA and state regulators are also reviewing the practices for the disposal of solid waste in surface impoundments from exploration and production facilities under Subtitle D of RCRA and may continue to refine those requirements. The EPA and state regulators are also expanding National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permitting for storm water discharges at drilling sites. These actions may limit the options for disposal of hydraulic fracturing waste and increase costs associated with disposal.39In addition, on May 19, 2014, the EPA issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking comment on the types of chemical mixtures used in hydraulic fracturing fluid which might be reported under the TSCA. This may require more extensive reporting obligations for oil and gas exploration activities that use hydraulic fracturing.Moreover, as part of the Obama administration’s continued focus on climate change, the EPA has outlined a series of actions to encourage reduction in methane and VOC emissions from the oil and gas industry. To this end, the EPA has adopted rules subjecting oil and natural gas operations to regulation under the NSPS, NESHAPS and programs under the CAA; imposing new and amended requirements under these programs for the control of VOCs. Among other things, the rules amend standards applicable to natural gas processing plants and expand the NSPS to include all oil and natural gas operations, imposing requirements on those operations. The rule also imposes NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured natural gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion techniques. The NESHAPS also includes maximum achievable control technology standards for certain glycol dehydrators and storage vessels, and revises applicability provisions, alternative test protocols and the availability of the startup, shutdown and maintenance exemption. The implementation of these new requirements may result in increased operating and compliance costs, increased regulatory burdens and delays in our operations. There may also be further refinement to existing NSPS standards for VOCs as data is gathered about the implementation of those requirements.Additionally, the EPA recently proposed an NSPS aimed at methane emissions from oil and natural gas operations. Changes in regulation can also occur at a state or local level. For example, the State of Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection is updating oil and gas regulations which include more stringent permitting requirements, waste handling disposal and water restoration requirements. Some localities, for example in Texas, are enacting water usage restrictions that may impact oil and gas exploration. In addition, some states have considered, and notably California has adopted, a state specific GHG regulatory program that may limit GHG emissions or may require costs in association with the control of GHG emissions.The implementation of climate change regulations could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our oil and natural gas production.Although federal legislation regarding the control of emissions of GHGs for the present appears unlikely, the EPA has been implementing regulations under its existing CAA authority, and some of these regulations and proposed regulations may affect our operations. GHGs are certain gases, including carbon dioxide, a product of the combustion of natural gas, and methane, a primary component of natural gas, that may be contributing to the warming of the Earth’s atmosphere, resulting in climatic changes. These GHG regulations could require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for our oil and natural gas production.In the absence of comprehensive federal legislation on GHG emission control, the EPA attempted to require the permitting of GHG emissions. Although the U.S. Supreme Court struck down GHG permitting requirements for GHG as a stand-alone pollutant, it upheld the EPA’s authority to control GHG emissions when a source has to secure a major source permit to control the emissions of other criteria pollutants. The EPA established GHG reporting requirements for a broad range of sources, including in the petroleum and natural gas industry, requiring those sources to monitor, maintain records on, and annually report their GHG emissions. Although this rule does not limit the amount of GHGs that can be emitted, it requires us to incur costs to monitor record and report GHG emissions associated with our operations.The Obama administration has also implemented a series of executive branch actions as part of its Climate Action Plan, the goal of which is to reduce GHGs in order to address the effects of global climate change. The Climate Action Plan has three main components: (i) cut carbon pollution (this includes GHGs and methane); (ii) prepare the U.S. for the impacts of climate change and (iii) lead efforts to combat global climate change. Another component of the administration’s plan to cut carbon pollution is the development of an interagency strategy with the EPA, the DOI, the DOT, Department of Energy and Department of Labor to cut methane emissions. As part of this strategy, each federal agency is charged with promulgating new standards that may impact our operations by increasing costs and/or lowering demand for oil and natural gas.As part of the directive to cut carbon pollution in the Climate Action Plan, the EPA proposed rules that would establish new air emission controls for emissions of methane from certain equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities. The EPA’s proposed rule package includes first-time standards to address emissions of methane from equipment and processes across the source category, including hydraulically fractured oil and natural gas well completions, fugitive emissions from well sites and compressors, equipment leaks at natural gas processing plants, and pneumatic pumps. 40In addition, the rule would extend current VOC requirements established in 2012 to remaining unregulated equipment within the source category, such as hydraulically fractured oil well completions, fugitive emissions from well sites and compressor stations and pneumatic pumps. Another key component of the proposal is that it contemplates periodically monitoring methane emissions using imaging optical gas imaging instead of traditional observation methods. Concurrent with this proposal, the EPA published another proposal to clarify the term “adjacent” in the definitions of: “building, structure, facility or installation” used to determine the “stationary source” for purposes of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) and Nonattainment New Source Review (NNSR) programs and “major source” in the title V program as applied to the oil and natural gas sector. In this proposal, the EPA states that any oil and gas exploration facilities that have a common owner and that are “adjacent” to each other are a single source. The proposal offers two approaches for public comment on how “adjacent” should be defined. Although the EPA expresses a preference for defining “adjacency” in the oil and gas sector in terms of proximity, the EPA is also soliciting comment on an option to define “adjacency” in terms of “functional interrelatedness.” The grouping together of sources may cause a group of sources to be treated as a “major source” and face enhanced regulation under federal environmental laws, including the Clean Air Act. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Most hydraulic fracturing (other than hydraulic fracturing using diesel) is exempted from regulation under the SDWA. Congress has considered legislation to amend the federal SDWA to remove the exemption from regulation and permitting that is applicable to hydraulic fracturing operations and require reporting and disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Sponsors of bills previously introduced before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. Many states have adopted or are considering legislation regulating hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of chemicals used in the process. Such bills or similar legislation, if adopted, could increase the possibility of litigation and establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens, making it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increasing our costs of compliance. At the state and local levels, some jurisdictions have adopted, and others are considering adopting, requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities, as well as bans on hydraulic fracturing activities. In the event that new or more stringent state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we have properties, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells.In addition, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing using diesel under the SDWA’s Underground Injection Control Program (“UIC”). Further, in June of 2015, the EPA released a draft assessment of the potential impacts of oil and gas hydraulic fracturing activities on the quality and quantity of drinking water resources in the United States for public comment and peer review by the Science Advisory Board. The public comment process for this assessment will conclude on October 30, 2016. The findings in this report may result in additional regulation and permitting requirements for oil and gas exploration. These may include additional restrictions on the disposal options for waste water, storm water and other wastes generated from hydraulic fracturing activities.This draft assessment could result in additional regulatory scrutiny that could make it difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase our costs of compliance and doing business. Consequently, these studies and initiatives could spur further legislative or regulatory action regarding hydraulic fracturing or similar production operations.In addition, the EPA has issued guidance under the SDWA providing direction on how it will address the use of diesel in hydraulic fracturing activities and how its UIC program will be applied to such hydraulic fracturing activities. Moreover, the EPA has proposed new effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities. The EPA has also announced an initiative under the TSCA to develop regulations governing the disclosure and evaluation of hydraulic fracturing chemicals. If these new effluent limitations are enacted it may increase our cost of disposal and impact our business operations. If hydraulic fracturing is regulated at the federal level at private drilling sites like it is now regulated on federal and tribal land, our hydraulic fracturing activities could become subject to additional permit requirements or operations restrictions which could lead to permitting delays and potential increases in costs. Restrictions on hydraulic fracturing could reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we ultimately are able to produce. 41Competition in our industry is intense and we may be unable to compete in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and hiring experienced personnel.The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from other independent operators and from major oil companies in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have greater financial and technical resources and a larger headcount than we do. As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases, or to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources will permit. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant expense/cost increases. We may experience difficulties in obtaining drilling rigs and other services in certain areas as well as an increase in the cost for these services and related material and equipment. We are unable to predict when, or if, such shortages may again occur or how such shortages and price increases will affect our development and exploitation program. Competition has also been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in petroleum engineering, geoscience, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land professions. In addition, competition is strong for attractive oil and natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies, and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. We are often outbid by competitors in our attempts to acquire properties or companies. All of these challenges could make it more difficult to execute our growth strategy.Our use of derivative financial instruments is subject to risks that our counterparties may default on their contractual obligations to us and may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in us making cash payments. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into, and may in the future enter into, derivative financial instrument arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil and natural gas production over a fixed period of time. Our derivative financial instruments are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment. The change in the fair market value of these instruments is reported as a non-cash item in our consolidated statements of operations each quarter, which typically results in significant variability in our net income or loss. Derivative financial instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following:•market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments;•there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative financial instrument agreement and actual prices received; or•the counterparty to the derivative financial instrument contract may default on its contractual obligations to us. Our use of derivative financial instruments could have the effect of reducing our revenues and the value of our securities. During the year ended December 31, 2015 we received cash receipts from settlements on our derivative financial instrument contracts totaling $128.8 million and during the year ended December 31, 2014, we paid cash settlements of $19.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2015, a $1.00 increase in the average commodity price per Mcfe would have resulted in an increase in cash settlement payments (or a decrease in settlements received) of approximately $56.5 million for oil and natural gas swaps. As of December 31, 2015, our oil and natural gas derivative financial instrument contracts were in the net asset position of $45.6 million. The ultimate settlement amount of these unrealized derivative financial instrument contracts is dependent on future commodity prices. We may incur significant realized and unrealized losses in the future from our use of derivative financial instruments to the extent market prices increase and our derivatives contracts remain in place. We exist in a litigious environment. Any constituent could bring suit regarding our existing or planned operations or allege a violation of an existing contract. Any such action could delay when planned operations can actually commence or could cause a halt to existing production until such alleged violations are resolved by the courts. Not only could we incur significant legal and support expenses in defending our rights, but halting existing production or delaying planned operations could impact our future operations and financial condition. In addition, we are defendants in numerous cases involving claims by landowners for surface or subsurface damages arising from our operations and for claims by unleased mineral owners and royalty owners for unpaid or underpaid revenues customary in our business. We incur costs in defending these claims and from time to time must pay damages or other amounts due. Such legal disputes can also distract management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities.42On December 15, 2015, certain affiliates of KKR filed a petition for injunctive relief and damages alleging that, among other things, EOC, a wholly owned subsidiary of EXCO, breached its obligation under the Participation Agreement to purchase the Q3 Wells from the KKR affiliates. For additional information, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions.As an oil and natural gas production company, we face various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the safety of our employees; threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor these threats and mitigate our exposure to such threats, there can be no assurance that these procedures and controls will be sufficient in preventing security threats from materializing. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure, personnel or capabilities, essential to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are evolving and include but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. These events could damage our reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability.There are inherent limitations in all internal control over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.While we have taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our chief financial officer and chief accounting officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of our company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.We have engaged in transactions with related persons and may do so in the future. The terms of such transactions and the resolution of any conflicts that may arise may not always be in our or our shareholders’ best interests.We have engaged in transactions and may continue to engage in transactions with related persons. As described in our filings with the SEC, these transactions include, among others, issuances of securities to affiliates of certain of our directors, strategic consulting services provided to us by an affiliate of a director and the issuance of a term loan to us by an affiliate of a director. The resolution of any conflicts that may arise in connection with such related person transactions may not always be in our or our shareholders’ best interests because the affiliates of such related persons may have the ability to influence the outcome of these conflicts. Risks relating to our indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt.As of December 31, 2015 we had approximately $1.1 billion of aggregate principal indebtedness, including $67.5 million of indebtedness subject to variable interest rates. Our total interest expense, excluding amortization of deferred financing costs, on an annual basis based on currently available interest rates would be approximately $70.5 million and would change by approximately $0.7 million for every 1% change in interest rates. Our total interest expense, as determined in accordance with GAAP, excludes the annual cash payments of $50.0 million on the Exchange Term Loan. See "Note 5. Debt" 43in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information and the accounting treatment of the Exchange Term Loan. Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following:•it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt agreements, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement, Second Lien Term Loans, the indenture governing the 2018 Notes and 2022 Notes ("Indenture"), and the agreements governing our other indebtedness;•we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future for acquisitions (including any acquisition of interests in wells pursuant to the Participation Agreement with KKR), capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations;•the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;•we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities;•we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage;•we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices;•when oil and natural gas prices decline, our ability to maintain compliance with our financial covenants becomes more difficult and our borrowing base is subject to reductions, which may reduce or eliminate our ability to fund our operations; and•our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will be unable to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. The current low commodity price environment has had a significant, adverse impact on our business, including substantially reduced cash flows from operations due the decline in oil and natural gas prices and the roll off of our hedging arrangements. While we are not in default under our existing debt instruments, our ability to service our debt, including the 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes and Second Lien Term Loans, and fund our operations is at risk in a sustained continuation of the current commodity price environment. If the current low commodity price environment continues, we would need some additional form of debt restructuring, capital raising or asset sale in order to fund our operations and meet our substantial debt service obligations. Our management is actively pursuing additional strategies to improve our liquidity and reduce our future debt service obligations. If we are unable to restructure our outstanding debt, obtain additional debt or equity financing, or raise adequate proceeds from sales of assets, we may not be able to make payments on our indebtedness, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings, and we may find it necessary to file a voluntary petition for reorganization relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in order to provide us with additional time to identify an appropriate solution to our financial situation and implement a plan of reorganization aimed at improving our capital structure. Further, failing to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement, the Indenture or the term loan agreements governing the Second Lien Term Loans could result in an event of default under such agreement, and any event of default may cause a default or accelerate our obligations with respect to our other outstanding indebtedness. A default or acceleration of our indebtedness would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may incur substantially more debt, which may intensify the risks described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. Together with our subsidiaries, we may incur substantially more debt in the future in connection with our exploration, exploitation, development, acquisitions of undeveloped acreage and producing properties. The restrictions in our debt agreements on our incurrence of additional indebtedness are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness, the risks described above could substantially increase. Significant additions of undeveloped acreage financed with debt may result in increased indebtedness without any corresponding increase in borrowing base, which could curtail drilling and development of this acreage or could cause us to not comply with our debt covenants.44To service our indebtedness, fund our planned capital expenditure programs and fund acquisitions, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash flow from operations and other resources in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas.Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness to fund planned capital expenditures or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations and capital expenditure programs, we may be forced to sell assets, issue additional equity or debt securities or restructure our debt. These remedies may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity.Our borrowing base under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement is subject to semi-annual redetermination, with the next scheduled redetermination set to occur in March 2016. The borrowing base redetermination process considers assumptions related to future commodity prices; therefore, our borrowing capacity could be negatively impacted by further declines in oil and natural gas prices. If our borrowing base were to be reduced to a level which was less than the current borrowings, we would be required to reduce our borrowings to a level sufficient to cure any deficiency. We may be required to sell assets or seek alternative debt or equity which may not be available at commercially reasonable terms, if at all.In addition, we conduct certain of our operations through our joint ventures and subsidiaries. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes and the Second Lien Term Loans, is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our joint ventures and subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of the 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes, Second Lien Term Loans or our other indebtedness, our joint ventures and subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the 2018 Notes and 2022 Notes, Second Lien Term Loans or our other indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our joint ventures and subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each joint venture and subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our joint ventures and subsidiaries. While the Indenture, the term loan agreements governing the Second Lien Term Loans and the agreements governing certain of our other existing indebtedness limit the ability of certain of our joint ventures and subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our joint ventures and subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness.If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes and the Second Lien Term Loans could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests.The EXCO Resources Credit Agreement, the Indenture and the Second Lien Term Loans contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:•dispose of assets;•incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred shares;•pay dividends on our capital stock;•create liens on our assets;•enter into sale or leaseback transactions;45•enter into specified investments or acquisitions;•repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt;•merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries;•engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or•pursue other corporate activities.Also, the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these financial covenants. These financial covenants could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement, the Indenture and the term loan agreements governing the Second Lien Term Loans. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. When oil and/or natural gas prices decline for an extended period of time, our ability to comply with these covenants becomes more difficult. Although we are currently in compliance with these covenants, if oil and gas prices continue to decline, we may default on one or more of these covenants. Such a default, if not cured or waived, may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and could result in acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. An event of default under the Indenture or the term loan agreements governing the Second Lien Term Loans would permit the lenders under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under the agreement. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event that our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be:•limited in how we conduct our business;•unable to raise additional debt or equity financing during general economic, business or industry downturns; or•unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.The term loan agreements governing the Second Lien Term Loans contain restrictive covenants that substantially limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, which may limit our future sources of financing and our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations. The term loan agreements governing the Second Lien Term Loans contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, substantially limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. See further details on these covenants in "Note 5. Debt" in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. These restrictive covenants may materially impact our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs or obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. As a result, we may be unable to obtain funding for, among other things, future acquisitions, operating activities, capital expenditures or debt service requirements, which would have a material impact on our business and financial condition. As a result of the Fairfax Term Loan, there may be an actual or apparent conflict of interest between Hamblin Watsa and a member of our Board of Directors. Hamblin Watsa Investment Counsel Ltd. ("Hamblin Watsa"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Fairfax, is the administrative agent of the Fairfax Term Loan. Samuel A. Mitchell, a member of our Board of Directors, is a Managing Director of Hamblin Watsa and a member of Hamblin Watsa’s investment committee, which consists of seven members that manage the investment portfolio of Fairfax. Additionally, based on filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Fairfax is the beneficial owner of approximately 9.0% of our outstanding common shares.As a result, there may be an actual or apparent conflict of interest between Mr. Mitchell’s duties to our company and Mr. Mitchell’s duties to Hamblin Watsa, including, among other things, with respect to the fairness of the terms of the Fairfax Term Loan to EXCO. In accordance with the charter of the audit committee of our Board of Directors, our audit committee reviewed and pre-approved the terms of the Fairfax Term Loan as a potential related party transaction, and our Board of Directors determined that the terms of the Fairfax Term Loan were no less favorable to EXCO or our subsidiaries than those that could be obtained in arm’s length dealings with non-affiliates, and, in the good faith judgment of our Board of Directors, no comparable transaction was available with which to compare the Fairfax Term Loan and the Fairfax Term Loan was fair, from a financial point of view, to EXCO.46Despite the approval of the terms of the Fairfax Term Loan, there can be no assurance that any actual or potential conflicts of interest between Mr. Mitchell’s duties to EXCO and Mr. Mitchell’s duties to Hamblin Watsa will be resolved in a manner that does not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, any actual or perceived conflict of interest may have a negative impact the value of our common shares.We may not be able to repurchase or repay our indebtedness upon a change of control.If we experience certain kinds of changes of control, we may be required to offer to repurchase or repay all or a portion of our existing indebtedness, including the 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes and the Second Lien Term Loans. We may not be able to repurchase or repay our indebtedness following a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources or sufficient access to financing. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.Each of our 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes and Second Lien Term Loans currently has a non-investment grade rating, and any rating assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in the credit ratings of our 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes or Second Lien Term Loans will generally affect the market value of such debt. We have been informed by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services and Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. that our 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes and Second Lien Term Loans have been placed on a watch list for future downgrading. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing and may increase the cost of debt financing. In addition, if any credit rating initially assigned to the 2018 Notes, 2022 Notes or Second Lien Term Loans is subsequently lowered or withdrawn for any reason, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of such notes.The credit risk of financial institutions could adversely affect us.We have exposure to different counterparties, and we have entered into transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks, insurance companies and other institutions. These transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. Deterioration in the credit markets may impact the credit ratings of our current and potential counterparties and affect their ability to fulfill their existing obligations to us and their willingness to enter into future transactions with us. We have exposure to financial institutions in the form of derivative transactions in connection with our hedges and insurance companies in the form of claims under our policies. In addition, if any lender under the EXCO Resources Credit Agreement is unable to fund its commitment, our liquidity will be reduced by an amount up to the aggregate amount of such lender’s commitment under the credit agreement.Risks Relating to Our Common SharesOur common share price may fluctuate significantly.Our common shares trade on the NYSE but an active trading market for our common shares may not be sustained. The market price of our common shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of:•announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors;•changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of public market analysis;•actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results;•conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry;•the success of our operating strategy; and•the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common shares. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations.47If we fail to comply with the continued listing standards of the NYSE, it may result in a delisting of our common shares from the NYSE.Our common shares are currently and have been listed for trading on the NYSE, and the continued listing of our common shares on the NYSE is subject to our compliance with a number of listing standards. To maintain compliance with these continued listing standards, the Company is required to maintain an average closing price of $1.00 or more over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. On July 30, 2015, we received a notice from the NYSE that the average closing price of our common shares over the prior 30 consecutive trading days was below $1.00 per share, and, as a result, the price per share of the common shares was below the minimum average closing price required to maintain listing on the NYSE. The notice stated that we had six months to regain compliance with the NYSE continued listing standards, or until January 30, 2016, or the NYSE would initiate procedures to suspend and delist the common shares. On November 2, 2015, we received a notice from the NYSE stating that we had regained compliance with the NYSE continued listing standards because the price of our common shares on October 30, 2015 and the average price of our common shares over the thirty trading days prior to October 30, 2015 exceeded $1.00 per share. On February 26, 2016 we received a second notice from the NYSE of our noncompliance with the continued listing standard. We intend to notify the NYSE of our intent to cure this noncompliance and are currently exploring options for regaining compliance, including a potential reverse share split of our common shares.The price of our common shares is volatile and may fail to comply with the NYSE’s minimum average closing price requirement in the future. If so, we may effect a reverse share split to regain compliance with NYSE listing standards. At a Special Meeting of Shareholders held on November 16, 2015, our shareholders authorized our Board of Directors to effect a reverse share split at a ratio of up to 1-for-10 common shares. The decision to effect a reverse share split and the exact ratio of the reverse share split will be made by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion. If we effect a reverse share split, the common shares will be deemed to be in compliance with NYSE standards if, promptly after the reverse share split, the price per common share exceeds $1.00 per share and remains above that level for at least the following 30 trading days.Our amended and restated certificate of formation permits us to issue preferred shares that may restrict a takeover attempt that you may favor.Our amended and restated certificate of formation permits our board to issue up to 10,000,000 preferred shares and to establish by resolution one or more series of preferred shares and the powers, designations, preferences and participating, optional or other special rights of each series of preferred shares. The preferred shares may be issued on terms that are unfavorable to the holders of our common shares, including the grant of superior voting rights, the grant of preferences in favor of preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and the designation of conversion rights that entitle holders of our preferred shares to convert their shares into common shares on terms that are dilutive to holders of our common shares. The issuance of preferred shares in future offerings may make a takeover or change in control of us more difficult.Holders of our common shares may experience future dilution.We may in the future issue additional common shares or other securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common shares at prices that may not be the same price as holders of our common shares paid for their shares. We are currently authorized to issue up to 780,000,000 common shares and 10,000,000 preferred shares with such designations, preferences and rights as determined by our Board of Directors. We have an effective shelf registration statement from which additional common shares and other securities can be offered. The issuance of additional common shares may substantially dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Furthermore, sales of a substantial amount of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could reduce the market price of our common shares. This could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our securities.Our amended and restated certificate of formation contains a provision waiving the duty of a member of our Board of Directors to present corporate opportunities to us, which could adversely affect our shareholders.Pursuant to our services and investment agreement with ESAS, we recently amended and restated our certificate of formation to provide that, C. John Wilder, a member of our Board of Directors, is not required to present corporate opportunities to us. As a result of the waiver, Mr. Wilder and certain of his affiliates have the ability to engage in the same or similar lines of business as us and will not be obligated to, among other things, offer us an opportunity to participate in any business opportunities that involve any aspect of the energy business or industry that are presented or become known to Mr. Wilder and certain of his affiliates. These potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by Mr. Wilder to himself or his affiliates instead of to us.48ESAS, Fairfax, Oaktree Capital Management, WL Ross & Co. LLC and/or their respective affiliates have significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval because of their ownership of our common shares.As of December 31, 2015, ESAS, Fairfax, Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. (“Oaktree”), and WL Ross & Co. LLC (“WL Ross”), directly or through certain affiliates, beneficially owned approximately 6.5%, 9.0%, 16.0% and 18.1%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. In addition, ESAS owned warrants representing the right to purchase 80,000,000 of our common shares, which, if fully exercised, would increase ESAS’ beneficial ownership of our outstanding common shares. Although these warrants are currently subject to exercise limitations, they may become exercisable in the future if our common shares achieve certain performance metrics compared to a peer group as of March 31, 2019. The beneficial ownership of ESAS, Fairfax, Oaktree and WL Ross and/or their affiliates provides them with significant influence regarding matters submitted for shareholder approval, including proposals regarding: •any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets;•the election of members of our Board of Directors; and•any amendment to our articles of incorporation.The current or increased ownership position of ESAS, Fairfax, Oaktree, WL Ross and/or their respective affiliates could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or adversely affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common shares. The interests of ESAS, Fairfax, Oaktree, WL Ross, and/or their respective affiliates may significantly differ from the interests of our other shareholders and they may vote the common shares they beneficially own in ways with which our other shareholders disagree.Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 