ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks identified in “Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks relating to our business Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, which have been volatile at times, may adversely affect our revenues as well as our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness and obtain additional capital on attractive terms. Our future financial condition, access to capital, cash flow and results of operations depend upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas. We are particularly dependent on prices for natural gas. As of December 31, 2008, 93.6% of our Proved Reserves were natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Factors that affect the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas include: • the level of domestic production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • political and economic conditions and events in foreign oil and natural gas producing nations, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the cost and availability of transportation and pipeline systems with adequate capacity; • the cost and availability of other competitive fuels; • fluctuating and seasonal demand for oil, natural gas and refined products; • concerns about global warming or other conservation initiatives and the extent of governmental price controls and regulation of production; • weather; • foreign and domestic government relations; and • overall economic conditions, particularly the recent worldwide economic slowdown which has put downward pressure on oil and natural gas prices and demand. In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During 2008, the NYMEX price for natural gas has fluctuated from a high of $13.58 per Mmbtu to a low of $5.29 per Mmbtu, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil price ranged from a high of $145.29 per barrel to a low of $33.87 per barrel. For the five years ended December 31, 2008, the NYMEX 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $15.38 per Mmbtu to a low of $4.20 per Mmbtu, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil price ranged from a high of $145.29 per barrel to a low of $32.48 per barrel. On December 31, 2008, the spot market price for natural gas at Henry Hub was $5.71 per Mmbtu, a 16.0% decrease from December 31, 2007. On December 31, 2008, the spot market price for crude oil at Cushing was $44.60 per barrel, a 53.5% decrease from December 31, 2007. In 2008, our average realized prices (before the impact of derivative financial instruments) for oil and natural gas were $96.93 per Bbl and $9.06 per Mcf compared with 2007 average realized prices of $71.17 per Bbl and $6.81 per Mcf, respectively. Our revenues, cash flow and profitability and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. Changes in the differential between NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price used to price our actual oil and natural gas sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The reference or regional index prices that we use to price our oil and natural gas sales sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a differential. We cannot accurately predict oil and natural gas differentials. Changes in differentials between the benchmark price for oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price we reference in our sales contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. During 2008, the volatility of differentials, particularly in the Mid-Continent and Permian market regions fluctuated dramatically when compared to prior years. There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact the results of our operations. Our drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs. We must incur significant expenditures to identify and acquire properties and to drill and complete wells. Additionally, seismic technology does not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or economically producible. The costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. We have experienced some delays in contracting for drilling rigs and increasing costs to drill wells. All of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Part of our strategy involves drilling in new or emerging shale resource plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are subject to more uncertainties than our drilling program in the more established shallower formations and may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. The results of our drilling in new or emerging shale resource plays, such as the Haynesville/Bossier shale and the Marcellus shale, are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and have established production. Since new or emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. In addition, part of our drilling strategy to maximize recoveries from the shale resource plays involves the drilling of horizontal wells using completion techniques that have proven to be successful in other shale formations. Our experience with horizontal drilling of the Haynesville/Bossier shale and the Marcellus shale to date, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history in these formations, is limited. To the extent we are unable to execute our expected drilling program in these areas because of capital constraints, lease expirations, regulatory and permitting delays, inadequate drilling or completion techniques, lack of access to adequate gathering systems or pipeline take-away capacity, or unavailability of drilling rigs and other services, the return on our investment in these areas may not be as attractive as we anticipate and our common stock price may decrease. We could incur material write-downs of unevaluated properties, and the value of our undeveloped acreage could decline in the future if our drilling results are unsuccessful. This is especially true in the Marcellus shale, where our shale 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements acreage is principally located in Pennsylvania. Lack of experienced oil field personnel, service providers and natural gas gathering and pipeline infrastructure, as well as significant regulatory and permitting delays would impact our ability to exploit this play for at least the near term. Our use of derivative financial instruments is subject to risks that our counterparties may default on their contractual obligations to us and may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in our making cash payments. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter into derivative financial instrument arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil and natural gas production over a fixed period of time. Our derivative financial instruments are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment. The change in the fair market value of these instruments is reported as a non-cash item in our statement of operations each quarter, which typically result in significant variability in our net income. Derivative financial instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following: • the counterparty to the derivative financial instrument contract may default on its contractual obligations to us; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative financial instrument agreement and actual prices received; or • market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments. Our use of derivative financial instruments could have the effect of reducing our revenues and the value of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we made cash payments to settle our derivative financial instrument contracts totaling $109.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2007, we received cash settlements from our derivative financial instrument contracts totaling $108.4 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, a $1.00 increase in the average commodity price per Mcfe would have resulted in an increase in cash settlement payments (or a decrease in settlements received) of approximately $115.3 million. As of December 31, 2008, the net unrealized gains on our oil and natural gas derivative financial instrument contracts was $493.7 million. The ultimate settlement amount of these unrealized derivative financial instrument contracts is dependent on future commodity prices. In connection with the acquisition of our East Texas and North Louisiana oil and natural gas properties and midstream assets of Winchester Acquisition, Inc. on October 2, 2006, or the Winchester Acquisition, our acquisition of TXOK Acquisition, Inc., or TXOK, on February 14, 2006, or the TXOK Acquisition, the Vernon Acquisition and the Southern Gas Acquisition, we assumed additional derivative financial instruments covering a significant portion of estimated future production. We may incur significant unrealized losses in the future from our use of derivative financial instruments to the extent market prices increase and our derivatives contracts remain in place. See “—Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Our results of operations—Derivative financial instruments.” We incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to fund our acquisitions, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. In connection with our oil, natural gas and midstream acquisitions and 2008 leasing activities, we have increased our consolidated indebtedness from $2.1 billion at December 31, 2006 to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2008. To service this indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our operating cash flow and other capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements at all. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt under our credit facilities, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves, which would reduce our revenues and access to capital. Our success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are profitable to produce. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and the number and attractiveness of properties for sale. If we are unable to conduct successful development activities or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves, our total Proved Reserves will generally decline as a result of production. Also, our production will generally decline. In addition, if our reserves and production decline, then the amount we are able to borrow under our credit agreements will also decline. We may be unable to locate additional reserves, drill economically productive wells or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves. We may not identify all risks associated with the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, and any indemnifications we receive from sellers may be insufficient to protect us from such risks, which may result in unexpected liabilities and costs to us. Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual property involved in an acquisition. Our business strategy focuses on acquisitions of producing oil and natural gas properties. Any future acquisitions will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and Employee Retirement Security Act, or ERISA, liabilities, and other liabilities and other similar factors. Ordinarily, our review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties. For example, in the Winchester Acquisition, the Vernon Acquisition, the Southern Gas Acquisition and the Appalachian Acquisition, we did not review title or production data for, or physically inspect, every well we acquired. Even a detailed review of properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. The indemnifications we received in the Winchester Acquisition, the Vernon Acquisition, the Southern Gas Acquisition and the Appalachian Acquisition are subject to floors, caps and time limitations and do not cover all these types of risks. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to implement our growth strategy. The growth of our business will require substantial capital on a continuing basis. Due to the amount of debt we have incurred, it may be difficult for us in the foreseeable future to obtain additional debt financing on an unsecured basis or to obtain additional secured financing other than purchase money indebtedness. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and businesses and, therefore, be unable to implement our growth strategy. We may not be successful in managing our growth, which could adversely affect our operations and net revenues. The pursuit of additional acquisitions is part of our strategy. We face challenges in growing our managerial, financial, accounting, technical, operational and administrative resources to keep up with the pace of the growth of our business and our significant corporate transactions such as the Winchester Acquisition, the Vernon 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Acquisition, the Southern Gas Acquisition and the Appalachian Acquisition. For example, our rapid growth and significant transactions over the past two years have strained, and could continue to strain, our financial, tax and accounting staff. The size and scope of our business from an operational, personnel, financial reporting and accounting perspective have substantially increased due to the Winchester Acquisition, the Vernon Acquisition, the Southern Gas Acquisition and the Appalachian Acquisition. Our growth could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards as well as internal controls and procedures. Failure to manage our growth successfully could adversely affect our operations and net revenues through increased operating costs and revenues that do not meet our expectations, as well as adversely affect our ability to satisfy our disclosure and other obligations. We may also be unable to successfully integrate acquired oil and natural gas properties into our operations or achieve desired profitability. If we are unable to successfully prevent or address material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or any other control deficiencies, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis and to comply with disclosure and other requirements may be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies subject to the act to disclose any material weaknesses discovered through management’s assessments. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Prior to December 31, 2007, we were not required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. In addition, prior to the quarter ended September 30, 2006, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective due to a material weakness relating to accounting for income taxes. Although we remediated this material weakness, we may identify additional material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these and other processes, procedures and controls and will make any further changes management determines appropriate, including to effect compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to comply with SEC reporting requirements and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listing standards or cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements, which could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, as well as subject us to civil or criminal investigations and penalties. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we have taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of our company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We may encounter obstacles to marketing our oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our revenues. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production will depend upon the availability and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and other transportation facilities. We are primarily dependent upon third parties to transport our products. Transportation space on the gathering systems and pipelines we utilize is occasionally limited or unavailable due to repairs, outages caused by accidents or other events, or improvements to facilities or due to space being utilized by other companies that have priority transportation agreements. We experienced production curtailments in the Appalachian Basin during 2006, 2007 and 2008 resulting from capacity restraints and short term shutdowns of certain pipelines for maintenance purposes. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of markets are beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas, the value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends on our company stock. We may not correctly evaluate reserve data or the exploitation potential of properties as we engage in our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our future success will depend on the success of our acquisition, development, and exploitation activities. Our decisions to purchase, develop or otherwise exploit properties or prospects will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations. Our estimates regarding the increase in our reserves and production resulting from the Winchester Acquisition, the Vernon Acquisition, the Southern Gas Acquisition, the Appalachian Acquisition and the Danville Acquisition may prove to be incorrect, which could significantly reduce our ability to generate cash needed to service our debt and fund our capital program and other working capital requirements. We cannot control the development of the properties we own but do not operate, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, third parties operate wells that represent approximately 4.8% of our Proved Reserves. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on those properties depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the operators’ expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • the selection of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves involve inherent uncertainty, which could materially affect the quantity and value of our reported reserves and our financial condition. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves, including many factors beyond our control. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon reports of our independent petroleum engineers. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC as to constant oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. These estimates should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated Proved Reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, the estimates are inherently imprecise evaluations of reserve quantities and future net revenue. Our actual future production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from those we have assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of PV-10 and Standardized Measure described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our financial condition. In addition, our reserves or PV-10 and Standardized Measure may be revised downward or upward, based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can adversely impact the estimated volumes of our reserves. Similarly, a decline in market prices for oil or natural gas may adversely affect our PV-10 and Standardized Measure. Any of these negative effects on our reserves or PV-10 and Standardized Measure may decrease the value of our common stock. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of: • fires, explosions and blowouts; • pipe failures; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental accidents such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination). We have in the past experienced some of these events during our drilling operations. These events may result in substantial losses to us from: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution or other environmental damage; • environmental clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation; • penalties and suspension of operations; or • attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover these potential losses or liabilities. Furthermore, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at commercially acceptable premium levels or at all. Due to cost considerations, from time to time we have declined to obtain coverage for certain drilling activities and have therefore been restricted from conducting these types of drilling activities during the period we were uninsured. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could require us to make large unbudgeted cash expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to comply with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, production and sale of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Item 1. Business—Applicable laws and regulations” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Our business exposes us to liability and extensive regulation on environmental matters, which could result in substantial expenditures. Our operations are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of materials into the water and air, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. We could incur material costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own activities, but may also expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for actions by us that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, we could incur substantial expenditures complying with environmental laws and regulations, including future environmental laws and regulations which may be more stringent. For example, studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases,” may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of the burning of natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. The U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, various states have developed initiatives to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. The EPA is separately considering whether it will regulate greenhouse gases as “air pollutants” under the Clean Air Act. Passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various states in the United States or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that regulate or restrict emissions of greenhouse gases including methane or carbon dioxide in areas in which we conduct business could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Our business substantially depends on Douglas H. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer. We are substantially dependent upon the skills of Mr. Douglas H. Miller. Mr. Miller has extensive experience in acquiring, financing and restructuring oil and natural gas companies. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Miller or maintain key man insurance. The loss of the services of Mr. Miller could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We may have write-downs of our asset values, which could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and natural gas properties. Depending upon oil and natural gas prices in the future, and at the end of each quarterly and annual period when we are required to test the carrying value of our assets using full cost accounting rules, we may be required to write-down the value of our oil and natural gas properties if the present value of the after-tax future cash flows from our oil and natural 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements gas properties falls below the net book value of these properties. We have in the past, including the third and fourth quarters of 2008, experienced ceiling test write-downs with respect to our oil and natural gas properties. Future non-cash ceiling test write-downs could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth. We also test goodwill for impairment annually or when circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. If the book value of our reporting units exceeds the estimated fair value of those reporting units, an impairment charge will occur, which would negatively impact our net worth. We may experience a financial loss if any of our significant customers fail to pay us for our oil or natural gas. Our ability to collect the proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas from our customers depends on the payment ability of our customer base, which includes several significant customers. If any one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us for any reason, we could experience a material loss. In addition, in recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our oil and natural gas production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced market liquidity and, in some cases, has made it difficult for us to identify creditworthy customers. We also sell a portion of our natural gas directly to end users. We may experience a material loss as a result of the failure of our customers to pay us for prior purchases of our oil or natural gas. We may experience a decline in revenues if we lose one of our significant customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, sales to a natural gas marketing company, Crosstex Gulf Coast Marketing, and to a regulated natural gas utility company, Atmos Energy Marketing L.L.C. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 12.0% and 11.2%, respectively, of total consolidated revenues. The loss of any significant customer may cause a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas. Competition in our industry is intense and we may be unable to compete in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and hiring experienced personnel. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from other independent operators and from major oil companies in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources and headcount substantially larger than ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases, or to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources will permit. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. We may experience difficulties in obtaining drilling rigs and other services in certain areas as well as an increase in the cost for these services and related material and equipment. We are unable to predict when, or if, such shortages may again occur or how such shortages and price increases will affect our development and exploitation program. Competition has also been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in petroleum engineering, geoscience, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land professions. In addition, competition is strong for attractive oil and natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies, and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. We are often outbid by competitors in our attempts to acquire properties or companies. All of these challenges could make it more difficult to execute our growth strategy and increase our costs. The success of our natural gas gathering and transportation business depends upon our ability to continually obtain new sources of natural gas supply, and any decrease in supplies of natural gas could reduce our transportation revenues. Our gathering and transportation pipelines are connected to natural gas reserves and wells, for which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our pipelines, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. We may not be able to obtain additional third party contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transportation pipelines include: (i) the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems and (ii) our ability to compete for the commitment of such additional volumes to our systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil and natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations other than our own drilling, the amount of reserves underlying the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over third party producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. We face strong competition in acquiring new natural gas supplies. Competitors to our pipeline operations include major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and other natural gas gatherers. Competition for natural gas supplies is primarily based on the location of pipeline facilities, pricing arrangements, reputation, efficiency, flexibility and reliability. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we do. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our gathering and transportation pipelines because of decreased drilling activity in the areas in which we operate or because of an inability to connect new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transportation pipelines, then our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. If third-party pipelines or other facilities interconnected to our gathering and transportation pipelines become unavailable to transport or process natural gas, our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options from our transportation and gathering pipelines for the benefit of our customers. All of the natural gas transported by our pipelines must be processed by processing plants before delivery into a pipeline for natural gas. We own only one processing plant that treats certain natural gas products. If the processing plants to which we deliver natural gas were to become temporarily or permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to pipelines, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity or other causes, our customers would be unable to deliver natural gas to end markets. Either of such events could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not own all of the land on which our transportation pipelines and gathering systems are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our transportation and gathering pipelines and gathering systems have been constructed, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. We obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks relating to our indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $3.0 billion of indebtedness, including $2.6 billion of indebtedness which is subject to variable interest rates. Our total interest expense, excluding amortization of deferred financing costs, on an annual basis is approximately $109.3 million and would change by approximately $25.7 million for every 1% change in interest rates. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt agreements, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture with Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, or the Indenture, governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; • we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; • the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; • we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices; and • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will be unable to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. For instance, the New Term Credit Agreement matures and becomes payable on January 15, 2010. We believe that based on EXCO Operating’s current production levels and prices for oil and natural gas, our cash flows from operations and remaining borrowing capacity under our credit agreement, may not be sufficient to fully repay the New Term Credit Agreement when due without further reductions in our capital expenditure levels or non-strategic asset sales. If we do not have enough money to service our debt, we may be required but unable to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, failing to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes could result in an event of default, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantially more debt, which may intensify the risks described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. Together with our subsidiaries, we may incur substantially more debt in the future in connection with our acquisition, development, exploitation and exploration of oil and natural gas producing properties. The restrictions in our debt agreements on our incurrence of additional indebtedness are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our senior notes and loans under our credit agreements, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements from operations and other resources in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our senior notes and loans under our credit agreements, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit agreements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends on our capital stock; • create liens on our assets; • enter into sale or leaseback transactions; • enter into specified investments or acquisitions; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or • pursue other corporate activities. Also, our credit agreements require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit arrangements. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit arrangements. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The global financial and credit crisis and any associated prolonged decline in the price of oil and natural gas similar to the conditions that existed in the third quarter of 2008 and thereafter will likely limit our access to liquidity and credit and curtail our ability to fund our planned exploration, development, and production activity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. Significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk and the current weak economic conditions have made it difficult, and will likely continue to make financing difficult. As a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates and enacted tighter lending standards. As a result of the current credit environment, we may be unable to obtain adequate funding under our existing credit agreements because (i) our lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) our borrowing bases under our existing credit agreements, which are redetermined at least twice a year, may decrease as a result of lower oil or natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves, lending requirements or regulations, or for any other reason. If any borrowing base is decreased below the amount of borrowings outstanding, we may be required, and possibly unable, to repay an amount of borrowing within a six month cure period such that our outstanding borrowings do not exceed the new borrowing base. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets could lead to an extended national or global economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession would likely reduce national and worldwide demand for energy and result in lower oil and natural gas prices. Our revenues, cash flow and profitability and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. Prolonged decline in the price of oil and natural gas similar to the conditions that existed in the third quarter of 2008 and thereafter will likely limit our access to liquidity and credit and curtail our ability to fund our planned exploration, development, and production activity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our common stock Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on February 9, 2006. An active trading market may not be sustained. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of public market analysis; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry; • the success of our operating strategy; and • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2008, we had 210,968,931 shares of common stock outstanding. All shares are freely tradable by persons other than our affiliates. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. The equity trading markets may be volatile, which could result in losses for our shareholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Our articles of incorporation permit us to issue preferred stock that may restrict a takeover attempt that you may favor. Our articles of incorporation permit our board to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to establish by resolution one or more series of preferred stock and the powers, designations, preferences and participating, optional or other special rights of each series of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued on terms that are unfavorable to the holders of our common stock, including the grant of superior voting rights, the grant of preferences in favor of preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and the designation of conversion rights that entitle holders of our preferred stock to convert their shares into our common stock on terms that are dilutive to holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock in future offerings may make a takeover or change in control of us more difficult. In 2007, we issued 200,000 shares of preferred stock for proceeds of $2.0 billion to institutional accredited investors in a private placement under the Securities Act of 1933 and during 2008 we converted all outstanding shares of our Preferred Stock into a total of approximately 105.2 million shares of our common stock. See “Item 1. Business—Significant acquisitions and financing activities during 2008—2008 financing activities—Preferred Stock conversion.” We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past, and any return on investment has historically been limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. In addition, our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes restrict our ability to pay dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 