Item 1A. Risk factors” for a discussion of certain risks of our business and an investment in our common stock. Our revenues, operating results, financial condition and ability to borrow funds or obtain additional capital depend substantially on prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. Declines in oil or natural gas prices may materially adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and operating results. Lower oil or natural gas prices may also reduce the amount of oil or natural gas that we can produce economically. A decline in oil and/or natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the estimated value and estimated quantities of our oil and natural gas reserves, our ability to fund our operations and our financial condition, cash flow, results of operations and access to capital. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, with prices fluctuating widely, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Glossary of selected oil and natural gas terms The following are abbreviations and definitions of terms commonly used in the oil and natural gas industry and this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2-D seismic. Geophysical data that depict the subsurface strata in two dimensions 3-D seismic. Geophysical data that depict the subsurface strata in three dimensions. 3-D seismic typically provides a more detailed and accurate interpretation of the subsurface strata than 2-D, or two-dimensional, seismic. Bbl. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used in reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. Bcf. One billion cubic feet of natural gas. Bcfe. One billion cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Btu. British thermal unit, which is the heat required to raise the temperature of a one pound mass of water from 58.5 to 59.5 degrees Fahrenheit. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Commercial Well; Commercially Productive Well. An oil and natural gas well which produces oil and natural gas in sufficient quantities such that proceeds from the sale of such production exceed production expenses and taxes. Completion. The installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or natural gas, or, in the case of a dry hole, the reporting of abandonment to the appropriate agency. Deterministic estimate. The method of estimating reserves or resources when a single value for each parameter (from the geoscience, engineering, or economic data) in the reserves calculation is used in the reserves estimation procedure. Developed Acreage. The number of acres which are allocated or assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production. Developed Reserves. Developed oil and gas reserves are reserves of any category that can be expected to be recovered (i) through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and (ii) through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate. Development Well. A well drilled within the proved area of an oil or natural gas reservoir, or which extends a proved reservoir, to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. Downspacing Wells. Additional wells drilled between known producing wells to better exploit the reservoir. Dry Hole; Dry Well. A well found to be incapable of producing either oil or natural gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or natural gas well. Economically producible. As it relates to a resource, a resource which generates revenue that exceeds, or is reasonably expected to exceed, the costs of the operation. Exploitation. The continuing development of a known producing formation in a previously discovered field. To maximize the ultimate recovery of oil or natural gas from the field by development wells, secondary recovery equipment or other suitable processes and technology. Exploratory Well. A well drilled to find a new field or to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir. Farmout. An assignment of an interest in a drilling location and related acreage conditional upon the drilling of a well on that location. Formation. A succession of sedimentary beds that were deposited under the same general geologic conditions. Fracture Stimulation. A stimulation treatment routinely performed involving the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure to stimulate hydrocarbon production in low-permeability reservoirs. Full Cost Pool. The full cost pool consists of all costs associated with property acquisition, exploration, and development activities for a company using the full cost method of accounting. Additionally, any internal costs that can be directly identified with acquisition, exploration and development activities are included. Any costs related to production, general corporate overhead or similar activities are not included. Gross Acres or Gross Wells. The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. Held-by-production. A provision in an oil, gas and mineral lease that perpetuates a company’s right to operate a property or concession as long as the property or concession produces a minimum paying quantity of oil or gas. Horizontal Wells. Wells which are drilled at angles greater than 70 degrees from vertical. Infill drilling. Drilling of a well between known producing wells to better exploit the reservoir. 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Initial production rate. Generally, the maximum 24 hour production volume from a well. Mbbl. One thousand stock tank barrels. Mcf. One thousand cubic feet of natural gas. Mcfe. One thousand cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Mmbbl. One million stock tank barrels. Mmbtu. One million British thermal units. Mmcf. One million cubic feet of natural gas. Mmcf/d. One million cubic feet of natural gas per day. Mmcfe. One million cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Mmcfe/d. One million cubic feet equivalent per day calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Mmmbtu. One billion British thermal units. NYMEX. New York Mercantile Exchange. NGLs. The combination of ethane, propane, butane and natural gasolines that when removed from natural gas become liquid under various levels of higher pressure and lower temperature. Overriding royalty interest. An interest in an oil and/or natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production free of costs of production. Play. A term applied to a portion of the exploration and production cycle following the identification by geologists and geophysicists of areas with potential oil and gas reserves. Present value of estimated future net revenues or PV-10. The present value of estimated future net revenues is an estimate of future net revenues from a property at the date indicated, without giving effect to derivative financial instrument activities, after deducting production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs, abandonment costs and operating expenses, but before deducting future federal income taxes. The future net revenues have been discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their “present value.” The present value is shown to indicate the effect of time on the value of the net revenue stream and should not be construed as being the fair market value of the properties. Estimates have been made using constant oil and natural gas prices and operating and capital costs at the date indicated, at its acquisition date, or as otherwise indicated. We believe that the present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes, while not a financial measure in accordance with GAAP, is an important financial measure used by investors and independent oil and natural gas producers for evaluating the relative significance of oil and natural gas properties and acquisitions because the tax characteristics of comparable companies can differ materially. Probabilistic estimate. The method of estimation of reserves or resources when the full range of values that could reasonably occur for each unknown parameter (from the geoscience and engineering data) is used to generate a full range of possible outcomes and their associated probabilities of occurrence. Productive Well. A productive well is a well that is not a dry well. Proved Reserves. Those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible, from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and government regulations, prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The area of the reservoir considered as proved includes: (i) the area identified by drilling and limited by fluid contacts, if any, and (ii) adjacent undrilled portions of the reservoir that can, with reasonable certainty, be judged to be continuous with it and to contain economically producible oil or gas on the basis of available geoscience and engineering data. In the absence of data on fluid contacts, proved quantities in a reservoir are limited by the lowest known hydrocarbons (LKH) as seen in a well penetration unless geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establishes a lower contact with reasonable certainty. Where direct observation from well penetrations has defined a highest known oil (HKO) elevation and the potential exists for an associated gas cap, proved oil reserves may be assigned in the structurally higher portions of the reservoir only if geoscience, engineering, or performance data and reliable technology establish the higher contact with reasonable certainty. Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (including, but not limited to, fluid injection) are included in the proved classification when: (i) successful testing by a pilot project in an area of the reservoir with properties no more favorable than in the reservoir as a whole, the operation of an installed program in the reservoir or an analogous reservoir, or other evidence using reliable technology establishes the reasonable certainty of the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based; and (ii) the project has been approved for development by all necessary parties and entities, including governmental entities. Existing economic conditions include prices and costs at which economic producibility from a reservoir is to be determined. The price shall be the average price during the 12-month period prior to the ending date of the period covered by the report, determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within such period, unless prices are defined by contractual arrangements, excluding escalations based upon future conditions. Recompletion. An operation within an existing well bore to make the well produce oil and/or gas from a different, separately producible zone other than the zone from which the well had been producing. Reasonable certainty. If deterministic methods are used, reasonable certainty means a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as changes due to increased availability of geoscience (geological, geophysical, and geochemical), engineering, and economic data are made to estimated ultimate recovery (EUR) with time, reasonably certain EUR is much more likely to increase or remain constant than to decrease. Reserve Life. The estimated productive life, in years, of a proved reservoir based upon the economic limit of such reservoir producing hydrocarbons in paying quantities assuming certain price and cost parameters. For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, reserve life is calculated by dividing the Proved Reserves (on a Mmcfe basis) at the end of the period by the annualized average daily production volumes for December 2009. Reservoir. A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil or natural gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reserves. Resources. All quantities of petroleum naturally occurring on or within the Earth’s crust, discovered and undiscovered (recoverable and unrecoverable), plus those quantities already produced. It also includes all types of petroleum whether currently considered “conventional” or “unconventional.” Royalty interest. An interest in an oil and/or natural gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and natural gas production free of costs of production. Shale. Fine-grained sedimentary rock composed mostly of consolidated clay or mud. Shale is the most frequently occurring sedimentary rock. Spud. To start the well drilling process. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows or the Standardized Measure. Under the Standardized Measure, future cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2009 are estimated by applying the simple average spot prices for the trailing twelve month period using the first day of each month beginning on January 1, 2009 and ended December 1, 2009, adjusted for fixed and determinable escalations, to the estimated future production of year-end Proved Reserves. Spot prices used to compute estimated future cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were based on year-end spot prices for each respective year. Future cash inflows are reduced by estimated future production and development costs based on period-end and future plugging and abandonment costs to determine pre-tax cash inflows. Future income taxes are computed by applying the statutory tax rate to the excess of pre-tax cash inflows over our tax basis in the associated properties. Future net cash inflows after income taxes are discounted using a 10% annual discount rate to arrive at the Standardized Measure. Stock tank barrel. 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume. Tcf. One trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Tcfe. One trillion cubic feet equivalent calculated by converting one Bbl of oil or NGLs to six Mcf of natural gas. Undeveloped Acreage. Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and natural gas regardless of whether such acreage contains Proved Reserves. Undeveloped Reserves. Reserves of any category that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances. Undrilled locations can be classified as having undeveloped reserves only if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances, justify a longer time. Under no circumstances shall estimates for undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery technique is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual projects in the same reservoir or an analogous reservoir or by other evidence using reliable technology establishing reasonable certainty. Working interest. The operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct activities on the property and a share of production. Workovers. Operations on a producing well to restore or increase production. Available information We make our filings with the SEC available, free of charge, on our website at www.excoresources.com as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports and other information are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors noted in this section and other factors noted throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks identified in “Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations” describe examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks relating to our business Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices, which have been volatile at times, may adversely affect our revenues as well as our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, repay current or future indebtedness and obtain additional capital on attractive terms. Our future financial condition, access to capital, cash flow and results of operations depend upon the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas. We are particularly dependent on prices for natural gas. As of December 31, 2009, 96.5% of our Proved Reserves were natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Factors that affect the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas include: • the level of domestic production; • the availability of imported oil and natural gas; • political and economic conditions and events in foreign oil and natural gas producing nations, including embargoes, continued hostilities in the Middle East and other sustained military campaigns, and acts of terrorism or sabotage; • the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • the cost and availability of transportation and pipeline systems with adequate capacity; • the cost and availability of other competitive fuels; • fluctuating and seasonal demand for oil, natural gas and refined products; • concerns about global warming or other conservation initiatives and the extent of governmental price controls and regulation of production; • weather; • foreign and domestic government relations; and • overall economic conditions, particularly the recent worldwide economic slowdown which has put downward pressure on oil and natural gas prices and demand. In the past, prices of oil and natural gas have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. During 2009, the NYMEX price for natural gas has fluctuated from a high of $6.07 per Mmbtu to a low of $2.51 per Mmbtu, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil price ranged from a high of $81.37 per Bbl to a low of $33.98 per Bbl. For the five years ended December 31, 2009, the NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas price ranged from a high of $15.38 per Mmbtu to a low of $2.51 per Mmbtu, while the NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil price ranged from a high of $145.29 per Bbl to a low of $33.87 per Bbl. On December 31, 2009, the spot market price for natural gas at Henry Hub was $5.79 per Mmbtu, a 1.4% increase from December 31, 2008. On December 31, 2009, the spot market price for crude oil at Cushing was $79.36 per Bbl, a 77.9% increase from December 31, 2008. In 2009, our average realized prices (before the impact of derivative financial instruments) for oil and natural gas were $53.72 per Bbl and $3.93 per Mcf compared with 2008 average realized prices of $96.93 per Bbl and $9.06 per Mcf, respectively. Our revenues, cash flow and profitability and our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms depend substantially upon oil and natural gas prices. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Changes in the differential between NYMEX or other benchmark prices of oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price used to price our actual oil and natural gas sales could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The reference or regional index prices that we use to price our oil and natural gas sales sometimes reflect a discount to the relevant benchmark prices, such as NYMEX. The difference between the benchmark price and the price we reference in our sales contracts is called a differential. We cannot accurately predict oil and natural gas differentials. Changes in differentials between the benchmark price for oil and natural gas and the reference or regional index price we reference in our sales contracts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. There are risks associated with our drilling activity that could impact the results of our operations. Our drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs. We must incur significant expenditures to identify and acquire properties and to drill and complete wells. Additionally, seismic technology does not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or natural gas is present or economically producible. The costs of drilling and completing wells are often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. We have experienced some delays in contracting for drilling rigs, obtaining fracture stimulation crews and materials, and increasing costs to drill wells. All of these risks could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Part of our strategy involves acquiring acreage and drilling in new or emerging shale resource plays. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are subject to more uncertainties than our drilling program in the more established shallower formations and may not meet our expectations for reserves or production. The results of our drilling in new or emerging shale resource plays, such as the Haynesville/Bossier shale and the Marcellus shale, are more uncertain than drilling results in areas that are developed and have established production. Since new or emerging plays and new formations have limited or no production history, we are less able to use past drilling results in those areas to help predict our future drilling results. In addition, part of our drilling strategy to maximize recoveries from the shale resource plays involves the drilling of horizontal wells using completion techniques that have proven to be successful in other shale formations. Our experience with horizontal drilling of the Haynesville/Bossier shale and the Marcellus shale to date, as well as the industry’s drilling and production history in these formations, is limited. In the past, we acquired producing oil and natural gas properties with established production histories which generated cash flow immediately upon closing the acquisition. Since we shifted our acquisition strategy to focus on acreage acquisitions in shale areas with Haynesville/Bossier and Marcellus potential, we now invest significant capital for acreage generally without any meaningful production or immediate cash flow. We must then incur significant additional costs to drill and properly develop the acreage we acquire in these shale areas. We may use bank debt to fund these acquisitions but we do not receive credit for borrowing base purposes until we drill wells and generate production. Increased drilling in the Haynesville/Bossier shale formation may cause pipeline and gathering system capacity constraints that may limit our ability to sell natural gas and/or receive market prices for our gas. The Haynesville shale wells we have drilled to date in and around our core area have reported very high initial production rates, implying potentially large reserves. If drilling in the Haynesville/Bossier shale continues to be successful, the amount of natural gas being produced in the area from these new wells, as well as natural gas produced from other existing wells, may exceed the capacity of the various gathering and intrastate or interstate transportation pipelines currently available. If this occurs it will be necessary for new interstate and intrastate pipelines and gathering systems to be built. Because of the current economic climate, certain pipeline projects that are planned for the Haynesville/Bossier shale area may not occur because the prospective owners of these pipelines may be unable to secure the necessary financing. In addition, capital constraints could limit our ability to build intrastate gathering systems 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements necessary to transport our natural gas to interstate pipelines. In such event, this could result in wells being shut-in awaiting a pipeline connection or capacity and/or natural gas being sold at much lower prices than those quoted on NYMEX or than we currently project, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Our use of derivative financial instruments is subject to risks that our counterparties may default on their contractual obligations to us and may cause us to forego additional future profits or result in our making cash payments. To reduce our exposure to changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, we have entered into and may in the future enter into derivative financial instrument arrangements for a portion of our oil and natural gas production. The agreements that we have entered into generally have the effect of providing us with a fixed price for a portion of our expected future oil and natural gas production over a fixed period of time. Our derivative financial instruments are subject to mark-to-market accounting treatment. The change in the fair market value of these instruments is reported as a non-cash item in our statement of operations each quarter, which typically result in significant variability in our net income. Derivative financial instruments expose us to the risk of financial loss and may limit our ability to benefit from increases in oil and natural gas prices in some circumstances, including the following: • the counterparty to the derivative financial instrument contract may default on its contractual obligations to us; • there may be a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative financial instrument agreement and actual prices received; or • market prices may exceed the prices which we are contracted to receive, resulting in our need to make significant cash payments. Our use of derivative financial instruments could have the effect of reducing our revenues and the value of our common stock. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we received cash payments to settle our derivative financial instrument contracts totaling $478.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we made cash payments to settle our oil and natural gas derivative financial instrument contracts totaling $109.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2009, a $1.00 increase in the average commodity price per Mcfe would have resulted in an increase in cash settlement payments (or a decrease in settlements received) of approximately $96.9 million. As of December 31, 2009, the net unrealized gains on our oil and natural gas derivative financial instrument contracts were $159.9 million. The ultimate settlement amount of these unrealized derivative financial instrument contracts is dependent on future commodity prices. In connection with acquisitions which included producing properties, we have, in certain instances, assumed derivative financial instruments covering a significant portion of estimated future production. We may incur significant unrealized losses in the future from our use of derivative financial instruments to the extent market prices increase and our derivatives contracts remain in place. See “—Item 7. Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Our results of operations—Derivative financial instruments.” We have incurred a substantial amount of indebtedness to fund our acquisitions, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.2 billion, a substantial reduction from our December 31, 2008 consolidated debt of approximately $3.0 billion as a result of proceeds received from our 2009 divestiture program and joint venture transactions. While our consolidated debt has been substantially reduced, our reserves, borrowing base, production and cash flows have also been reduced as a result of our divestitures and joint venture transactions. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we expect to fund acreage acquisitions with debt, which may increase our outstanding debt without any corresponding borrowing base increases. If our operating cash flow and other capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt under our credit facilities, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. We may be unable to acquire or develop additional reserves, which would reduce our revenues and access to capital. Our success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are profitable to produce. Factors that may hinder our ability to acquire or develop additional oil and natural gas reserves include competition, access to capital, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and the number and attractiveness of properties for sale. If we are unable to conduct successful development activities or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves, our total Proved Reserves will generally decline as a result of production. Also, our production will generally decline. In addition, if our reserves and production decline, then the amount we are able to borrow under our credit agreements will also decline. We may be unable to locate additional reserves, drill economically productive wells or acquire properties containing Proved Reserves. We may not identify all risks associated with the acquisition of oil and natural gas properties, and any indemnifications we receive from sellers may be insufficient to protect us from such risks, which may result in unexpected liabilities and costs to us. Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual property involved in an acquisition. Our business strategy focuses on acquisitions of producing oil and natural gas properties. Any future acquisitions will require an assessment of recoverable reserves, title, future oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental hazards, potential tax and Employee Retirement Security Act, or ERISA, liabilities, and other liabilities and other similar factors. Ordinarily, our review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties. Even a detailed review of properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. We do not inspect every well that we acquire. Potential problems, such as deficiencies in the mechanical integrity of equipment or environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when we inspect a well. Any unidentified problems could result in material liabilities and costs that negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Even if we are able to identify problems with an acquisition, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection or indemnity against all or part of these problems. Even if a seller agrees to provide indemnity, the indemnity may not be fully enforceable and may be limited by floors and caps on such indemnity. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to implement our growth strategy. The growth of our business will require substantial capital on a continuing basis. Due to the amount of debt we have incurred, it may be difficult for us in the foreseeable future to obtain additional debt financing or to obtain additional secured financing other than purchase money indebtedness. If we are unable to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms and conditions, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and natural gas properties and businesses and, therefore, be unable to implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to successfully prevent or address material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or any other control deficiencies, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis and to comply with disclosure and other requirements may be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies subject to the act to disclose any material weaknesses discovered through management’s assessments. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Prior to December 31, 2007, we were not required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of these and other processes, procedures and controls and will make any further changes management determines appropriate, including to effect compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may affect our ability to comply with SEC reporting requirements and the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listing standards or cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements, which could negatively affect the market price and trading liquidity of our common stock, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, as well as subject us to civil or criminal investigations and penalties. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. While we have taken actions designed to address compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, such as growth of our company or increased transaction volume, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We may encounter obstacles to marketing our oil and natural gas, which could adversely impact our revenues. Our ability to market our oil and natural gas production will depend upon the availability and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and other transportation facilities. We are primarily dependent upon third parties to transport our products. Transportation space on the gathering systems and pipelines we utilize is occasionally limited or unavailable due to repairs, outages caused by accidents or other events, or improvements to facilities or due to space being utilized by other companies that have priority transportation agreements. We experienced production curtailments in East Texas/North Louisiana during 2009 and the Appalachian Basin during 2007, 2008 and 2009 resulting from capacity restraints and short term shutdowns of certain pipelines for maintenance purposes. Our access to transportation options can also be affected by U.S. federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, general economic conditions and changes in supply and demand. These factors and the availability of markets are beyond our control. If market factors dramatically change, the impact on our revenues could be substantial and could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas, the value of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends on our company stock. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may not correctly evaluate reserve data or the exploitation potential of properties as we engage in our acquisition, exploration, development and exploitation activities. Our future success will depend on the success of our acquisition, exploration, development and exploitation activities. Our decisions to purchase, explore, develop or otherwise exploit properties or prospects will depend in part on the evaluation of data obtained from production reports and engineering studies, geophysical and geological analyses and seismic and other information, the results of which are often inconclusive and subject to various interpretations, which could significantly reduce our ability to generate cash needed to service our debt and fund our capital program and other working capital requirements. We cannot control the development of the properties we own but do not operate, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, third parties operate wells that represent approximately 3.0% of our Proved Reserves. As a result, the success and timing of our drilling and development activities on those properties depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including: • the timing and amount of capital expenditures; • the operators’ expertise and financial resources; • the approval of other participants in drilling wells; and • the selection of suitable technology. If drilling and development activities are not conducted on these properties or are not conducted on a timely basis, we may be unable to increase our production or offset normal production declines, which may adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. Our estimates of oil and natural gas reserves involve inherent uncertainty, which could materially affect the quantity and value of our reported reserves and our financial condition. Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves, including many factors beyond our control. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the PV-10 and Standardized Measure of our proved oil and natural gas reserves. These estimates are based upon reports of our independent petroleum engineers. These reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC as to constant oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. These estimates should not be construed as the current market value of our estimated Proved Reserves. The process of estimating oil and natural gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. As a result, the estimates are inherently imprecise evaluations of reserve quantities and future net revenue. Our actual future production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from those we have assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the quantity and value of reserves, the amount of PV-10 and Standardized Measure described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our financial condition. In addition, our reserves or PV-10 and Standardized Measure may be revised downward or upward, based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development activities, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors. A material decline in prices paid for our production can adversely impact the estimated volumes of our reserves. Similarly, a decline in market prices for oil or natural gas may adversely affect our PV-10 and Standardized Measure. Any of these negative effects on our reserves or PV-10 and Standardized Measure may decrease the value of our common stock. New SEC and GAAP reserve reporting requirements may affect the results of our reserve estimates and could change our relative positioning in the industry with regard to reserve estimates. On December 31, 2008, the SEC issued Release No. 33-8995, “Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting” amending and expanding its disclosure requirements for oil and natural gas producing companies. The new rules 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements and disclosure requirements are effective as of December 31, 2009. On January 16, 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted rules conforming GAAP to the new SEC definitions and rules. These changes are the first major modifications to the accounting-based reserve reporting requirements since 1982. Among other things, the new SEC rules modify various definitions impacting categories of oil and natural gas reserves and replace the previous pricing mechanism of using the last day of our fiscal year by using an average price mechanism based on the first day of the last twelve months for purposes of computing reserve quantities as of December 31, 2009 and subsequent periods. In addition, these new requirements not only require oil and gas companies to report Proved Reserves, but also permit voluntary disclosure of ‘probable’ and ‘possible’ reserves. While the new rules are intended to provide investors with a more complete picture of the reserves of reporting companies, and were made with an eye towards continuing to recognize new technologies and knowledge about the geometry and extent of oil and natural gas fields, these changes will potentially affect the results of our reserve estimates and application of these new reserve reporting rules by competitors may change our relative positioning in the industry as a whole with regards to reserve estimates. We are exposed to operating hazards and uninsured risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, including the risks of: • fires, explosions and blowouts; • pipe failures; • abnormally pressured formations; and • environmental accidents such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination). We have in the past experienced some of these events during our drilling, production and midstream operations. These events may result in substantial losses to us from: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution or other environmental damage; • environmental clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation; • penalties and suspension of operations; or • attorneys’ fees and other expenses incurred in the prosecution or defense of litigation. As is customary in our industry, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover these potential losses or liabilities. Furthermore, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at commercially acceptable premium levels or at all. Due to cost considerations, from time to time we have declined to obtain coverage for certain drilling activities. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could require us to make large unbudgeted cash expenditures that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Our oil and natural gas development and production operations are subject to complex and stringent laws and regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to comply with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations as interpreted and enforced by governmental authorities possessing jurisdiction over various aspects of the exploration for, production and sale of, oil and natural gas. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Item 1. Business—Applicable laws and regulations” for a description of the laws and regulations that affect us. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obama’s proposed Fiscal Year 2011 Budget included proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the manufacturing deduction for certain domestic production activities, and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of any legislation as a result of these proposals or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. The adoption of climate change legislation by Congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. On June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, also known as the Waxman-Markey cap-and-trade legislation, or ACES. The purpose of ACES is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, in the United States. GHGs are certain gases, including carbon dioxide, a product of the combustion of natural gas, and methane, a primary component of natural gas, that may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere resulting in climatic changes. ACES would establish a cap on total emissions of GHGs from certain categories of emission sources in the United States and require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of 17% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. Under ACES, those categories of sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission “allowances” corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet ACES’s overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances declines each year, the cost or value of allowances is expected to escalate significantly. If enacted, the net effect of ACES would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and natural gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. If the Senate adopts GHG legislation that is different from ACES, the Senate legislation would need to be reconciled with ACES, and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it could become law. President Obama has indicated that he is in support of the adoption of legislation to control and reduce emissions of GHGs through an emission allowance system that results in fewer allowances being issued over time, but that allows parties to buy, sell and trade allowances as needed to fulfill their GHG emission obligations. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the Senate may act on climate change legislation or how any bill approved by the Senate would be reconciled with ACES, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil and natural gas we produce. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA,” has also taken recent action related to greenhouse gases. On December 7, 2009, the EPA issued a notice of its finding and determination that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other GHGs may reasonably be anticipated to endanger the public health and public welfare by, among other things, increasing ground-level ozone, altering the climate, contributing to a rise in sea levels, and harming water resources, agriculture, wildlife, and ecosystems. Once EPA promulgates regulations 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements controlling GHG emissions, for example, regarding emissions from motor vehicles, which EPA has indicated may occur in 2010, EPA will be required to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing permitting provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. Those permitting provisions could require controls or other measures to reduce GHG emissions from new or modified sources, and we could incur additional costs to satisfy those permitting requirements. EPA has proposed a “Tailoring Rule” to regulate the permitting of GHG sources under the Clean Air Act’s PSD and Title V programs. Although it may take EPA several years to adopt and impose regulations limiting stationary source emissions of GHGs, any limitation on emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. On September 22, 2009, EPA finalized a GHG reporting rule that will require large sources of GHG emissions to monitor, maintain records on, and annually report their GHG emissions. Although this rule does not limit the amount of GHGs that can be emitted, it could require us to incur costs to monitor, recordkeep and report emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. The adoption of derivatives legislation by Congress could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Legislation has been proposed in Congress and by the Treasury Department to impose restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives, which could affect the use of derivatives in hedging transactions. Under proposed legislation, OTC derivative dealers and other major OTC derivative market participants could be subjected to substantial supervision and regulation. The legislation generally would expand the power of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, to regulate derivative transactions related to energy commodities, including oil and natural gas, to mandate clearance of derivative contracts through registered derivative clearing organizations, and to impose conservative capital and margin requirements and strong business conduct standards on OTC derivative transactions. The CFTC has proposed regulations that would implement speculative limits on trading and positions in certain commodities. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress may act on derivatives legislation or the CFTC may issue new regulations, any laws or regulations that may be adopted that subject us to additional capital or margin requirements relating to, or to additional restrictions on, our trading and commodity positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activity. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to remove the exemption for hydraulic fracturing operations and require reporting and disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate natural gas production. Sponsors of bills pending before the Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. These bills, if adopted, could increase the possibility of litigation and establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens, making it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increasing our costs of compliance. Our business exposes us to liability and extensive regulation on environmental matters, which could result in substantial expenditures. Our operations are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of materials into the water and air, the generation, management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. We could incur material costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil and criminal sanctions and third-party claims for property damage and personal injury as a result of violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations not only expose us to liability for our own activities, but may also expose us to liability for the conduct of others or for actions by us that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those actions were taken. In addition, we could incur substantial expenditures 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements complying with environmental laws and regulations, including future environmental laws and regulations which may be more stringent, for example, the regulation of GHG emissions under new federal legislation, the federal Clean Air Act, or state or regional regulatory programs. Regulation of GHG emissions by Congress, EPA, or various states in the United States in areas in which we conduct business could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce. Our business substantially depends on Douglas H. Miller, our Chief Executive Officer. We are substantially dependent upon the skills of Mr. Douglas H. Miller. Mr. Miller has extensive experience in acquiring, financing and restructuring oil and natural gas companies. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Miller or maintain key man insurance. The loss of the services of Mr. Miller could hinder our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. We may have write-downs of our asset values, which could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth. We follow the full cost method of accounting for our oil and natural gas properties. Depending upon oil and natural gas prices in the future, and at the end of each quarterly and annual period when we are required to test the carrying value of our assets using full cost accounting rules, we may be required to write-down the value of our oil and natural gas properties if the present value of the after-tax future cash flows from our oil and natural gas properties falls below the net book value of these properties. We have in the past, including 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, experienced ceiling test write-downs with respect to our oil and natural gas properties. Future non-cash ceiling test write-downs could negatively affect our results of operations and net worth. We also test goodwill for impairment annually or when circumstances indicate that an impairment may exist. If the book value of our reporting units exceeds the estimated fair value of those reporting units, an impairment charge will occur, which would negatively impact our net worth. We may experience a financial loss if any of our significant customers fail to pay us for our oil or natural gas. Our ability to collect the proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas from our customers depends on the payment ability of our customer base, which includes several significant customers. If any one or more of our significant customers fails to pay us for any reason, we could experience a material loss. In addition, in recent years, a number of energy marketing and trading companies have discontinued their marketing and trading operations, which has significantly reduced the number of potential purchasers for our oil and natural gas production. This reduction in potential customers has reduced market liquidity and, in some cases, has made it difficult for us to identify creditworthy customers. We also sell a portion of our natural gas directly to end users. We may experience a material loss as a result of the failure of our customers to pay us for prior purchases of our oil or natural gas. We may experience a decline in revenues if we lose one of our significant customers. During 2009, there were no sales to any individual customer which exceeded more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. However, during 2008 and in previous years, sales to Crosstex Gulf Coast Marketing and Atmos Energy have exceeded a 10% threshold. We continue to sell substantial quantities of natural gas to these customers. As our volumes in the Haynesville shale grow, these customers and others are expected to become more significant. The loss of any significant customer may cause a temporary interruption in sales of, or a lower price for, our oil and natural gas. We have entered into significant natural gas firm transportation contracts primarily in East Texas and North Louisiana which require us to pay fixed amounts of money to the shippers regardless of quantities actually shipped. If we are unable to deliver the necessary quantities of natural gas to the shippers, our results of operations and liquidity could be adversely affected. As of February 12, 2010, we were contractually committed to spend approximately $33.5 million in 2010 and over $300.0 million over the next ten years for firm transportation services. We may enter into additional 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements firm transportation agreements as our development of our Haynesville, Bossier and Marcellus shale plays expand. We expect our production volumes, as well as our competitors, to increase significantly in the Haynesville and Marcellus shale areas. The use of firm transportation allows us priority space in a shippers’ pipeline which we believe is a strategic advantage. In the event we encounter delays due to construction, interruptions of operations or delays in connecting new volumes to gathering systems or pipelines for an extended period of time, the requirements to pay for quantities not delivered could have a material impact on our results of operations and liquidity. Competition in our industry is intense and we may be unable to compete in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and hiring experienced personnel. The oil and natural gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from other independent operators and from major oil companies in acquiring properties, contracting for drilling equipment and securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources and headcount substantially larger than ours. As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases, or to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources will permit. The oil and natural gas industry has periodically experienced shortages of drilling rigs, equipment, pipe and personnel, which has delayed development drilling and other exploitation activities and has caused significant price increases. We may experience difficulties in obtaining drilling rigs and other services in certain areas as well as an increase in the cost for these services and related material and equipment. We are unable to predict when, or if, such shortages may again occur or how such shortages and price increases will affect our development and exploitation program. Competition has also been strong in hiring experienced personnel, particularly in petroleum engineering, geoscience, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land professions. In addition, competition is strong for attractive oil and natural gas producing properties, oil and natural gas companies, and undeveloped leases and drilling rights. We are often outbid by competitors in our attempts to acquire properties or companies. All of these challenges could make it more difficult to execute our growth strategy and increase our costs. If third-party pipelines or other facilities interconnected to our gathering and transportation pipelines become unavailable to transport or process natural gas, our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options from our transportation and gathering pipelines for the benefit of our customers. Much of the natural gas transported by our pipelines must be treated or processed before delivery into a pipeline for natural gas. If the processing and treating plants to which we deliver natural gas were to become temporarily or permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to pipelines, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity or other causes, our customers would be unable to deliver natural gas to end markets. Either of such events could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks relating to our indebtedness We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of February 12, 2010, we had approximately $1.2 billion of indebtedness, including $747.6 million of indebtedness which is subject to variable interest rates and $444.7 million of senior notes with a near-term maturity of January 15, 2011. Our total interest expense, excluding amortization of deferred financing costs, on an annual basis based on current available interest rates would be approximately $50.3 million and would change by approximately $7.5 million for every 1% change in interest rates. Our level of debt could have important consequences, including the following: • it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt agreements, including financial and other restrictive 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements covenants, could result in an event of default under the indenture with Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, or the Indenture, governing our senior notes and the agreements governing our other indebtedness; • we may have difficulty borrowing money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations; • the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; • we will need to use a substantial portion of our cash flows to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the amount of money we have for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other business activities; • we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially declines in oil and natural gas prices; and • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will be unable to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money to service our debt, we may be required but unable to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Further, failing to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes could result in an event of default, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantially more debt, which may intensify the risks described above, including our ability to service our indebtedness. Together with our subsidiaries, we may incur substantially more debt in the future in connection with our exploration, exploitation, development, acquisitions of undeveloped acreage and production of oil and natural gas producing properties. The restrictions in our debt agreements on our incurrence of additional indebtedness are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. Significant additions of undeveloped acreage financed with debt may result in increased indebtedness without any corresponding increase in borrowing base, which could curtail drilling and development of this acreage or could cause us to not comply with our debt covenants. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including our senior notes and loans under our credit agreements, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations and other resources in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for oil and natural gas. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our senior notes and loans under our credit agreements, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. None of these remedies may, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit agreements contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to: • dispose of assets; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness and issue certain types of preferred stock; • pay dividends on our capital stock; • create liens on our assets; • enter into sale or leaseback transactions; • enter into specified investments or acquisitions; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • merge or consolidate, or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries; • engage in specified transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates; or • pursue other corporate activities. Also, our credit agreements require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and, as a result, we may be unable to meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit arrangements. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in acceleration of all indebtedness outstanding under our credit arrangements. The accelerated debt would become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may be unable to pay all such debt or to borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. Risks relating to our common stock Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on February 9, 2006. An active trading market may not be sustained. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly as a result of: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of public market analysis; 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry; • the success of our operating strategy; and • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2009, we had 211,905,509 shares of common stock outstanding. All shares are freely tradable by persons other than our affiliates. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional common or preferred stock. The equity trading markets may be volatile, which could result in losses for our shareholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Our articles of incorporation permit us to issue preferred stock that may restrict a takeover attempt that you may favor. Our articles of incorporation permit our board to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to establish by resolution one or more series of preferred stock and the powers, designations, preferences and participating, optional or other special rights of each series of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued on terms that are unfavorable to the holders of our common stock, including the grant of superior voting rights, the grant of preferences in favor of preferred shareholders in the payment of dividends and upon our liquidation and the designation of conversion rights that entitle holders of our preferred stock to convert their shares into our common stock on terms that are dilutive to holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock in future offerings may make a takeover or change in control of us more difficult. We may reduce or discontinue paying our quarterly cash dividend if our board of directors determines that paying a dividend is no longer appropriate. In October 2009, we commenced a $0.025 quarterly cash dividend program on shares of our common stock. Any future dividend payments will depend on our earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, prospects and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. At any time, our board of directors may decide to reduce or discontinue paying our quarterly cash dividend. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates. In addition, our credit agreements and the Indenture governing our senior notes restrict our ability to pay dividends. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 