Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, these factors could adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Our operations may be adversely affected by general economic conditions General economic factors that are beyond our control impact our forecasts and actual performance. These factors include interest rates, recession, inflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, energy costs, tax policy changes, unemployment trends, the threat of war, terrorism or other political unrest, and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Volatility in financial markets may cause these factors to change with a greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Changes in the economic climate could adversely affect our performance. Our growth is dependent upon attracting and retaining independent sales consultants Our continued growth and success in the UBAH is dependent on our ability to attract and retain sales consultants, their ability to operate their businesses successfully and to recruit other sales consultants. To attract and retain new sales consultants, we provide operational manuals and sales materials, participate in regional and national training seminars, offer low-cost start-up opportunities, provide a variety of sales incentives and pay competitive sales commissions and bonuses. These sales consultants are independent business owners and we have no control over the time and effort each individual consultant chooses to spend on their business. Our business faces a great deal of competitive pressure The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for sales consultants with many other direct selling companies, most of whom offer products different from our products. Most of these competitors have a greater market presence and larger financial resources. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and marketing practices of these competitors may adversely affect the performance of UBAH Division. The Publishing Division operates in a highly competitive market. The Publishing Division is in direct competition with other booksellers, the majority of which have larger financial resources than we have. The book industry is a $24 billion market. Sales in the juvenile paperback market, our primary market, were approximately $1.3 billion for calendar year 2006. Our market share in the juvenile paperback market was less than 1.0% in fiscal year 2007. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and marketing practices of these competitors may adversely affect the performance of our Publishing Division. Seasonality of sales Our business is subject to seasonal influences, with a higher portion of sales and income historically realized during the third quarter of the fiscal year, which includes the back-to-school and holiday seasons. This seasonality causes our operating results to vary somewhat from quarter to quarter and could materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities. Our operations are dependent on a single distribution facility Our distribution activities for all books are handled from a single facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, 5 Table of Contents system failures or other unforeseen causes could impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our customers. We have a sole source supplier for our products We are the exclusive United States distributor for the line of children’s books published by Usborne Publishing, Limited, London, UK and our distribution of other publishers’ products is extremely limited. There is some risk in having a sole source for our products. The contract between Usborne Publishing, Limited and us has a two-year notice of termination requirement. However, we have an excellent working relationship with our foreign supplier Usborne Publishing, Limited and can foresee no reason for this to change. All our products are imported from overseas locations Our products are printed at locations throughout Europe, China, Singapore, India, Malaysia and Dubai. The products are then shipped by ocean cargo to the United States. Political unrest in a particular location could cause delays in securing products. However, since our supplier has numerous sources for printing the products, should political unrest occur in one area, the supplier could utilize printers in other locations to provide our product. Should an accident occur while the books are in transit and the supply of a title be depleted as a result, we would experience lost sales. Our common stock is thinly traded Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ market under the symbol EDUC. There were 3,757,323 shares outstanding at February 28, 2007. The average shares traded daily for the fiscal years ended February 28, 2007, February 28, 2006, and February 28, 2005 were 3,021 shares, 3,371 shares, and 9,855 shares, respectively. Personnel changes Our development has largely been achieved through the vision and efforts of our President and CEO. If his services were not available for any reason, our business could be adversely affected. Other factors may negatively affect our business The foregoing list of risk factors is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect us. We do not undertake to revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date the statement is made. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 