Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information contained in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition of the Company. In addition, these factors could adversely affect the value of an investment in the Company’s common stock. Our operations may be adversely affected by general economic conditions. General economic factors that are beyond the Company’s control impact the Company’s forecasts and actual performance. These factors include interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and policy; unemployment trends; the threat or possibility of war, terrorism or other global or national unrest; political or financial instability; and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause these factors to change with a greater degree of frequency and magnitude. Changes in the economic climate could adversely affect the Company’s performance. Our growth is dependent upon attracting and retaining sales consultants Our continued growth and success is dependent in part upon our ability to attract and retain sales consultants in the Usborne Books at Home Division, the ability of these sales consultants to operate their businesses successfully and the ability of these sales consultants to recruit other sales consultants. To attract and retain new sales consultants, the Company provides operational manuals and sales materials, participates in regional and national training seminars, provides low start-up costs, offers monetary sales incentives and pays competitive sales commissions and bonuses. The investor should understand that these sales consultants are independent business owners and the Company has no control over the time and effort each individual consultant chooses to spend working their business. Our business faces a great deal of competitive pressure. The retail business is highly competitive. The Company competes for sales consultants with many other direct selling companies, most of whom offer products different than the Company’s products. Most of these competitors have a greater market presence than the Company and have larger financial resources. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and marketing practices of these competitors may adversely affect the performance of the Company’s Usborne Books at Home Division. The Publishing Division operates in a market that is highly competitive, with a large number of companies selling books. The Publishing Division is in direct competition with all of these other companies, the majority of which have larger financial resources than the Company. The book industry is a $25.1 billion market. Sales in the juvenile paperback market, the Company’s market, were approximately $851 million for calendar year 2005. The Company’s market share in the juvenile paperback market was 1.0% in fiscal year 2006. Unanticipated changes in the pricing and marketing practices of these competitors may adversely affect the performance of the Company’s Publishing Division. Seasonality of sales. The Company’s business is subject to seasonal influences, with a major portion of sales and income historically realized during the first and third quarters of the fiscal year, which includes the back-to-school and holiday seasons, respectively. This seasonality causes the Company’s operating results to vary somewhat from quarter to quarter and could materially and adversely affect the market price of its securities 7 Table of Contents Our operations are dependent on a single distribution facility. The Company’s distribution functions for all of its books are handled from a single facility in Tulsa, Oklahoma. Any significant interruption in the operation of the distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair the Company’s ability to distribute merchandise to its customers, which could cause sales to decline. The Company has a sole source supplier for its products. The Company is the sole source United States distributor for the Usborne line of children’s book published by Usborne Publishing, LTD, London, UK. There is some risk in having only one source for its products. The contract between the Company and Usborne Publishing, LTD has a two-year notice of termination requirement. However, the Company has an excellent working relationship with its foreign supplier Usborne Publishing, LTD and can foresee no reason for this to change. All our products are imported from overseas locations. The Company’s products are printed at locations throughout Europe, China, Singapore, India, Malaysia and Dubai. The products are then shipped by ocean cargo to the United States. There is some risk of political unrest causing delays in securing products. However, the Company’s supplier has numerous sources for printing the Company’s products and should political unrest occur in one area the supplier could utilize printers in other locations to provide the Company’s product. There is some risk of physical loss of the books should an accident occur while the books are in transit. This could result in an economic loss to the Company, due to lost sales, should the supply of some titles be depleted in the event of a lost shipment. The Company’s common stock is thinly traded. The Company’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ market under the symbol EDUC. There were 3,753,923 shares outstanding at February 28, 2006. The average shares traded for the fiscal years ended February 28, 2006, February 28, 2005 and February 29, 2004 were 3,371 shares, 9,855 shares and 5,297 shares, respectively. Personnel changes. The Company’s development has largely been achieved through the vision and efforts of our President and CEO. If his services were not available for any reason, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. Other factors may negatively affect our business. The foregoing list of risk factors is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect the Company. The Company does not undertake to revise any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date the statement is made Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 