ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSStatement of Caution Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995In this Annual Report on Form 10-K we have included some statements and other information that are not historical facts but are “forward‑looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The materials presented can be identified by the use of forward‑looking terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “may,” “should,” “view,” or “will” or the negative or other variations of those words. We caution that these statements are subject to a number of uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that could affect our actual results include those set forth below under “Factors that May Affect Future Results” and other uncertainties disclosed in our reports filed from time to time with the SEC. You should read these factors in conjunction with the factors discussed elsewhere in this and our other filings with the SEC and in materials incorporated by reference in these filings. These factors are intended to highlight certain items that may affect our financial condition and results of operations and are not meant to be an exhaustive discussion of risks that apply to companies like ours.Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad. Similarly, the price of our securities is subject to volatility due to fluctuations in general market conditions, actual financial results that do not meet our and/or the investment community’s expectations, changes in our and/or the investment community’s expectations for our future results and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, to reflect new information, future events or otherwise.Factors That May Affect Future ResultsGeneral Economic Conditions Continue to be Uncertain and Could Adversely Affect our Business.Like many other businesses, our business is subject to the global macroeconomic environment and a number of general economic and regulatory factors, which have been and remain uncertain and potentially volatile including interest rates, recession, inflation, exchange rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, health care costs and governmental policy, tax rates and tax policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence business and consumer confidence and spending. These factors could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including increasing our costs or imposing practical limits on pricing, both of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If business or consumer spending decreases or fails to develop, or general economic conditions deteriorate, we could experience significantly diminished demand for our products, which would also materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, if the financial condition of our customers, including our distributors, is adversely affected, our revenues could be substantially lower and some parties may not pay us or may delay paying us for products. Also, if the banking system or the financial markets deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted, and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. 12Table of ContentsAdverse Changes in end-market demand, due to downturns or other changes in the semiconductor industry, seasonality, or economic factors, could affect our operating results and the value of our business.The semiconductor industry is cyclical and often very volatile. We compete in many end markets and service thousands of customers, whether directly or through distribution. Our target markets have wide fluctuations in product supply and demand, and also experience significant downturns, often in connection with actual or anticipated declines in general economic conditions, industry inventory levels and maturing product cycles. The market value of our business may decline during the down portion of cycles or rapid adverse changes in demand. We can also experience sharp declines in end-market demand, leading to under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity and declining revenues and gross margins. In addition, in those circumstances, we have previously recorded significant charges to recognize impairment in the value of some of our manufacturing equipment, the costs to reduce the size of our workforce and exit facilities, and other restructuring costs, and could do so again in the future.Some of our business segments also experience annual seasonality with wide fluctuations of supply and demand, which may result in significant quarter to quarter fluctuations in revenues and gross margins in those segments. Changes in the mix of customer demand can adversely affect our operating results and require additional investments in production capacity.We try to anticipate customer demand and plan our investments in manufacturing capacity and production to match anticipated demand. Also, some of our products can be sold at relatively higher gross margins than others. As a result, if the mix of customer demand changes to a mix other than what we anticipated or changes to a mix of products with relatively lower gross margins, we may experience a reduction in our revenues and gross margins. Additionally, a mismatch between our inventories and customer demand, could result in our having inventories of products that may not be sellable and not enough product of the proper mix to meet demand. These factors may result in the need to write-off unsellable inventories and/or miss revenue/sale opportunities. If the mix of customer demand requires us to increase our production capacity for particular products, we could incur additional costs associated with the introduction of new products and start-up of new facilities and production lines. As a result of these effects, adverse changes in the mix of customer demand could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. If the demand for our products or a particular mix of our products increases faster than we anticipate or are able to produce, we may not be able to satisfy the demand with our planned available capacity, which could limit our revenue growth potential and expose us to loss of design and sale opportunities, and potential liability.During rapid demand or product mix changes, product manufacturing lead times may increase and we may have challenges being able to meet the demand, especially for particular product lines. We attempt to procure internal or external capacity to meet our demand forecast and our customer demands for particular products. However, since additional capacity can take up to six months or more to obtain and install, if the demand for our products or a particular mix of our products increases at a rate faster than we anticipate or are able to produce, we may not be able to increase our internal and external manufacturing capacity fast enough to satisfy the higher demand. As a result, our revenue growth may be limited by internal or external manufacturing capacity available to us.To the extent we are not able to satisfy customer demands timely or otherwise, we may also lose design and sales opportunities which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent we are not able to satisfy our contractual obligations to fulfill products, we may be subject to potential claims. While we would defend ourselves vigorously against any such claims, large claims, if found meritorious, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and increased competition could result in lower prices for our products and adversely impact our future profitability.The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. Price pressures often exist as competitors attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices or by offering a more desirable technological solution. Product alternatives from competitors can also reduce our ability to win customer designs and reduce sales generally. To the extent our competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have, they may be able to compete on a stronger basis than us. Pricing and other competitive pressures can adversely affect our revenues and gross margin, and hence, our profitability. 13Table of ContentsNew technologies could result in the development of new more competitive products and a decrease in demand for our existing products, and we may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand.Rapidly changing technologies, design cycles, new product introductions and changing industry standards, characterize the semiconductor industry. Therefore, our financial performance depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market, sell and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. As a result, we must spend substantial resources on R&D and manufacturing capability for new products and technology platforms, including our Gallium Nitride technologies. If we do not develop new technologies or timely react to changes in existing technologies we could have lower revenues and a loss of market share relative to our competitors. We do not know if we will successfully identify and capitalize on new product opportunities or develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner (including our Gallium Nitride technologies), or that products or disruptive technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive in the future. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce wafer costs, decrease die sizes and improve manufacturing yields across our product lines. We do not know if we can accomplish these goals. In addition, if there is a fundamental shift in technologies or if we do not capitalize on our new Gallium Nitride technology before others, our competitive position within the industry would be materially and adversely affected. Delays in production at our new manufacturing facilities or at third party manufacturers, implementing new production processes or resolving problems associated with production or malfunctions could adversely affect our manufacturing capacity and efficiencies.Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities, defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower product yields and increase costs. Our manufacturing capacity and efficiency are important factors in our profitability. We cannot promise that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing capacity and efficiency to the same extent as our competitors or enough to be able to meet demand. Our strategy for increased, efficient and flexible, capacity has also included the greater use of third party manufacturers for wafer and product assembly. We are also constructing a new facility in Singapore. We have at times experienced difficulty completing construction at new facilities, in beginning production at new facilities or third party manufacturers, or in changing processes for existing products or moving and qualifying product lines to new locations. We have also from time to time experienced delays in our ability to increase capacities, delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. Additionally, from time to time, there are market constraints on our ability to obtain necessary production equipment from third party equipment manufacturers. As a consequence, our plans to adjust our manufacturing and achieve the needed capacity efficiency and flexibility, including our ability to hire staff and make our new facility in Singapore operational in a timely and cost-effective way, could be delayed or not achieved at all. We also may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, experience product delivery delays, and/or quality issues in the future, as a result of, and among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, delays in upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies or qualifying third party manufacturers to produce our products. As a result of any of these factors, we could have a loss of revenues or an inability to meet customer demands. Also, our operating results have in the past been, and in the future would be adversely affected by low utilization of our production capacity, if due to these factors our facilities are not operating at an efficient level.Our ongoing protection and reliance on intellectual property assets expose us to risks. We have traditionally relied on our patented and other proprietary technologies for protection of the products we sell and for licensing revenues. Enforcement of our rights is costly, risky and time consuming. We cannot provide assurance that we can successfully continue to protect our intellectual property rights, especially in foreign markets. We have limited recurring revenue from licensing agreements for existing patents and proprietary technologies; however, we may enter into opportunistic licensing arrangements that we believe are consistent with our business strategy. What royalty income we obtain is largely dependent on the following factors: the level of product sales and mix of products sold by licensees, the introduction and sale of products by our licensees that are not covered by our patents and proprietary technologies; the defensibility and enforceability of our patents and proprietary technologies; changes in our licensees' unit sales, prices or die sizes; the terms, if any, upon which expiring license agreements are renegotiated; and our ability to obtain revenues from new licensing opportunities. 14Table of ContentsWe cannot promise that we will obtain new licenses to produce royalties or that we will continue to receive royalties from existing licenses in the future. While we try to predict the effects of these factors, often there are variations or factors that can significantly affect results to be different from that predicted. Accordingly, we cannot promise that our predictions of our IP segment revenues will be consistent with actual results, nor can we guarantee the level of our future royalty income. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain technologies expose us to risks and could negatively affect our financial results.Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary technologies used in our products. Our ability to maintain these technologies is achieved in part by defending and maintaining the validity of our patents, defending claims of infringement brought by our competitors and other third parties, and at times by asserting intellectual property claims against third parties. We have asserted intellectual property against others and we could become subject to lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of others. We also license certain patents and other technologies owned by others for use in our products and processes. Our involvement in existing and future intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technologies and divert the efforts and attention of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is resolved in our favor. If it is claimed or determined that we have infringed the rights of third parties, we may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent or other technology owners, discontinue, change our processes or products, or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. For intellectual property licenses we have, our ability to continue to use such technologies depends on our ability to maintain such licenses. We cannot promise that we would be successful in such efforts or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms or that we would be successful in our claims against third parties. All of these factors and our failure to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies, to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, the occurrence of litigation itself or our failure to be successful in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.If some OEMs do not design our products into their equipment or if we do not convert design or program wins to actual sales, for whatever reasons, a portion of our revenues may be adversely affected.A “design-win” or program award from a customer does not guarantee that the design or program win will result in future sales to that customer. We also are unable to promise that we will be able to convert any design or program wins into sales for the life of any particular program, or at all, or that the revenues from such wins would be significant. We also cannot promise that we will achieve any level of design or program wins. Without design or program wins from OEMs, we would only be able to sell our products to these OEMs as a second source, if at all. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design or program wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design or program win with a customer also does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Accordingly, if OEMs do not design our products into their equipment or if we do not convert design or program wins to actual sales, for whatever reasons, our revenues may be materially adversely affected.Third party interruptions, delays or material cost increases affecting our materials, parts or equipment may impair our competitive position and our operations.Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment, including among other things, silicon, mold compounds, lead frames, fabrication and assembly equipment, on a timely basis from third parties. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner from our third party suppliers or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may discontinue products, extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints, market conditions or other factors. For example, from time to time we experience material cost increases for commodity metals that are included in materials used in our manufacturing processes, and the future costs of these materials remains uncertain. Additionally, we have a limited number of suppliers or sole suppliers for some materials, parts and equipment, and any interruption could materially impair our operations, our revenues, and adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand, and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15Table of ContentsInterruptions, delays or cost increases at our key facilities may impair our competitive position and our operations.We manufacture a substantial portion of the semiconductor wafers for our products at our Temecula, California and Newport, Wales facilities and use third party manufacturers to produce the remaining portion of the semiconductor wafers used by us. Also, we assemble and test products at our Tijuana, Mexico facility and use third party contract manufacturers to assemble and test a larger portion of our products. Any disruption of operations at the facilities where we manufacture products or where our products are manufactured, whether as a result of equipment malfunction or maintenance needs, natural or man-made disasters, or other effects could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues, meet customer demand and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may be found to be defective and, as a result, claims may be asserted by others, which may harm our business and our reputation with our customers and materially adversely affect our results and financial condition.Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Although we maintain quality control systems, we ship large quantities of products to a wide range of customers around the world, for use in a variety of high profile and often critical applications. Those applications include, among others, space, aviation, automotive and medical applications. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive claims that some of these products are defective or do not perform to published or agreed specifications. We could also receive claims that our products have caused personal injury or property damage. Since a defect or failure in our products could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them (and potential claims for consequential damages, or for injury or property damage, depending on applicable law and contract), we often need to defend against claims for damages that are larger than the revenues and profit we receive from the products involved. In addition, our ability to reduce the amount of these claims may be limited by the laws or the customary business practices of the countries where we do business. Even in cases where we do not believe we have legal liability for claims, we may choose to pay them to retain a customer's business or goodwill or to avoid the costs and attendant risks of protracted litigation. Our results of operations and business would be adversely affected as a result of significant alleged quality or performance issues in our products, or if we are required or choose to pay for the damages that result.Although we currently have product liability and other types of insurance, we have certain deductibles and exclusions to such policies and may not have sufficient insurance coverage. We also may not have sufficient resources to satisfy all possible product liability or other types of product claims. In addition, in our HiRel segment, we are sometimes subject to government procurement regulations and other laws that could result in costly investigations and other legal proceedings as a consequence of allegedly defective products or other actions. Any perception that our products are defective would likely result in reduced sales of our products, loss of customers and harm to our business and reputation.Our reliance on third party contractors to make semiconductor wafers and to assemble certain of our parts as a lower cost alternative may expose us to business risks.A significant portion of our semiconductor wafers are fabricated by third party contractors and are assembled and tested by third party contractors. We have used these contractors as a lower cost alternative to in-house manufacturing, and to increase our capacity efficiency and manufacturing flexibility. We review these contractors' references, and historical manufacturing experience prior to the engagement of their services, and require oversight over their quality assurance processes. However, if we fail to adequately review the contractors' historical or current manufacturing processes, or if the contractors do not perform as needed, the quality of our products could be subject to higher failure rates, which could adversely impact our reputation and the growth of future business with our customers. Although we believe that parties to our third party manufacturing arrangements would have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, there can be no assurance that these parties or any future parties will perform their obligations as expected. From time to time and in the ordinary course of business we have commercial or product quality disputes with such contractors, and there can be no assurance that other future disputes will not arise. In some instances, we do not have long-term agreements with our contractors. As a result, we do not have immediate control over our product delivery schedules or product quality. Due to the amount of time often required to qualify contractors and the high cost of qualifying multiple parties for the same products, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternative third parties to perform contract services. Any delivery delays from contractors in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, and affect our ability to satisfy customer obligations. Also, the failure of these contractors to properly perform their obligations could cause us not to achieve our goals of achieving greater capacity efficiency and flexibility. 16Table of ContentsWe maintain a backlog of customer orders that is subject to cancellation, reduction or delay in delivery schedules, which may result in lower than expected revenues and gross margin.With certain exceptions related primarily to products within our HiRel segment, we manufacture primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or to forecast, rather than under fixed supply obligations. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid changes in customer outlooks or unexpected build ups of inventory in the supply channel as a result of shifts in end-market demand generally or in the mix of that demand. Therefore, many of our purchase orders or forecasts may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the manufacturing of products, and a specific mix of products, often without significant advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to build them could have a material adverse effect on our inventory levels and value, our revenues and our operating results generally. Additionally, cancellation or significant reduction in significant customer programs, could materially affect our ability to achieve our revenues and gross margin targets. We build and maintain inventory in order to meet our historic and projected needs, but cannot assure that our inventory will be adequate to meet demand, our commitments to customers or be salable at a future date.We build and maintain inventory in order to meet our historic and projected needs, but cannot assure that we will accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary materials, and build the proper mix and amount of inventory. If we fail to adequately predict demand and align inventory to that demand, we may not be able to meet our customer commitments for deliveries of product, and our revenues and gross margin may be adversely affected. To the extent we have made contractual commitments to customers, and do not satisfy those commitments, we may be exposed to claims for damages. From time to time, we have unusually high inventory levels on hand relative to current sales. In these circumstances when we produce or have produced inventory that does not meet current or future demand, or customers revise forecasts or cancel orders, we may determine that certain of the inventory may only be sold at a discount or may not be sold at all, potentially resulting in the reduction in the carrying value of our inventory and a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our distributors may return inventory which could negatively impact our financial results.Many of our distributors have some rights to return inventory under stock rotation programs and also may return inventory with our approval or under certain circumstances. In addition, we have, from time to time, accepted, and may in the future accept, additional returns. If these distributors return a large amount of inventory, our operating results could be impacted by lower revenues and higher costs associated with inventory write-offs.We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of customers and distributors.Historically, a significant portion of our revenues has come from a relatively small number of customers and distributors. Loss or financial failure of any significant customer or distributor, reduction in orders by any of our significant customers or distributors, or cancellation of a significant order, could materially and adversely affect our business and/or that of one or more of our reportable segments.We may fail to attract or retain the qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, and key executive officers required to operate our business successfully.Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, as well as key executive officers. Personnel with the necessary semiconductor expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. While we try to ensure continuity of management in crucial areas we cannot guaranty that these efforts will be successful in all circumstances. Similarly, there is no assurance that we will be able to retain any of our existing key personnel, or attract, assimilate and retain the additional personnel needed to support our business. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 17Table of ContentsWe are subject to a revolving credit facility that may restrict our current and future operations, and the Company may not be able to use the facility when it is in adverse financial circumstances.In October 2012, we entered into a four year senior unsecured revolving credit facility which expires in October, 2016 and under which we may borrow up to $100 million. Whether or not we have borrowings under the facility, the revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on our business, including restrictions on additional indebtedness, liens and encumbrances, investments, acquisitions, loans and advances, mergers, consolidations and asset dispositions, dividends and other restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, capital expenditures and other matters customarily restricted in such agreements. The terms of the credit facility also require us to comply with certain financial tests. We cannot assure that we will be able to satisfy the financial tests set forth under the revolving credit facility to be able to make or maintain borrowings under the facility. In particular, the facility requires that the Company maintain a certain liquidity level for borrowings, and that liquidity level is not likely to be maintained during times when the Company is in an adverse financial condition. Also, whether or not we make borrowings under the facility, restrictions under the facility may limit our ability to engage in activities or transactions that could otherwise benefit us. If we cannot satisfy the restrictions and financial tests under the revolving credit facility, then we may either have to terminate the facility and repay any indebtedness thereunder or be subject to an event of default that could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner may be adversely impacted resulting in a material weakness or a material misstatement and considerable additional expense, negatively impact investor confidence and adversely impact the price of our common stock.As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes‑Oxley Act, we are required to conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In certain prior years, we had previously determined that we had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. While these material weaknesses have been remediated, there is no assurance that we would not have additional material weaknesses in the future. Each material weakness results from a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In addition, it is possible that in the future, as a result of our assessment of our internal control that we may identify material weaknesses and be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of investor confidence in our internal controls. The failure to remediate any such potential material weaknesses in a timely manner could possibly cause us to fail to complete our periodic filing requirements and obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements.We have previously been named as a defendant in lawsuits and may in the future be named as defendant in other lawsuits that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We have previously been named as a defendant in several securities class action, derivative and other lawsuits, and had been subject to investigations by governmental agencies. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to additional lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the future. For any lawsuits and proceedings, our attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations and we may incur significant expenses associated with defense and potential obligations to indemnify current and former officers and directors who may be parties to or involved in such action or proceeding. Depending on the outcome of such future lawsuits and proceedings, we may also be required to pay material damages and fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, and, consequently, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.18Table of ContentsChanges in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed and the inter-company pricing related to those profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in share‑based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (including transfer pricing guidelines, and foreign tax holdings and our ability to satisfy the conditions of foreign tax holidays); changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”); or the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings against which we have not previously provided U.S. taxes.In addition, we have made certain judgments regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In accordance with GAAP the carrying value of the net deferred tax assets is based on our assessment whether it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in the relevant jurisdictions to realize these deferred tax assets, after considering all available positive and negative evidence. If our assumptions and estimates change in the future given unforeseen changes in market conditions, tax laws or other factors, valuation allowances may be recorded or increased, resulting in increased income tax expense. Conversely, if we are ultimately able to use all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been established, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be released to reduce income tax expense, or credit additional paid-in capital or other comprehensive income, as applicable.Certain of our businesses are subject to governmental regulation and procurement processes that expose us to additional risks, including U.S. export control laws.Certain of our businesses, in particular our HiRel segment, manufacture and sell many products that are subject to U.S. export control laws and related regulations. We also manufacture and sell products that are sold indirectly to the U.S. government and may subject us to government procurement regulations, investigations or review. While we maintain a system of controls over such products designed to maintain compliance with such laws and regulations, we cannot promise that these controls will be effective in all cases. There are also limitations on the effectiveness of controls, including the failure of human judgment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of controls or are otherwise found non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, violations could lead to governmental investigations, fines, penalties and limitations on our ability to export product from the U.S., all of which could have a material effect on our financial result. Also, if these laws or regulations affecting exports change, they could adversely affect our ability to design, manufacture and sell many of our products of our HiRel segment outside the U.S., and could thereby materially adversely affect our business as a whole.U.S. governmental procurement regulations require that our HiRel segment from time to time provide to its customers certain information that is more readily provided by companies that maintain a cost accounting system meeting certain U.S. governmental standards. We do not have such a system, nor is one required for the business we conduct; however, our inability to efficiently provide cost information in the form that may be required by certain customers to satisfy U.S. government regulations may limit our ability to secure certain U.S. government related business and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin.Quality control and similar standards are applicable to our facilities and the facilities of our contractors in which certain products are manufactured, and these standards are subject to compliance review by certain U.S. Government agencies. Our use of third‑party facilities meeting such standards is subject to negotiation of satisfactory agreements with those parties and if we cannot reach such agreements, certain of our businesses, may experience production constraints and its revenues may be materially reduced. To the extent governmental regulation, or changes, or procurement decision making are not favorable to us, the results of certain of our businesses may be materially adversely affected. 19Table of ContentsCompliance with new regulations regarding the use of “conflict minerals” could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), requires the SEC to promulgate new disclosure requirements for manufacturers of products containing certain minerals which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. These “conflict minerals” are commonly found in metals used in the manufacture of semiconductors. Manufacturers are also required to disclose their efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from them. The new disclosure rules will take effect in May 2014. The implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of the metals used in the manufacture of our products. The regulations may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Finally, some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that the metals used in our products are free of conflict minerals.The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may fluctuate widely in the future.Our common stock, which is traded on the NYSE, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results and earnings, financial performance and other activities of other publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. Any similar fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot promise that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment.The semiconductor industry is capital intensive. Semiconductor manufacturing requires a regular upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment, especially for new technologies we develop, including our Gallium Nitride technologies. We are also attempting to add the appropriate level and mix of capacity to meet our customers’ future demand, as well as the establishment of our new facility in Singapore. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment, or that we will be able to complete and operate our new facility in Singapore in time and at the levels required to satisfy customer demand. Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations, existing cash reserves and other equity or debt financings that we may obtain will be sufficient to satisfy our future capital expenditure requirements, we cannot promise that this will be the case or that alternative sources of capital or credit will be available to us on favorable terms or at all.We have made and may continue to make substantial investments in plant and equipment that may become impaired.In order to conduct our business, we make substantial investments in plant and equipment, including substantial investments in support of the construction of a new facility in Singapore and in equipment loaned to our third party contract manufacturers. Some of our investments in plant and equipment support particular technologies, processes or products, and may not be applicable to other or newer technologies, processes or products. Also, the ability to relocate and qualify equipment for our operations, whether within our Company or to and from third party contractors is typically time consuming and costly. To the extent we invest in more equipment or a mix of equipment than we can use efficiently, experience low plant or equipment utilization due to reduced demand or adverse market conditions, our plant or equipment becomes older or outmoded, or we are not able to efficiently recover and/or utilize equipment on loan at third party contractors, we may incur significant costs or impairment charges that could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition.20Table of ContentsOur restructuring programs may not achieve their goals, could be costly, delayed and disruptive to our business, and could materially adversely affect our results and financial condition.In August 2012, we announced a restructuring program to modify our manufacturing strategy due to a reduction in customer demand. The plan included closing or resizing various manufacturing facilities and otherwise reducing our selling and administrative and research and development costs. While many of the actions associated with this program have already taken place, others have yet to be concluded. We cannot assure that these restructuring initiatives will achieve their goals or accomplish the cost reductions planned. Additionally, because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely affect productivity and revenues to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these restructuring activities, and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseen factors that could adversely impact our profitability and business. Costs associated with the program and the timing of the program are subject to a number of conditions, among them the ability to qualify existing product lines at other internal or external manufacturing facilities (including a new facility we are constructing in Singapore), customer requirements or demand, changes in business conditions and/or operational needs, retention of key employees, and governmental regulations. Accordingly, there could be both adverse changes in the amount of costs or the timing of the anticipated actions. Changes in the timing or amount of costs associated with, or disruptions caused by, our restructuring initiatives could materially adversely affect our results and financial condition.While we attempt to monitor the credit worthiness of our customers, we may be at risk due to the adverse financial condition of one or more customers.We have established procedures for the review and monitoring of the credit worthiness of our customers and/or significant amounts owing from customers. Despite our monitoring and procedures, especially in the current macroeconomic situation, we may find that, despite our efforts, one or more of our customers become insolvent or face bankruptcy proceedings. Such events could have an adverse effect on our operating results if our receivables applicable to that customer become uncollectable in whole or in part, or if our customers’ financial situation result in reductions in whole or in part of our ability to continue to sell our products or services to such customers at the same levels or at all. Large potential environmental liabilities or costs of related regulatory compliance may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor manufacturing processes, and on the operation of our facilities and equipment. We believe we use reasonable efforts to maintain a system of compliance and controls for these laws and regulations. However, we cannot promise that these controls will be effective or that issues with respect to these matters will not occur. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of controls, including the failure of human judgment.Under some laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Under other laws, we may be subject to fines and penalties if facilities or equipment are not operated in technical compliance with permit conditions or if required reports are not timely filed with applicable agencies. Also, we may be subject to common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. We have been subject to claims of governmental authorities and other third parties, and may continue to be in the future (See Note 11, “Environmental Matters”, to our Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8). Further, changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Additionally, if we were to divest additional facilities, our facilities may undergo further environmental review and investigation which may lead to previously unknown environmental liabilities. While we intend to defend against any claim of liability in this area vigorously, any claim against us in this regard if resolved unfavorably, or any present or future failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations, could subject us to serious liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 21Table of ContentsOur international operations expose us to material risks.We expect revenues from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenues. We maintain or contract with others to promote significant operations and equipment in foreign countries, including wafer fabrication, product assembly and testing. Among others, these risks include: changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products; trade restrictions; transportation delays; work stoppages; economic and political instability; crime; kidnapping; war; terrorism; and foreign currency fluctuations. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions where we use third party contractors, the legal systems do not provide effective remedies to us when the contractor has breached its obligation or otherwise fails to perform.In addition, it is more difficult in some foreign countries to protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as is possible in the United States. Therefore, the risk of piracy or misuse of our technology and product may be greater in these foreign countries.As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. For example:•some of our manufacturing costs are denominated in British Pound, Mexican Peso and other foreign currencies; and•some sales of our products are denominated in Euro, Japanese Yen and other foreign currencies; and•some property, plant and equipment purchases are denominated in Japanese Yen, Euro, British Pound and other foreign currencies.As a result, movements in exchange rates could cause our net sales and expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. These activities may not be successful in reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure, and could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition.Our reported results can be affected adversely and unexpectedly by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Our financial reporting is subject to GAAP, and GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting, our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially, including requirements to restate historical financial reporting.Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise the integrity of our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.We routinely collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings and liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information. It could also result in regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business/operating margins, revenues and competitive position. 22Table of ContentsTerrorist attacks, or threats or occurrences of other terrorist activities whether in the United States or internationally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability.Terrorist attacks, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, or threats or occurrences of other terrorist or related activities, whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Future terrorist or related activities could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chains and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. These activities could affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, and make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult or cost prohibitive. Due to the broad and uncertain effects that terrorist attacks have had on financial and economic markets generally, we cannot provide any estimate of how these activities might affect our future results.Natural disasters, whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability.Our corporate headquarters, one of our manufacturing facilities, one of our key research facilities, one of our key third party foundries and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. In addition, one of our major manufacturing facilities is located in a high brush fire danger area. Another major manufacturing facility and the facilities of some of our third party contractors are potentially susceptible to flood risk. Additionally, many of our other third party contractors perform work for us in areas susceptible to natural disasters.Natural disasters, whether in the United States or internationally, generally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate, our ability to achieve revenues and our profitability. In the past, our operations and those of our third party contractors have been affected by a number of natural disasters, including, among other things, earthquakes, fires, floods, volcanoes, hurricanes, and inclement weather, and may be affected by additional natural disasters in the future. Additionally, such events could result in power or other utility outages, delay or result in cancellation of domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chains, close factories and delay production, reduce sales and cancel orders, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. Such events could affect physical facilities, including without limitation, the facilities where we or our contractors or vendors produce materials and products (whether finished goods or raw materials and process chemicals and gases). Such events could also make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult, delay delivery, or cost prohibitive. Additionally, to the extent we may not be able to satisfy contractual obligations, we may be subject to potential claims. Due to the broad and uncertain effects that natural events could have on our Company, we cannot provide an estimate of how these activities might adversely affect our future results however, we could be materially and adversely affected by any of these events. Also, although we maintain insurance policies, we may not have or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at levels and with such deductibles and limitations that would prevent a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSAs of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there are no unresolved Staff comments regarding our previously filed periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act.23Table of Contents