ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statement of Caution Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10-K Report includes some statements and other information that are not historical facts but are "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The materials presented can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "may," "should," "view," or "will" or the negative or other variations thereof. We caution that such statements are subject to a number of uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that could affect our actual results include those set forth below under "Factors that May Affect Future Results" and 15 other uncertainties disclosed in our reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, to reflect new information, future events or otherwise. Factors That May Affect Future Results Pending and future governmental inquiries may adversely affect us, the trading prices of our securities and our ability to access the capital markets. During the course of the Investigation led by our Audit Committee of Board of Directors ("Audit Committee") and following its completion, our representatives met with representatives of the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service, the Office of the U.S. Attorney and other governmental officials to keep them advised as to the course of the Investigation. We continue to share information with the SEC and other governmental officials and are currently responding to subpoenas for records from the SEC. Adverse developments in connection with requests by the SEC or other governmental agencies, could negatively impact us and divert our resources and the focus of our management team from our ordinary business operations. In addition, we may incur significant expenses associated with responding to these investigations (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify current and former officers and directors who may be subject to such investigation(s)), and we may be required to pay criminal or civil fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct or suffer other penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. It is also possible that the existence, findings and outcome of these inquiries may have a negative impact on lawsuits that are pending or may be filed against us, the trading prices of our securities and our ability to access the capital markets. See Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings" for a more detailed description of these proceedings. Changes in end-market demand, due to downturns in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, the sharp correction in the housing market and/or the significant fluctuations of oil prices, could affect our operating results and the value of our business. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and the value of our business may decline during the down portion of these cycles. During fiscal year 2007, we have experienced a decline in end-market demand for our products as a result of the sharp correction in the housing market and the significant fluctuations of oil prices. Our revenue and gross margin are dependent on the level of corporate and consumer spending in various information technology and energy-saving end-market applications. If our projections of these expenditures fail to materialize, our operating results could be adversely impacted. To the extent these market conditions persist for a prolonged period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. In addition, we may experience significant changes in our profitability as a result of variations in sales, changes in product mix sought by customers, seasonality, price competition for orders and the costs associated with the introduction of new products and start-up of new facilities and additional capacity lines. The markets for our products depend on continued demand with the product technological platforms and in the mix we plan for and produce in the information technology, consumer, industrial, A&D and automotive markets. Changes in the demand mix, needed technologies and these end markets may adversely affect our ability to match our products, inventory and capacity to meet customer demand and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The semiconductor business is highly competitive and increased competition could adversely affect the price of our products and otherwise reduce the value of an investment in our company. The semiconductor industry, including the sectors in which we do business, is highly competitive. Competition is based on price, product performance, technology platform, product availability, quality, 16 reliability and customer service. Price pressures often emerge as competitors attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices or by offering a more desirable technological solution. Pricing and other competitive pressures can adversely affect our revenue and gross margin, and hence, our profitability. We also compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus they may be better able to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. New technologies could result in the development of new products and a decrease in demand for our products, and we may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand. Our failure to develop new technologies or react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in decreased revenue and a loss of market share to our competitors. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the semiconductor industry. As a result, we must devote significant resources to R&D. Our financial performance depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. During fiscal year 2007, we recognized significant revenues from the sale of certain PS product to one end customer. If our competitors were to develop a solution around our technology, the future viability of this product could be materially adversely impacted. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies in our product markets could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within the industry. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce die sizes and improve manufacturing yields. We cannot assure you that we can accomplish these goals. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our new business strategy subsequent to the sale of our PCS Business to Vishay on April 1, 2007. Our strategy included the decision to discontinue and/or not compete in older technology products or programs, and to realign our business segments and reorganize our overall manufacturing and support infrastructure to reduce operating costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations in the future. Our ongoing protection and reliance on our IP assets expose us to risks and continued levels of revenue in our IP segment is subject to our ability to (i) maintain current licenses, (ii) licensee and market factors not within our control and (iii) our ability to obtain new licenses. We have traditionally relied on our patents and proprietary technologies. Patent litigation settlements and royalty income substantially contribute to our financial results. Enforcement of our IP rights is costly, risky and time consuming. We cannot assure you that we can successfully continue to protect our IP rights, especially in foreign markets. Certain of our key MOSFET patents expired during calendar year 2007 with the broadest expiring in calendar year 2008. Certain of our MOSFET patents will remain in effect through 2010. We expect that with the expiration of our key MOSFET patents, most of our royalty revenue will cease during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. 17 Our royalty income is also largely dependent on the following factors: remaining coverage under unexpired MOSFET patents; the continuing introduction and acceptance of products that are not covered by our patents; the defensibility and enforceability of our patents; changes in our licensees' unit sales, prices or die sizes; the terms, if any, upon which expiring license agreements are renegotiated; and our ability to obtain revenue from new licensing opportunities. Market conditions and mix of licensee products, as well as sales of non-infringing devices can significantly adversely affect royalty income. We also cannot guarantee that we can obtain new licenses to offset reductions in royalties from existing licenses. While we try to predict the effects of these factors and efforts, often there are variations or factors that can significantly affect results different from that predicted. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that our predictions of our IP segment revenue will be consistent with actual results. We also cannot guarantee that our royalty income will continue at levels consistent with prior periods. Any decrease in our royalty income could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain technologies may negatively affect our financial results. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary technologies used in our principal products, which is achieved in part by defending and maintaining the validity of our patents and defending claims by our competitors of IP infringement. We license certain patents owned by others. We are currently a defendant in IP claims and we could become subject to other lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed upon the IP rights of others. Our involvement in existing and future IP litigation could result in significant expense, adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technologies and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. If any such infringements exist, arise or are claimed in the future, we may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent owners, discontinue or change our processes or products or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such efforts or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms. Our failure to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms or the occurrence of related litigation itself could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If some OEMs do not design our products into their equipment or convert design or program wins to actual sales, a portion of our revenue may be adversely affected. A "design-win" or program award from a customer does not guarantee that the design or program win will become future sales to that customer. For example, in our PS segment, we have announced new design or program wins in next generation game stations, and our other segments have had other design or program wins. We also are unable to guarantee that we will be able to convert these design or program wins, or any wins, into sales for the life of any particular program, or at all, or that the revenue from such wins would be significant. We also cannot guarantee that we will achieve the same level of design or program wins as we have in the past, or at all. Without design or program wins from OEMs, we would only be able to sell our products to these OEMs as a second source, if at all. Once an OEM designs another supplier's semiconductor into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design or program wins with that OEM's product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design or program win with a customer also does not ensure that we will receive significant revenue from that customer. 18 Delays in initiation of new production at our more advanced facilities, implementing new production processes or resolving problems associated with technical equipment malfunctions could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities, defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. In addition, as is common in the semiconductor industry, we have at times experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes. As a consequence, we have experienced delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. We may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, experience product delivery delays, and/or quality issues in the future, as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenue. Our operating results could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity if revenue does not increase proportionately. Interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting our materials, parts or equipment may impair our competitive position and our operations. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment, including silicon, mold compounds and leadframes, on a timely basis from third parties. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner from our third party suppliers or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may discontinue products, extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. We have a limited number of suppliers or sole suppliers for some materials, parts and equipment, and any interruption could materially impair our operations and adversely affect our customer relations. We manufacture a substantial portion of our wafer product at our Temecula, California and Newport, Wales facilities. Any disruption of operations at those facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may be found to be defective and, as a result, product claims may be asserted against us, which may harm our business and our reputation with our customers and significantly adversely affect our results and financial condition. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Although we maintain quality control systems, we ship large quantities of semiconductor devices to a wide range of customers around the world, in a variety of high profile and critical applications. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive claims for some of these products that are defective, or that do not perform to published specifications. Since a defect or failure in our products could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them (and consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers depending on applicable law and contract), we often need to defend against claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenue and profit we receive from the products involved. In addition, our ability to reduce such liabilities may be limited by the laws or the customary business practices of the countries where we do business. Even in cases where we do not believe we have legal liability for such claims, we may choose to pay for them to retain a customer's business or goodwill or to settle claims to 19 avoid protracted litigation. Our results of operations and business would be adversely affected as a result of significant alleged quality or performance issues in our products, or if we are required or choose to pay for the damages that result. Although we currently have product liability and other types of insurance, we have certain deductibles and exclusions to such policies and may not have sufficient insurance coverage. We also may not have sufficient resources to satisfy all possible product liability or other types of product claims. In addition, in our A&D segment, we are sometimes subject to government procurement regulations and other laws that could result in costly investigations and other legal proceedings as a consequence of allegedly defective products or other actions. Any perception that our products are defective would likely result in reduced sales of our products, loss of customers and harm to our business and reputation. Our reliance on subcontractors to assemble certain of our parts as a lower cost alternative may expose us to business risks. Some of our products are assembled and tested by third party subcontractors. We have used subcontractors to assemble certain of our parts as a lower cost alternative to in-house manufacturing. We review these subcontractors' references and historical manufacturing experience prior to the engagement of their services, and require oversight over their quality and assurance processes for the production of our inventory. However, if we fail to adequately or completely review the subcontractors' historical or current manufacturing processes, the quality of our parts could be subject to higher failure rate, which could adversely impact our reputation and the growth of future business with the customers as a result. We have an existing dispute with one of our subcontractors over quality matters involving assembled product, and there can be no assurance that other disputes would not arise. In some instances, we do not have long-term assembly agreements with our assembly contractors. As a result, we do not have immediate control over our product delivery schedules or product quality. Due to the amount of time often required to qualify assemblers and testers and the high cost of qualifying multiple parties for the same products, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternative third parties to assemble or test them. Any product delivery delays in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors were disrupted or terminated. We maintain a backlog of customer orders that is subject to cancellation, reduction or delay in delivery schedules, which may result in lower than expected revenue and gross profit. With certain exceptions related to products within our A&D segment, we manufacture primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or to forecast, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid changes in customer outlooks or unexpected build ups of inventory in the supply channel as a result of shifts in end-market demand generally or in the mix of that demand. Accordingly, many of these purchase orders or forecasts may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the manufacturing of products, and a specific mix of products, without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to build them could have a material adverse effect on our levels of inventory (the value of our inventory), our revenue and our operating results generally. Additionally, cancellation or significant reduction in significant customer programs, like those for next generation game station or servers, could materially affect our ability to achieve our revenue and gross profit targets. 20 We build and maintain inventory in order to meet our historic and projected needs, but cannot guarantee that our inventory will be adequate to meet our needs or will be salable at a future date. We build and maintain inventory in order to meet our historic and projected needs, but cannot guarantee that the inventory we build will be adequate or the right mix of products to meet market demand. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary materials, and build the proper mix and amount of inventory, otherwise our revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected. Additionally, if we produce or have produced inventory that does not meet current or future demand, we may determine at some point that certain of the inventory may only be sold at a discount or may not be sold at all, resulting in the reduction in the carrying value of our inventory and a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We must commit resources to product manufacturing prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. We sell products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or to forecast, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Many of these purchase orders or forecasts may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the manufacturing of products without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on our levels of inventory and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our distribution channel partners may return inventory which could negatively impact our financial results. Many of our distributors have some rights to return inventory under their stock rotation programs or may return inventory with the approval of the company or other circumstances. If these channel partners return a large amount of inventory, our operating results could be impacted by lower revenue and higher costs associated with inventory write-offs. We receive a significant portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers and distributors. Historically, a significant portion of our revenue has come from a relatively small number of customers and distributors. The loss or financial failure of any significant customer or distributor, any reduction in orders by any of our significant customers or distributors, or the cancellation of a significant order, could materially and adversely affect our business. We may fail to attract or retain the qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, and key executive officers required to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, and key executive officers. Personnel with the necessary semiconductor expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain existing key technical, sales, marketing and managerial employees, and key executive officers or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating or retaining other highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel and key executive officers in the future. Since the beginning of the Audit Committee-led Investigation, we have experienced significant turnover in some of our senior management positions. Our Board of Directors has appointed a new CEO and Acting CFO. We will need to implement procedures to ensure continuity of management in crucial areas, including the oversight of our financial reporting systems, financial controls and corporate 21 governance practices. There can be no assurance that future changes in senior management personnel will not adversely affect our efforts in this regard. Similarly, there is no assurance that we will be able to retain any of our existing key personnel, or attract, assimilate and retain the additional personnel needed to support our business. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could continue to impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have conducted an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of June 30, 2007. For a detailed description of these material weaknesses, see Part II, Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures." Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. Even with this additional work, given the material weaknesses identified, including the number of continuing manual journal entries, the lack of integrated financial systems, the significant turnover of our finance organization personnel, and use of consultants to augment our accounting staff, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected, which could result in additional restatements. In addition, it is possible that in the future other material weaknesses may be identified. All of these factors continue to increase the time and cost involved in preparing our financial statements and to undermine the credibility of such statements. We have extensive work remaining to remedy the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of developing and implementing remediation efforts for the identified material weaknesses, and this work will continue during fiscal year 2008 and after. There can be no assurance as to when the remediation plan will be fully developed, when it will be implemented and the aggregate cost of implementation. Until our remedial efforts are completed, we will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, there will also continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. We have been named as a defendant in a class action lawsuit that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We and certain of our former and current executive officers and directors are defendants in several securities class action lawsuits. These lawsuits are described in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." Our attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations by this lawsuit and we may incur significant expenses associated with the defense of this lawsuit (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify current and former officers and directors who may be parties to such action). Depending on the outcome of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay material damages and fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, our ability to meet our debt obligations and, consequently, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. 22 Continuing negative publicity may adversely affect our business. As a result of the Audit Committee-led Investigation, restatement of our financial statements and related matters as discussed herein, we have been the subject of negative publicity. This negative publicity may have an effect on the terms under which some customers, lenders, landlords and suppliers are willing to continue to do business with us and could affect our financial performance and financial condition. We also believe that certain of our employees perceive themselves to be operating under stressful conditions, which may cause them to terminate their employment or, if they remain, result in reduced morale that could adversely affect our business. Continuing negative publicity also could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential indemnification obligations and limitations of our current and former director and officer liability insurance could adversely affect us. Several of our current and former directors, officers and employees are or may become the subject of lawsuits. Under Delaware law, our charter documents and certain indemnification agreements, we may have an obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and employees and directors in relation to these matters on certain terms and conditions. Some of these indemnification obligations may not be covered by our directors' and officers' insurance policies. If we incur significant uninsured indemnity obligations, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Final outcomes from various tax audits are difficult to predict and an unfavorable resolution may negatively impact our financial results. From time to time, various taxing authorities audit our tax returns. We have identified various errors relating to our accounting for income taxes for the fiscal years 2001 through 2007. In particular, we identified errors in our intercompany transfer pricing adjustments and our accounting for certain types of foreign-earned income and distributions, deferred tax accounts, temporary differences, certain foreign currency gains and losses, and certain provisions related to tax effecting the elimination of profit-in-ending inventory. Tax authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate may choose to audit our tax returns, either as originally filed or, in some cases, as amended, and matters related to our prior intercompany transfer pricing adjustments are or may be a matter of interest in connection with an investigation by the Internal Revenue Service and/or other taxing authorities. Although we have provided for the estimated tax liabilities, which have been included in the determination of our financial results, we cannot predict with certainty whether the amount of taxes, interest and/or penalties that may be assessed by the relevant tax authorities following the completion of any such audits (or investigations) will approximate the amount we have estimated. Accordingly, unpredicted unfavorable settlements of one or more tax audits (or investigations) may require additional use of cash and may materially and adversely impact our financial position or results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed and the inter-company pricing related to those profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (including transfer pricing guidelines); changes in generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"); or the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. 23 In addition, we have made certain judgments regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS No. 109"), the carrying value of the net deferred tax assets is based on our assessment whether it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in the relevant jurisdictions to realize these deferred tax assets, after considering all available positive and negative evidence. If our assumptions and estimates change in the future given unforeseen changes in market conditions, tax laws or other factors, the valuation allowances established may be increased, resulting in increased income tax expense. Conversely, if we are ultimately able to use all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been established, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be released to reduce income tax expense or goodwill, or credit additional paid-in capital, as applicable. Our A&D segment is subject to governmental regulation that exposes us to additional risks. Our A&D segment manufactures and sells certain products that are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations. The A&D segment also manufactures and sells products that are sold directly or indirectly to the U.S. government and may subject us to certain government procurement regulations, investigations or review. While we maintain a system of control of such products and compliance with such laws and regulations, we cannot provide absolute assurance that these controls will always be effective. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of controls including the failure of human judgment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of control or are otherwise found non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, violations could lead to governmental investigations, fines, penalties and limitations on our ability to export product, all of which could have a material affect on our results. Quality control and similar standards are applicable to our facilities and the facilities of our contractors in which certain products of our A&D segment are manufactured, and these standards are subject to compliance review by certain U.S. Government agencies. Our use of third-party facilities meeting such standards is subject to negotiation of satisfactory agreements with those parties and if we cannot reach such agreements, our A&D segment may experience production constraints and its revenues may be materially reduced. Our business depends, in part, upon the efforts of third parties, which we cannot control. We rely on our collaborative partners to manufacture certain of our products. Although we believe that parties to any such arrangements would have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities may not be within our control. There can also be no assurance that these parties or any future parties will perform their obligations as expected which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may fluctuate widely in the future. Our common stock, which is traded on the NYSE, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results, earnings below analysts' estimates and financial performance and other activities of other publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent periods, our common stock, the stock market in general and the market for shares of semiconductor industry-related stocks in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any similar fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 24 In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. We can provide no assurance that our share price will remain stable on a going-forward basis. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. The semiconductor industry is capital intensive. Semiconductor manufacturing requires a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. We are also attempting to add the appropriate level and mix of capacity to meet our customers' future demand. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations, existing cash reserves and other equity or debt financings that we may obtain will be sufficient to satisfy our future capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that this will be the case or that alternative sources of capital will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. Our investments in certain securities expose us to market risks. We invest excess cash in marketable securities consisting primarily of commercial paper, corporate notes, corporate bonds, collateral-backed mortgage obligations and governmental securities. During fiscal year 2007 and later periods, we have seen a sharp decline in the value of our collateral backed mortgage obligations and certain other securities. If the negative market conditions continue we may not be able to hold these investments to maturity or may have to dispose of the investments while they are at a loss position, which could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We also hold as strategic investments the common stock of three publicly traded foreign companies, one of which is closely held. We have seen significant market fluctuations in the value of these equity investments. If we wished to dispose of certain shares of our investments during a market decline, we may be unable to dispose the shares immediately due to the illiquid nature of the investments and incur significant losses as a result. While we attempt to monitor the credit worthiness of our customers, we may from time to time be at risk due to the adverse financial condition of one or more customers. We have established procedures for the review and monitoring of the credit worthiness of our customers and/or significant amounts owing from customers. However, from time to time, we may find that, despite our efforts, one or more of our customers become insolvent or face bankruptcy proceedings (Delphi is currently one such customer). Such events could have an adverse effect on our operating results if our receivables applicable to that customer become uncollectible in whole or in part, or if our customers' financial situation result in reductions in whole or in part of our ability to continue to sell our products or services to such customers at the same levels or at all. Our continuing obligations under the transaction documents for the Divestiture could adversely affect our operating results. As part of the Divestiture, we have agreed to provide certain transition services related to the divested business and assets, including certain manufacturing, sales and marketing and administrative support services for a period of up to three years. Such services are not provided at levels of profitability commensurate with other aspects of our business and may be subject to unforeseen factors 25 or other obligations or events which could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. Additionally, we have entered into a tax matters agreement that provides, among other things, that we will indemnify Vishay against certain tax liabilities that may arise, on certain terms and conditions. Additionally, Vishay has advised us of certain claims under the transaction documents related to the Divestiture including claims regarding the adjustment of net working capital for the PCS Business claims involving chemicals found in the groundwater at our former manufacturing plant in Italy, and certain product quality claims relating to periods at or prior to the consummation of the Divestiture. Vishay has also asserted that it is considering possible claims against us in connection with certain portions of the PCS Business, among them, allegations regarding business forecasts. While we do not believe that Vishay's claims have merit and intend to defend our position vigorously, there can be no assurance that Vishay would not bring one or more additional claims. Continuing covenants could involve changes to various aspects of our business or could involve costs or additional claims, and such matters, if resolved against us, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Large potential environmental liabilities may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor manufacturing processes, and on the operation of our facilities and equipment. We believe we use reasonable efforts to maintain a system of compliance and controls for these laws and regulations. However, we cannot provide absolute assurance that these controls will always be effective or that issues with respect to these matters will not from time to time occur. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of controls including the failure of human judgment. Under some laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Under other laws, we may be subject to fines and penalties if facilities or equipment are not operated in technical compliance with permit conditions or if required reports are not timely filed with applicable agencies. Also, we may be subject to common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, we cannot assure you that changes in environmental laws or regulations will not require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Additionally, if we were to divest additional facilities, such facilities may undergo further environmental review and investigation which may lead to previously unknown environmental liabilities. Any present or prior failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to serious liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our liquidity may be subject to the availability of a credit facility upon acceptable terms and conditions. We have the $150.0 million Facility with a group of banks under which our ability to draw has been suspended pending the completion of the Audit Committee Investigation, becoming current in our financial reporting and the presence of no default. There can be no assurance that the suspension will be removed or that the credit facility will not be terminated or modified to impose more onerous terms. Our international operations expose us to material risks. We expect revenue from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenue. We maintain or contract with significant operations and equipment in foreign countries, including wafer fabrication and product assembly. Among others, the following risks are inherent in doing business internationally: changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our 26 products; trade restrictions; transportation delays; work stoppages; economic and political instability; war; terrorism, and foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, certain of our operations and products are subject to restrictions or licensing under U.S. export laws. If such laws or the implementation of these restrictions change, or if in the course of operating under such laws we become subject to claims, we cannot assure you that such factors would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, it is more difficult in some foreign countries to protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as is possible in the United States. Therefore, the risk of piracy or misuse of our technology and products may be greater in these foreign countries. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operating results as a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in the future. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, expenses, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies. For example, •some of our manufacturing costs are denominated in Japanese Yen, European Union Euro, British Pound and other foreign currencies; and •sales of our products are denominated in Japanese Yen, European Union Euro, British Pound and other foreign currencies; and •some property, plant and equipment purchases are denominated in Japanese Yen, European Union Euro, British Pound and other foreign currencies. Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our net sales and expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful in reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. Some of our facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines or high brush fire danger areas. Our corporate headquarters, one of our manufacturing facilities, one of our research facility and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. In addition, one of our major manufacturing facilities is located in a high brush fire danger area. We could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake or brush fire. Although we maintain the applicable insurance policies, we can give you no assurance that we have obtained or will maintain sufficient insurance coverage. Certain general economic and business factors not specific to the semiconductor industry that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our results of operations. We may experience a number of general economic and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include interest rates, recession, inflation, exchange rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Unfavorable changes in any of these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could increase our costs or impose practical limits on pricing, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 Our reported results can be affected adversely and unexpectedly by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Our financial reporting is subject to GAAP, and GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting, our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially, including requirements to restate historical financial reporting. Terrorist attacks, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, or threats or occurrences of other terrorist activities whether in the United States or internationally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Terrorist attacks, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, or threats or occurrences of other terrorist or related activities, whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Future terrorist or related activities could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chains and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. Such activities could affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, and make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult or cost prohibitive. Due to the broad and uncertain effects that terrorist attacks have had on financial and economic markets generally, we cannot provide any estimate of how these activities might affect our future results. Natural disasters whether in the United States or internationally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Natural disasters whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Such events could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chains, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. While we do not have facilities located near the affected areas, such activities could affect physical facilities, primarily for raw materials and process chemicals and gases of our suppliers or customers, and make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult or cost prohibitive. Due to the broad and uncertain effects that natural events have had on financial and economic markets generally, we cannot provide any estimate of how these activities might affect our future results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there are no unresolved Staff comments regarding our previously filed periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"). 28 