ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Statement of Caution Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes some statements and other information that are not historical facts but are “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The materials presented can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “may,” “should,” “view,” or “will” or the negative or other variations thereof. We caution that such statements are subject to a number of uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially. Factors that could affect our actual results include those set forth below under “Factors that May Affect Future Results” and other uncertainties disclosed in our reports filed from time to time with the SEC. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, to reflect new information, future events or otherwise. Factors That May Affect Future Results Changes in end-market demand, due to downturns or changes in the highly cyclical and volatile semiconductor industry or due to other economic factors such as significant fluctuations of oil prices, adverse impacts from financial markets, could affect our operating results and the value of our business. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and remains volatile, characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. The industry has also experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles and declines in general economic conditions. The value of our business may decline during the down portion of cycles or rapid adverse changes in demand. During fiscal years 2009, and 2008, we experienced a decline in end-market demand for our products as a result of the sharp corrections in the general economy, financial markets, housing market and the significant fluctuations of oil prices which resulted in under-utilization of our manufacturing capacity and declining revenues and gross margins. In addition, we have previously recorded significant charges to recognize impairment in the value of our manufacturing equipment, the cost to reduce workforce, and other restructuring costs under those circumstances, and could again in the future if such conditions recur. Demand recovered significantly during the second half of fiscal year 2010 and during fiscal year 2011; however; the semiconductor industry continues to be characterized by annual seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand, and our revenues and gross margin continue to be highly dependent on the level of corporate and consumer spending in various information technology and energy-saving end-market applications. As a result, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in particular quarters of our fiscal year. The industry has also been impacted by significant shifts in consumer demand due to economic downturns or other factors, which may result in diminished product demand and production overcapacity. We have experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results and expect, in the future, to continue to experience short-term period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. To the extent these market conditions persist for a prolonged period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed. In addition, we may experience significant changes in our profitability as a result of variations in sales, changes in product mix sought by customers, seasonality, price competition for orders and the costs associated with the introduction of new products and start-up of new facilities and additional capacity lines. The markets for our products depend on continued demand associated with the foreseeable product technological platforms and in the mix we plan for and produce in the information technology, consumer, industrial, HiRel and automotive markets. Changes in the demand mix, needed technologies and these end markets may adversely affect our ability to match our products, inventory and capacity to meet customer demand and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents General Economic Conditions Continue to be Uncertain and Could Adversely Affect our Business. The current global macroeconomic environment has impacted levels of consumer spending, caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets and increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and the outlook for overall macroeconomic conditions is uncertain. These macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, or financial condition in a number of ways. If consumer spending does not continue to develop or decreases, or general economic conditions deteriorate, we could experience significantly diminished demand for our products, which would materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, if the financial condition of current or potential customers or distributors is adversely affected, those parties may not pay us or may delay paying us for previously purchased products. Also, if the banking system or the financial markets deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted, and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. The semiconductor business is highly competitive and increased competition could adversely affect the price of our products and otherwise reduce the value of an investment in our Company. The semiconductor industry, including the sectors in which we do business, is highly competitive. Competition is based on a number of factors, including price, product performance, technology platform, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. Price pressures often emerge as competitors attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices or by offering a more desirable technological solution. Technology alternatives from competitors can also reduce our ability to win customer design possibilities and thereby reduce sales generally. Pricing and other competitive pressures can adversely affect our revenues and gross margin, and hence, our profitability. We also compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus they may be better able to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. New technologies could result in the development of new products and a decrease in demand for our products, and we may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand. Our failure to develop new technologies or to react to changes in existing technologies could materially delay our development of new products, which could result in decreased revenues and a loss of market share to our competitors. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the semiconductor industry. As a result, we must devote significant resources to R&D, especially with respect to our new Gallium Nitride technologies. Our financial performance depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring new products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner (including our Gallium Nitride technologies), or that products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies in our product markets or our inability to capitalize on our new Gallium Nitride technology before others, could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position within the industry. In addition, to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce die sizes and improve manufacturing yields across our product lines. We cannot assure you that we can accomplish these goals. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenues, profitability and target model goals may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our growth strategy, consisting of continued optimization of our operations and accelerating revenue growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy will sustain or improve our results of operations in the future. 11 Table of Contents If the demand for our products or a particular mix of our products increases faster than we anticipate or are able to produce, we may not be able to satisfy the demand with our planned available capacity, which could limit our revenue growth potential and expose us to loss of design and sale opportunities, and potential liability. We have experienced a significant increase in demand during fiscal year 2011, and as a result our lead times for many of our products have increased and we have had challenges being able to meet the demand, especially for particular product lines. The markets in which we operate are very cyclical and subject to large swings in demand. We attempt to install internal or external capacity to meet our demand forecast and our customer demands for particular products. However, since additional capacity can take up to six months or more to install, if the demand for our products or a particular mix of our products increases at a rate faster than we anticipate or are able to produce, we may not be able to increase our internal and external manufacturing capacity fast enough to satisfy the higher demand. As a result, our revenue growth may be limited by manufacturing capacity constraints available to us. We have also had delays and may experience future delays in the shipment of certain of our products to customers. To the extent we are not able to satisfy customer demands timely or otherwise, we may risk the loss of design and sales opportunities which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent we are not able to satisfy our contractual obligations to fulfill products, we may be subject to potential claims. While we would defend ourselves vigorously against any such claims, large claims, if found meritorious, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Delays in initiation of new production at our more advanced facilities or at third party manufacturers, implementing new production processes or resolving problems associated with technical equipment availability or malfunctions could adversely affect our manufacturing capacity and efficiencies. Our manufacturing capacity and efficiency will be important factors in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase our manufacturing capacity and efficiency to the same extent as our competitors or sufficiently to meet available demand. Our manufacturing processes are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and are continuously being modified in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities, defects or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Additionally, our strategy for increased capacity includes the greater use of third party manufacturers for wafer and product assembly. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have at times experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities or third party manufacturers, or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes or new locations. As a consequence, we have experienced delays in our ability to increase capacities, delays in product deliveries and reduced yields. Additionally, from time to time, there are market restraints on the ability to obtain, whether because of the expansion of lead times or availability, necessary equipment from third party equipment manufacturers to allow for timely increase our capacity as planned or needed. Additionally, we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, experience product delivery delays, and/or quality issues in the future, as a result of, and among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, delays in upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies or qualifying third party manufacturers to produce our products, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or our inability to meet customer demands. Also, our operating results have in the past and in the future would be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity if revenue does not increase proportionately. Our ongoing protection and reliance on our IP assets expose us to risks. We have traditionally relied on our patents and proprietary technologies for protection of the products we sell and for licensing revenues. Enforcement of our IP rights is costly, risky and time consuming. We cannot assure you that we can successfully continue to protect our IP rights, especially in foreign markets. Most of our MOSFET patents, including our broadest, have expired. With the expiration of most of our MOSFET patents, most of our royalty revenues ceased during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008; however, from time to time, we continue to enter into opportunistic licensing arrangements that we believe are consistent with our business strategy, although our royalty income levels are substantially lower than in prior years. What royalty income we obtain is largely dependent on the following factors: remaining coverage under unexpired MOSFET patents; the continuing introduction and acceptance of products that are not covered by our patents; the defensibility and enforceability of our patents; changes in our licensees’ unit sales, prices or die sizes; market conditions and mix of products sold by licensees; the terms, if any, upon which expiring license agreements are renegotiated; and our ability to obtain revenues from new licensing opportunities. 12 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that we can obtain new licenses to produce royalties or that we will continue to receive royalties from existing licenses. While we try to predict the effects of these factors and efforts, often there are variations or factors that can significantly affect results different from that predicted. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that our predictions of our IP segment revenues will be consistent with actual results, nor can we guarantee the level of our future royalty income. Decreases in our royalty income could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to obtain or maintain the right to use certain technologies expose us to risks and could negatively affect our financial results. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain or maintain certain proprietary technologies used in our principal products or in products we develop. Our ability to maintain such technologies is achieved in part by defending and maintaining the validity of our patents and defending claims brought by our competitors and other third parties of IP infringement, and at times by asserting IP claims against third parties. We have asserted IP claims against others and we could become subject to other lawsuits in which it is alleged that we have infringed upon the IP rights of others. We also license certain patents and other technologies owned by others. Our involvement in existing and future IP litigation could result in significant expense, adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technologies and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. If any such infringements exist, arise or are claimed in the future against us, we may be exposed to substantial liability for damages and may need to obtain licenses from the patent or other technology owners, discontinue, change our processes or products, or expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies. For licenses we have, our ability to continue to use such technologies depends on our ability to maintain such licenses. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in such efforts or that such licenses would be available under reasonable terms or that we would be successful in our claims against third parties. Our failure to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies or to obtain licenses on acceptable terms, the occurrence of litigation itself or our failure to be successful in litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If some OEMs do not design our products into their equipment or if we do not convert design or program wins to actual sales, for whatever reasons, a portion of our revenues may be adversely affected. A “design-win” or program award from a customer does not guarantee that the design or program win will become future sales to that customer. We also are unable to guarantee that we will be able to convert these design or program wins, or any wins, into sales for the life of any particular program, or at all, or that the revenues from such wins would be significant. We also cannot guarantee that we will achieve the same level of design or program wins as we have in the past, or at all. Without design or program wins from OEMs, we would only be able to sell our products to these OEMs as a second source, if at all. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductor into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to achieve future design or program wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design or program win with a customer also does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Accordingly, if OEMs do not design our products into their equipment or if we do not convert design or program wins to actual sales, for whatever reasons, our revenues may be materially adversely affected. Third party interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting our materials, parts or equipment may impair our competitive position and our operations. Our manufacturing operations depend upon obtaining adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment, including among other things, silicon, mold compounds, lead frames and assembly equipment, on a timely basis from third parties. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we were unable to obtain adequate supplies of materials, parts and equipment in a timely manner from our third party suppliers or if the costs of materials, parts or equipment increase significantly. From time to time, suppliers may discontinue products, extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints, market conditions or other factors. For example, we have experienced material cost increases for commodity metals that are included in materials used in our manufacturing processes, and the future cost of these materials remains uncertain. Additionally, we have a limited number of suppliers or sole suppliers for some materials, parts and equipment, and any interruption could materially impair our operations, our revenues, and adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand, and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Interruptions, delays or cost increases at our key facilities may impair our competitive position and our operations. We manufacture a substantial portion of our wafer product at our Temecula, California and Newport, Wales facilities. Any disruption of operations at those facilities, whether as a result of equipment malfunction or maintenance needs, natural and man-made disasters, or other effects could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues, meet customer demand and otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our decision to implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) software platform has been subject to some delay, could be subject to further delays, may cost more than expected and could interrupt operational transactions during the implementation. We have previously announced a plan to implement SAP’s enterprise resource planning software, as well as related enhancements to our integrated financial and supply chain management systems. This process is complex, time-consuming and expensive. Operational disruptions during the course of this process or delays in the implementation of these enhancements could materially impact our operations. Our ability to forecast sales demand, ship products, manage our product inventory and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis could be impaired while we are making these enhancements. We have already experienced some delay in the implementation of the ERP system and there is no guarantee that other delays will not take place. Further changes in scope, timeline or cost could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. Our products may be found to be defective and, as a result, product claims may be asserted against us, which may harm our business and our reputation with our customers and materially adversely affect our results and financial condition. Our products are typically sold at prices that are significantly lower than the cost of the equipment or other goods in which they are incorporated. Although we maintain quality control systems, we ship large quantities of semiconductor products to a wide range of customers around the world, for use in a variety of high profile and critical applications. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive claims that some of these products are defective or that do not perform to published or agreed specifications. Since a defect or failure in our products could give rise to failures in the end products that incorporate them (and potential consequential claims for damages against our customers from their customers depending on applicable law and contract), we often need to defend against claims for damages that are disproportionate to the revenues and profit we receive from the products involved. In addition, our ability to reduce such liabilities may be limited by the laws or the customary business practices of the countries where we do business. Even in cases where we do not believe we have legal liability for such claims, we may choose to pay for them to retain a customer’s business or goodwill or to settle claims to avoid protracted litigation. Our results of operations and business would be adversely affected as a result of significant alleged quality or performance issues in our products, or if we are required or choose to pay for the damages that result. Although we currently have product liability and other types of insurance, we have certain deductibles and exclusions to such policies and may not have sufficient insurance coverage. We also may not have sufficient resources to satisfy all possible product liability or other types of product claims. In addition, in our HiRel segment, we are sometimes subject to government procurement regulations and other laws that could result in costly investigations and other legal proceedings as a consequence of allegedly defective products or other actions. Any perception that our products are defective would likely result in reduced sales of our products, loss of customers and harm to our business and reputation. Our reliance on third party contractors to fabricate semiconductor wafers and to assemble certain of our parts as a lower cost alternative may expose us to business risks. Some of our semiconductor wafer is fabricated by third party contractors and some of our products are assembled and tested by third party contractors. We have used these contractors as a lower cost alternative to in-house manufacturing, and to increase our capacity flexibility. We review these contractors’ references, and historical manufacturing experience prior to the engagement of their services, and require oversight over their quality assurance processes. However, if we fail to adequately or completely review the contractors’ historical or current manufacturing processes, or if the contractors do not perform as needed, the quality of our parts could be subject to higher failure rate, which could adversely impact our reputation and the growth of future business with the customers as a result. 14 Table of Contents We have an existing dispute with one of our contractors over quality matters involving assembled product and commercial disputes with others, and there can be no assurance that other disputes will not arise. In some instances, we do not have long-term agreements with our contractors. As a result, we do not have immediate control over our product delivery schedules or product quality. Due to the amount of time often required to qualify contractors, assemblers and testers and the high cost of qualifying multiple parties for the same products, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternative third parties to fabricate wafers, or to assemble or test product. Any delivery delays from contractors in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these contractors were disrupted or terminated. Our business depends, in part, upon the efforts of third parties, which we cannot control. We rely on contractors to manufacture certain of our products. Although we believe that parties to any such arrangements would have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities may not be within our control. There can also be no assurance that these parties or any future parties will perform their obligations as expected which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain a backlog of customer orders that is subject to cancellation, reduction or delay in delivery schedules, which may result in lower than expected revenues and gross margin. With certain exceptions related to products within our HiRel segment, we manufacture primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or to forecast, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid changes in customer outlooks or unexpected build ups of inventory in the supply channel as a result of shifts in end-market demand generally or in the mix of that demand. Accordingly, many of these purchase orders or forecasts may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the manufacturing of products, and a specific mix of products, without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to build them could have a material adverse effect on our levels of inventory (the value of our inventory), our revenues and our operating results generally. Additionally, cancellation or significant reduction in significant customer programs, like those for next generation servers, could materially affect our ability to achieve our revenues and gross margin targets. We build and maintain inventory in order to meet our historic and projected needs, but cannot guarantee that our inventory will be adequate to meet market demand, commitments to customers or will be salable at a future date. We build and maintain inventory in order to meet our historic and projected needs, but cannot guarantee that the inventory we build will be adequate or the right mix of products to meet market demand. It is very important that we accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead times required to obtain the necessary materials, and build the proper mix and amount of inventory, otherwise our revenues and gross margin may be adversely affected, and we may not be able to meet our customer commitments for deliveries of product. To the extent we have made commitments to customers, and do not satisfy those commitments, we may be exposed to claims for damages. Additionally, if we produce or have produced inventory that does not meet current or future demand, we may determine at some point that certain of the inventory may only be sold at a discount or may not be sold at all, resulting in the reduction in the carrying value of our inventory and a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We must commit resources to product manufacturing prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment. We sell products primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery or to forecast, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. Many of these purchase orders or forecasts may be revised or canceled without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the manufacturing of products without any advance purchase commitments from customers. Our inability to sell products after we devote significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on our levels of inventory and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our distribution channel partners may return inventory which could negatively impact our financial results. Many of our distributors have some rights to return inventory under their stock rotation programs or may return inventory with our approval or under other circumstances. In addition, we have, from time to time, accepted, and may in the future accept, additional returns. If these distributors return a large amount of inventory, our operating results could be impacted by lower revenues and higher costs associated with inventory write-offs. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of customers and distributors. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues has come from a relatively small number of customers and distributors. The loss or financial failure of any significant customer or distributor, any reduction in orders by any of our significant customers or distributors, or the cancellation of a significant order, could materially and adversely affect our business. We may fail to attract or retain the qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, and key executive officers required to operate our business successfully. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, sales, marketing and managerial personnel, and key executive officers. Personnel with the necessary semiconductor expertise are scarce and competition for personnel with these skills is intense. While we try to ensure continuity of management in crucial areas we cannot guaranty that these efforts will be successful in all crucial areas including the oversight of our financial reporting systems, financial controls and corporate governance practices. Similarly, there is no assurance that we will be able to retain any of our existing key personnel, or attract, assimilate and retain the additional personnel needed to support our business. If we are unable to retain existing key employees or are unsuccessful in attracting new highly qualified employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner may be adversely impacted which may result in a material weakness or a material misstatement which may result in considerable additional expense, negatively impact investor confidence and adversely impact the price of our common stock. As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to conduct an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In certain prior years, we had previously determined that we had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. While these material weaknesses have been remediated, there is no assurance that we would not have additional material weaknesses in the future. Each material weakness results from a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely manner. To the extent we have material weaknesses, we must perform extensive additional work, at considerable additional expense, to obtain reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, it is possible that in the future, as a result of our assessment of our internal control that we may identify material weaknesses and be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of investor confidence in our internal controls. The failure to remediate any such potential material weaknesses in a timely manner may cause us to fail to complete our periodic filing requirements in a timely manner. 16 Table of Contents We have previously been named as a defendant in lawsuits and may in the future be named as defendant in other lawsuits that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Previously we and certain of our former executive officers and current and former directors had been named as defendants in several securities class action, derivative and other lawsuits, and had been subject to investigations by governmental agencies. While we have reached agreements to settle certain of these lawsuits and others have been dismissed, other lawsuits and proceedings remain. Certain of these lawsuits that continue through the date of this report are described in Note 14, “Litigation,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8. There can be no assurance that we would not be subject to additional lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the future. For any such current or future lawsuits and proceedings, our attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations and we may incur significant expenses associated with defense (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify current and former officers and directors who may be parties to or involved in such action or proceeding). Depending on the outcome of these lawsuits and proceedings, we may also be required to pay material damages and fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, our ability to meet our debt obligations and, consequently, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed and the intercompany pricing related to those profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws (including transfer pricing guidelines); changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”); or the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings against which we have not previously provided U.S. taxes. In addition, we have made certain judgments regarding the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In accordance with GAAP the carrying value of the net deferred tax assets is based on our assessment whether it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in the relevant jurisdictions to realize these deferred tax assets, after considering all available positive and negative evidence. If our assumptions and estimates change in the future given unforeseen changes in market conditions, tax laws or other factors, valuation allowances may be recorded or increased, resulting in increased income tax expense. Conversely, if we are ultimately able to use all or a portion of the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance has been established, the related portion of the valuation allowance will be released to reduce income tax expense, or credit additional paid-in capital or other comprehensive income, as applicable. Our HiRel segment is subject to governmental regulation and procurement processes that expose us to additional risks. Our HiRel segment manufactures and sells certain products that are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations. The HiRel segment also manufactures and sells products that are sold indirectly to the U.S. government and may subject us to certain government procurement regulations, investigations or review. While we maintain a system of controls of such products and for compliance with such laws and regulations, we cannot provide assurance that these controls will be effective. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of controls, including the failure of human judgment. If we fail to maintain an effective system of controls or are otherwise found non-compliant with applicable laws and regulations, violations could lead to governmental investigations, fines, penalties and limitations on our ability to export product from the U.S., all of which could have a material effect on our financial results. Quality control and similar standards are applicable to our facilities and the facilities of our contractors in which certain products of our HiRel segment are manufactured, and these standards are subject to compliance review by certain U.S. Government agencies. Our use of third-party facilities meeting such standards is subject to negotiation of satisfactory agreements with those parties and if we cannot reach such agreements, our HiRel segment may experience production constraints and its revenues may be materially reduced. 17 Table of Contents In addition, certain of the products that our HiRel segment sells are either directly or indirectly subject to governmental regulation regarding its use or governmental procurement processes where restrictions on use, quantities of purchase and product programs can vary from time to time outside of the control of the Company. To the extent governmental regulation, or changes therein, or procurement decision making, are not favorable to the Company, the results of our HiRel segment may be materially adversely affected. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may fluctuate widely in the future. Our common stock, which is traded on the NYSE, has experienced and may continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that could adversely affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. In addition, we believe that factors such as quarterly fluctuations in financial results, earnings below analysts’ estimates and financial performance and other activities of other publicly traded companies in the semiconductor industry could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent periods, our common stock, the stock market in general and the market for shares of semiconductor industry-related stocks in particular have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Any similar fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. We can provide no assurance that our share price will remain stable on a going-forward basis or that we would not be subject to stockholder claims in this regard. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. The semiconductor industry is capital intensive. Semiconductor manufacturing requires a regular upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment, especially for new technologies we develop, including without limitation, our Gallium Nitride technologies. We are also attempting to add the appropriate level and mix of capacity to meet our customers’ future demand. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient capital resources to make necessary investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations, existing cash reserves and other equity or debt financings that we may obtain will be sufficient to satisfy our future capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that this will be the case or that alternative sources of capital or credit will be available to us on favorable terms or at all. While we attempt to monitor the credit worthiness of our customers, we may from time to time be at risk due to the adverse financial condition of one or more customers. We have established procedures for the review and monitoring of the credit worthiness of our customers and/or significant amounts owing from customers. Despite our monitoring and procedures, from time to time, especially in the current macroeconomic situation, we may find that, despite our efforts, one or more of our customers become insolvent or face bankruptcy proceedings. Such events could have an adverse effect on our operating results if our receivables applicable to that customer become uncollectible in whole or in part, or if our customers’ financial situation result in reductions in whole or in part of our ability to continue to sell our products or services to such customers at the same levels or at all. Large potential environmental liabilities or costs of compliance may adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor manufacturing processes, and on the operation of our facilities and equipment. We believe we use reasonable efforts to maintain a system of compliance and controls for these laws and regulations. However, we cannot provide assurance that these controls will be effective or that issues with respect to these matters will not from time to time occur. There are also inherent limitations on the effectiveness of controls, including the failure of human judgment. 18 Table of Contents Under some laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Under other laws, we may be subject to fines and penalties if facilities or equipment are not operated in technical compliance with permit conditions or if required reports are not timely filed with applicable agencies. Also, we may be subject to common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. We have been subject to claims of governmental authorities and other third parties, and may continue to be in the future (See Note 12, “Environmental Matters”, to our Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8). Further, we cannot assure you that changes in environmental laws or regulations will not require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Additionally, if we were to divest additional facilities, such facilities may undergo further environmental review and investigation which may lead to previously unknown environmental liabilities. While we intend to defend against any claim of liability in this area vigorously, any claim against us in this regard if resolved unfavorably, or any present or future failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations, could subject us to serious liabilities and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to material risks, including risks under U.S. export laws. We expect revenues from foreign markets to continue to represent a significant portion of total revenues. We maintain or contract with significant operations and equipment in foreign countries, including wafer fabrication, product assembly and testing. Among others, the following risks are inherent in doing business internationally: changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including tax laws in the United States and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products; trade restrictions; transportation delays; work stoppages; economic and political instability; crime; kidnapping; war; terrorism; and foreign currency fluctuations. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions where we use third party contractors, the legal systems do not provide effective remedies to us when the contractor has breached its obligation or otherwise fails to perform. In addition, certain of our operations and products are subject to restrictions or licensing under U.S. export laws. If such laws or the implementation of these restrictions change, or if in the course of operating under such laws we become subject to claims, we cannot assure you that such factors would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, it is more difficult in some foreign countries to protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as is possible in the United States. Therefore, the risk of piracy or misuse of our technology and products may be greater in these foreign countries. Although we have not experienced any material adverse effect on our operating results as a result of these and other factors, we cannot assure you that such factors will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results in the future. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect us. As a result of our foreign operations, we have sales, expenses, assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies. For example, • some of our manufacturing costs are denominated in British Pound, Mexican Peso and other foreign currencies; and • sales of our products are denominated in European Union Euro, Japanese Yen and other foreign currencies; and • some property, plant and equipment purchases are denominated in Japanese Yen, European Union Euro, British Pound and other foreign currencies. Consequently, movements in exchange rates could cause our net sales and expenses to fluctuate, affecting our profitability and cash flows. We use foreign currency forward contracts to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating results. We do not use these contracts for speculative or trading purposes. We cannot assure you that these activities will be successful in reducing our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Some of our facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines, flood zones or high brush fire danger areas. Our corporate headquarters, one of our manufacturing facilities, one of our key research facilities, one of key third party foundries and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. In addition, one of our major manufacturing facilities is located in a high brush fire danger area. Another major manufacturing facility is potentially susceptible to flood risk. Some of these facilities have been affected by earthquakes and brush fires in the past and may again be in the future. We could be materially and adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake, flood or brush fire. Although we maintain insurance policies, we can give you no assurance that we have obtained or will maintain sufficient insurance coverage at levels and with such deductibles and limitations that would prevent a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. Certain general economic, regulatory and business factors not specific to the semiconductor industry that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our results of operations. We may be affected by a number of general economic and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include interest rates, recession, inflation, exchange rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, health care costs and governmental policy, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Unfavorable changes in any of these factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could increase our costs or impose practical limits on pricing, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our reported results can be affected adversely and unexpectedly by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Our financial reporting is subject to GAAP, and GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting, our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially, including requirements to restate historical financial reporting. Terrorist attacks, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, or threats or occurrences of other terrorist activities whether in the United States or internationally may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Terrorist attacks, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, or threats or occurrences of other terrorist or related activities, whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Future terrorist or related activities could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chains and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. Such activities could affect our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, and make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult or cost prohibitive. Due to the broad and uncertain effects that terrorist attacks have had on financial and economic markets generally, we cannot provide any estimate of how these activities might affect our future results. Natural disasters, whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate and our profitability. Natural disasters, whether in the United States or internationally, may affect the markets in which our common stock trades, the markets in which we operate, our ability to achieve revenues and our profitability. In the past, our operations have been affected by a number of natural disasters, including, among other things, earthquakes, fires, volcanoes, hurricanes, and inclement weather, and may be affected by additional natural disasters in the future. Additionally, such events could delay or result in cancellation of domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chains, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products timely if at all. Such events could affect physical facilities, including without limitation, the facilities where we or our contractors or vendors produce materials and products (whether finished goods or raw materials and process chemicals and gases). Such events could also make transportation of our supplies and products more difficult or cost prohibitive. Additionally, to the extent we may not be able to satisfy contractual obligations, we may be subject to potential claims. Due to the broad and uncertain effects that natural events could have on our company, we cannot provide an estimate of how these activities might adversely affect our future results; however, the effects could be material. 20 Table of Contents We have substantial sales to customers headquartered in Japan or related to Japanese businesses and should disruptions in the manufacturing or purchasing operations of such customers take place, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Although we have no manufacturing operations in Japan, we have substantial sales operations in Japan and we have many customers located in Japan or whose operations are related to the effects on Japanese businesses. Should fluctuations in the manufacturing or purchasing operations of our customers take place because of the events in Japan there could be a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operation and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there are no unresolved Staff comments regarding our previously filed periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. 