D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. We will be required to raise additional capital to mine our properties. The Company is currently focusing on further defining an effective plan to mine its San Gonzalo ore body. Although the Company is presently carrying on mining operations at the San Gonzalo mine, the Company will still be required to raise capital to further develop the San Gonzalo mine. Our ability to raise funds will depend on several factors, including, but not limited to, current economic conditions, our perceived value for our properties, our prospects, metal prices, businesses competing for financing and our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise funds, or to raise funds on commercially reasonable terms. Historically, the Company has raised funds through equity financing and the exercise of options and warrants. The raising of capital may have a dilutive effect on the Company’s per share book value. We have only recently become profitable and no assurances can be given we will continue to be profitable in the future. We began production at the San Gonzalo mine during the fourth quarter of 2012, and for the year ended December 31, 2013, we earned net income of CDN$848,212. Prior to the 2013 fiscal year, we had not been profitable. There is no assurance that our operations will continue to be profitable in the future. As of December 31, 2013, our internal controls over financial reporting were ineffective, and if we continue to fail to improve such controls and procedures, investors could lose confidence in our financial and other reports, the price of our shares of common stock may decline, and we may be subject to increased risks and liabilities. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual reports with respect to our business and financial condition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we include a report of our management on our internal control over financial reporting. We are also required to include certifications of our management regarding the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our management has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were ineffective due to the following material weaknesses: (i) inadequate segregation of duties and effective risk assessment; (ii) insufficient written policies and procedures for accounting, financial reporting and corporate governance; and (iii) insufficient disaster recovery plans. To remediate such weaknesses, we plan to implement the following changes: (i) address inadequate segregation of duties and ineffective risk management; (ii) adopt sufficient written policies and procedures for accounting, financial reporting and corporate governance; and (iii) implement a disaster recovery plan. If we cannot effectively and efficiently improve our controls and procedures, we could suffer material misstatements in our financial statements and other information we report and fail to meet our reporting obligations, which would likely cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information. This could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common shares. 9 We have no proven or probable reserves and our decision to commence production at levels intended by management was not based on a study demonstrating economic recovery of any mineral reserves and is therefore inherently risky. We have not established the presence of any proven or probable mineral reserves, as defined by the SEC, at any of our properties. Under Guide 7, the SEC has defined a “reserve” as that part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Any mineralized material discovered or produced by us should not be considered proven or probable reserves. In order to demonstrate the existence of proven or probable reserves, it would be necessary for us to perform additional exploration to demonstrate the existence of sufficient mineralized material with satisfactory continuity and obtain a positive feasibility study which demonstrates with reasonable certainty that the deposit can be economically and legally extracted and produced. We have not completed a feasibility study with regard to all or a portion of any of our properties to date. Since we commenced production of mineralized material at levels intended by management of mineralized material at the San Gonzalo Mine without a feasibility study, there is inherent uncertainty as to whether the mineralized material can be economically produced or if so, for what period of time. The absence of proven or probable reserves makes it more likely that our properties may cease to be profitable and that the money we spend on exploration and development may never be recovered. We decided to begin production at the San Gonzalo Mine without preparing a pre-feasibility study or bankable feasibility study which may subject us to more risks. We decided to begin production at the San Gonzalo Mine without preparing a pre-feasibility study or bankable feasibility study which is a more common practice within the mining industry and therefore may subject us to more business risks. Our decision to begin production at the San Gonzalo Mine was based on limited prior historical information, bulk sample drilling programs, small pilot plant and bench scale testing. Therefore our decision to begin production at the San Gonzalo Mine was based on limited information which may or may not be representative of information regarding the mine had we otherwise prepared a more comprehensive study. In addition, basing our decision to begin production on limited information may make us susceptible to risks including: · certain difficulties in obtaining expected metallurgical recoveries when scaling up to production scale from pilot plant scale; · the preliminary nature of mine plans and processing concepts and applying them to full scale production; · determining operating/capital costs estimates and possible variances associated with constructing, commissioning and operating the San Gonzalo facilities based on limited information; · that metallurgical flow sheets and recoveries are in development and may not be representative of results of the San Gonzalo Mine; and · that we may underestimate capital and operating costs without a comprehensive bankable feasibility study. The mining industry is highly speculative and involves substantial risks. Even when mining is conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineral deposits it is generally accepted in the mining industry that most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of mineable deposits of ore that can be extracted in a commercially economic manner. There may be limited availability of water, which is essential to milling operations, and interruptions may be caused by adverse weather conditions. Operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls. Mining activities are subject to substantial operating hazards, some of which are not insurable or may not be insured for economic reasons. 10 The commercial quantities of ore cannot be accurately predicted. Whether an ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors including the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as minerals prices and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in a mineral deposit being unprofitable. There are no assurances that we can produce minerals on a commercially viable basis. The Company’s ability to generate revenue and profit is expected to occur through exploration of its existing properties as well as through acquisitions of interests in new properties. Substantial expenditures will be incurred in an attempt to establish the economic feasibility of mining operations by identifying mineral deposits and establishing ore reserves through drilling and other techniques, developing metallurgical processes to extract metals from ore, designing facilities and planning mining operations. The economic feasibility of a project depends on numerous factors, including the cost of mining and production facilities required to extract the desired minerals, the total mineral deposits that can be mined using a given facility, the proximity of the mineral deposits to refining facilities, and the market price of the minerals at the time of sale. There is no assurance that existing or future exploration programs or acquisitions will result in the identification of deposits that can be mined profitably. Mining operations and exploration activities are subject to various federal, provincial and local laws and regulations. Laws and regulations govern the development, mining, production, importing and exporting of minerals, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, toxic substances, and other matters. In many cases, licenses and permits are required to conduct mining operations. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation thereof could have a substantial adverse impact on the Company. Applicable laws and regulations will require the Company to make certain capital and operating expenditures to initiate new operations. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to close an operation once it is started until a particular problem is remedied or to undertake other remedial actions. Operating hazards and risks. The operation and development of a mine or mineral property involves many risks which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. These risks include: · environmental hazards; · industrial accidents and explosions; · the encountering of unusual or unexpected geological formations; · ground fall and cave-ins; · flooding; · earthquakes; and · periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These occurrences could result in environmental damage and liabilities, work stoppages and delayed production, increased production costs, damage to, or destruction of, exploration and evaluation assets or production facilities, personal injury or death, asset write downs, monetary losses and other liabilities. Liabilities that the Company incurs may exceed the policy limits of its insurance coverage or may not be insurable, in which event the Company could incur significant costs that could adversely impact its business, operations or profitability. Metals market prices are highly speculative and volatile. The market price for metals is highly speculative and volatile. Instability and a potential decrease in metal prices such as silver will adversely our revenues, the operation of our mining properties and the further development of and production from such properties. 11 We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”) and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees; however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The validity of the title to our mining properties may be challenged. The validity of mining or exploration titles or claims or rights, which constitute most of our property holdings, can be uncertain and may be contested. We have used our reasonable commercial efforts to investigate title or claims to our various properties, however, no assurance can be given that applicable governments will not revoke or significantly alter the conditions of the applicable exploration and mining titles or claims and that such exploration and mining titles or claims will not be challenged or impugned by third parties. We operate in countries with developing mining laws and changes in such laws could materially impact our rights to our various properties or interests therein. Although we have obtained title opinions for our material properties, there is no guarantee that title to such properties will not be challenged or impugned. Our properties may be subject to prior unregistered liens, agreements or transfers, native land claims or undetected title defects. In Mexico legal rights applicable to mining concessions are different and separate from legal rights applicable to surface lands; accordingly, title holders of mining concessions must agree with surface land owners on compensation in respect of mining activities conducted on such land. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on your investment in our common shares must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common shares. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future and, therefore, any return on your investment in our common shares must come from increases in the fair market value and trading price of our common shares. Certain provisions of organizational documents may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders may consider in their best interests, which could negatively affect our stock price. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation (“Articles”) may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company or deterring tender offers for our common shares that other shareholders may consider in their best interests. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill,” which has the effect of making it more difficult for a person to acquire control of our company in a transaction which is not a “Permitted Bid” (as defined therein), or not approved by our board of directors. Our Articles authorize us to issue an unlimited number of common shares. Shareholder approval is not necessary to issue our common shares. Issuance of these common shares could have the effect of making it more difficult and more expensive for a person or group to acquire control of us, and could effectively be used as an anti-takeover device. Our Articles provide for an advance notice procedure for shareholders to nominate director candidates for election or to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors, and require that special meetings of shareholders be called by the board or shareholders who hold at least 5% of the total issued and outstanding shares. Competition for mineral land. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for acquisition, claim staking or leasing in the areas where the Company contemplates expanding its operations and conducting exploration activities. Many participants are engaged in the mining business, including large, established mining companies. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully for new mining properties. 12 Uncertainty of exploration and development programs. The Company’s profitability is significantly affected by the costs and results of its exploration and development programs. As mines have limited lives, the Company actively seeks to expand its mineral resources, primarily through exploration, development and strategic acquisitions. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Among the many uncertainties inherent in any silver and gold exploration and development program are the location of economic ore bodies, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities. Assuming the discovery of an economic deposit, depending on the type of mining operation involved, several years may elapse from the initial phases of drilling until commercial operations are commenced and, during such time, the economic feasibility of production may change. Accordingly, the Company’s exploration and development programs may not result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral resources to expand current mineral resources. Licenses and permits. The operations of the Company require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. The Company believes that it holds all necessary licenses and permits under applicable laws and regulations and believes that it is presently complying in all material respects with the terms of such licenses and permits. However, such licenses and permits are subject to change in various circumstances. There can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary licenses and permits as are required to explore and develop its properties, commence construction or operation of mining facilities and properties under exploration or development or to maintain continued operations that economically justify the cost. Political or economic instability or unexpected regulatory change. Certain of our properties are located in countries, provinces and states more likely to be subject to political and economic instability, or unexpected legislative change, than is usually the case in certain other countries, provinces and states. Our mineral exploration activities could be adversely effected by: · political instability and violence; · war and civil disturbances; · expropriation or nationalization; · changing fiscal regimes; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; · high rates of inflation; · underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure; · changes in the regulatory environment governing exploration and evaluation assets ; and · unenforceability of contractual rights, any of which may adversely affect our business in that country. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We maintain our bank accounts mainly in Canadian and U.S. Dollars. Any appreciation in the currency of Mexico or other countries where we may carry out exploration activities against the Canadian or U.S. Dollar will increase our costs of carrying out operations in such countries. In addition, any decrease in the U.S. Dollar against the Canadian Dollar will result in a loss on our financial statements to the extent we hold funds in U.S. Dollars. Land reclamation requirements. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize the long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents and reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our mineral exploration we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration programs. 13 Acquisitions the Company may undertake may change our business or expose us to risks. The Company undertakes evaluations of opportunities to acquire additional silver and gold mining properties. Any resultant acquisitions may be significant in size, may change the scale of the Company’s business, and may expose the Company to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. The Company’s success in its acquisition activities depends on its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire them on acceptable terms, and integrate their operations successfully. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks, such as a significant decline in the price of silver or gold, the ore body proving to be below expectations, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, the potential disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company through the successful integration of acquired assets and businesses, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, the impairment of relationships with customers and contractors as a result of any integration of new management personnel and the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired mining properties. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. Conflicts of interest. Certain directors and officers of the Company are officers and/or directors of, or are associated with, other natural resource companies that acquire interests in exploration and evaluation assets. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. The directors are required by law, however, to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and to disclose any personal interest which they may have in any material transaction which is proposed to be entered into with the Company and to abstain from voting as a director for the approval of any such transaction. Dependence on management. We are dependent on the services of key executives including our President and Chief Executive Officer and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on advancing our corporate objectives as well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to our relatively small size, the loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees required for our activities may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Competition for recruitment and retention of qualified personnel. We compete with other exploration companies, many of which have greater financial resources than us or are further in their development, for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is highly cyclical and can quickly become very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs and supplies. If we require and are unsuccessful in acquiring additional personnel or other exploration resources, we will not be able to grow at the rate we desire or at all. Limited and volatile trading volume. Although the Company’s common shares are listed on the NYSE MKT, the TSX Venture Exchange, referred to as the “TSX-V”, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, referred to as the “FSE”, and the Berlin Stock Exchange, the volume of trading has been limited and volatile in the past and is likely to continue to be so in the future, reducing the liquidity of an investment in the Company’s common shares and making it difficult for investors to readily sell their common shares in the open market. Without a liquid market for the Company’s common shares, investors may be unable to sell their shares at favorable times and prices and may be required to hold their shares in declining markets or to sell them at unfavorable prices. 14 Volatility of share price. In recent years, securities markets in general have experienced a high level of price volatility. The market price of many resource companies, particularly those, like the Company, that are considered speculative exploration companies, have experienced wide fluctuations in price, resulting in substantial losses to investors who have sold their shares at a low price point. These fluctuations are based only in part on the level of progress of exploration, and can reflect general economic and market trends, world events or investor sentiment, and may sometimes bear no apparent relation to any objective factors or criteria. Significant fluctuation in the Company’s common share price is likely to continue. Difficulty for United States investors to effect services of process against the Company. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Consequently, it will be difficult for United States investors to affect service of process in the United States upon the directors or officers of the Company, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the Exchange Act. The majority of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of Canada and all of the Company’s assets are located outside of the United States. A judgment of a United States court predicated solely upon such civil liabilities would probably be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. 