D. Risk Factors In addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report, the following should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report. 8 We will be required to raise additional capital to mine our properties. The Company is currently in the exploration stage of its properties. If the Company determines based on its most recent information that it is feasible to begin operations on its properties, the Company will be required to raise additional capital in order to develop and bring the properties into production. Our ability to raise funds will depend on several factors, including, but not limited to, current economic conditions, our properties, our prospects, metal prices, businesses competing for financing and our financial condition. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise funds, or to raise funds on commercially reasonable terms. We have incurred net losses since our inception and expect losses to continue. We have not been profitable since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we had a net loss of $1,538,876 and an accumulated deficit on December 31, 2008 of $23,182,925. The Company has not generated revenues from operations since 2001and does not expect to generate revenues from operations until one or more of its properties are placed in production. There is no assurance that any of the Company’s properties will be placed in production or that the Company’s operations will be profitable in the future. The mining industry is highly speculative and involves substantial risks. Even when mining is conducted on properties known to contain significant quantities of mineral deposits it is generally accepted in the mining industry that most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of mineable deposits of ore in a commercially economical manner. There may be limited availability of water, which is essential to milling operations, and interruptions may be caused by adverse weather conditions. Operations are subject to a variety of existing laws and regulations relating to exploration and development, permitting procedures, safety precautions, property reclamation, employee health and safety, air quality standards, pollution and other environmental protection controls. Mining activities are subject to substantial operating hazards, some of which are not insurable or may not be insured for economic reasons. The commercial quantities of ore cannot be accurately predicted. Whether an ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors including the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as mineral prices and government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in a mineral deposit being unprofitable. There are no assurances that we can produce minerals on a commercially viable basis. The Company’s ability to generate revenue and profit is expected to occur through exploration of its existing properties as well as through acquisitions of interests in new properties. Substantial expenditures will be incurred in an attempt to establish the economic feasibility of mining operations by identifying mineral deposits and establishing ore reserves through drilling and other techniques, developing metallurgical processes to extract metals from ore, designing facilities and planning mining operations. The economic feasibility of a project depends on numerous factors, including the cost of mining and production facilities required to extract the desired minerals, the total mineral deposits that can be mined using a given facility, the proximity of the mineral deposits to refining facilities, and the market price of the minerals at the time of sale. There is no assurance that existing or future exploration programs or acquisitions will result in the identification of deposits that can be mined profitably. Mining operations and exploration activities are subject to various federal, provincial and local laws and regulations. Laws and regulation govern the development, mining, production, importing and exporting of minerals, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, toxic substances, and other matters. In many cases, licenses and permits are required to conduct mining operations. Amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation thereof could have a substantial adverse impact on the Company. Applicable laws and regulations will require the Company to make certain capital and operating expenditures to initiate new operations. Under certain circumstances, 9 the Company may be required to close an operation once it is started until a particular problem is remedied or to undertake other remedial actions. Market price is highly speculative. The market price of metals is highly speculative and volatile. Instability in metal prices may affect the interest in mining properties and the development of and production of such properties. Penny stock rules may make it more difficult to trade the Company’s common shares. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price, as defined, less than US$5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than US$5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and accredited investors such as institutions with assets in excess of US$5,000,000 or an individual with net worth in excess of US$1,000,000 or annual income exceeding US$200,000 or US$300,000 jointly with his or her spouse. For transactions covered by this rule, the broker-dealers must make a special suitability determination for the purchase and receive the purchaser’s written agreement of the transaction prior to the sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and also affect the ability of our investors to sell their shares in the secondary market. Title risks. The validity and ownership of mining property holdings can be uncertain and may be contested. Although the Company’s properties in Canada are currently wholly owned by the Company, there are currently a number of pending and potential native title or traditional land owner claims in Canada. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company’s properties in Canada will not be affected. Competition for mineral land. There is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available for acquisition, claim staking or leasing in the areas where the Company contemplates expanding its operations and conducting exploration activities. Many participants are engaged in the mining business, including large, established mining companies. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully for new mining properties. Competition for recruitment and retention of qualified personnel. We compete with other exploration companies, many of which have greater financial resources than us or are further in their development, for the recruitment and retention of qualified employees and other personnel. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs and supplies. If we require and are unsuccessful in acquiring additional personnel or other exploration resources, we will not be able to grow at the rate we desire or at all. Uncertainty of exploration and development programs. The Company’s profitability is significantly affected by the costs and results of its exploration and development programs. As mines have limited lives based on proven and probable mineral reserves, the Company actively seeks to expand its mineral reserves, primarily through exploration, development and strategic acquisitions. Exploration for minerals is highly speculative in nature, involves many risks and is frequently unsuccessful. Among the many uncertainties inherent in any gold and silver exploration and development program are the location of economic ore bodies, the development of appropriate metallurgical processes, the receipt of necessary governmental permits and the construction of mining and processing facilities. Assuming the discovery of an economic deposit, depending on the type of mining operation involved, several years may elapse from the initial phases of drilling until commercial operations are commenced and, during such time, the economic feasibility of production may change. Accordingly, the Company’s exploration and development programs may not result in any new economically viable mining operations or yield new mineral reserves to expand current mineral reserves. 10 Licenses and permits. The operations of the Company require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. The Company believes that it holds all necessary licenses and permits under applicable laws and regulations and believes that it is presently complying in all material respects with the terms of such licenses and permits. However, such licenses and permits are subject to change in various circumstances. There can be no guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary licenses and permits as are required to explore and develop its properties, commence construction or operation of mining facilities and properties under exploration or development or to maintain continued operations that economically justify the cost. Political or economic instability or unexpected regulatory change. Certain of our properties are located in countries, provinces and states more likely to be subject to political and economic instability, or unexpected legislative change, than is usually the case in certain other countries, provinces and states. Our mineral exploration activities could be adversely effected by: political instability and violence; war and civil disturbances; expropriation or nationalization; changing fiscal regimes; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; high rates of inflation; underdeveloped industrial and economic infrastructure; changes in the regulatory environment governing mineral properties; and unenforceability of contractual rights, any of which may adversely affect our business in that country. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. We maintain our bank accounts mainly in Canadian and U.S. Dollars. Any appreciation in the currency of Mexico or other countries where we may carry out exploration activities against the Canadian or U.S. Dollar will increase our costs of carrying out operations in such countries. In addition, any decrease in the U.S. Dollar against the Canadian Dollar will result in a loss on our books to the extent we hold funds in U.S. Dollars. Land reclamation requirements. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize the long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents and reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our mineral exploration we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration programs. Litigation. Although the Company is not currently subject to litigation, it may become involved in disputes with other parties in the future which may result in litigation. Any litigation could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management from our business operations. In addition, if the Company is unable to resolve any litigation favourably, it may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial performance, cash flow and results of operations. 11 Acquisitions. The Company undertakes evaluations of opportunities to acquire additional gold and silver mining properties. Any resultant acquisitions may be significant in size, may change the scale of the Company’s business, and may expose the Company to new geographic, political, operating, financial and geological risks. The Company’s success in its acquisition activities depends on its ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire them on acceptable terms, and integrate their operations successfully. Any acquisitions would be accompanied by risks, such as a significant decline in the price of gold or silver, the ore body proving to be below expectations, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, the potential disruption of the Company’s ongoing business, the inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of the Company through the successful integration of acquired assets and businesses, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, the impairment of relationships with customers and contractors as a result of any integration of new management personnel and the potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired mining properties. In addition, the Company may need additional capital to finance an acquisition. Historically, the Company has raised funds through equity financing and the exercise of options and warrants. However, the Company’s ability to raise capital to acquire and explore resource properties may be adversely affected by the market prices for natural resources which are highly speculative and volatile. There can be no assurance that the Company would be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with such acquisitions. Conflict of interest. Certain directors and officers of the Company are officers and/or directors of, or are associated with, other natural resource companies that acquire interests in mineral properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. The directors are required by law, however, to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and to disclose any personal interest which they may have in any material transaction which is proposed to be entered into with the Company and to abstain from voting as a director for the approval of any such transaction. Dependence on management. We are dependent on the services of key executives including our President and Chief Executive Officer and other highly skilled and experienced executives and personnel focused on advancing our corporate objectives as well as the identification of new opportunities for growth and funding. Due to our relatively small size, the loss of these persons or our inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled employees required for our activities may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Uncertainty of continuing as a going concern. The continuation of the Company depends upon its ability to develop a self-supporting business and generate cash flow from operations and/or to raise equity capital through the sale of its securities. The Company will be required to raise new financing through the sale of shares or issuance of debt to continue with the exploration and development of its mineral properties. As a result, there is uncertainty about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Company’s consolidated financial statements do not include the adjustments that would be necessary if the Company were unable to continue as a going concern. Limited and volatile trading volume. Although the Company’s common shares are listed on the TSX Venture Exchange, referred to as the “TSX-V” and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, referred to as the “FSE” and quoted in the United States on the OTC Bulletin Board, referred to as the “OTC BB”, the volume of trading has been limited and volatile in the past and is likely to continue to be so in the future, reducing the liquidity of an investment in the Company’s common shares and making it difficult for investors to readily sell their shares in the open market. Without a liquid market for the Company’s common shares, investors may be unable to sell their shares at favorable times and prices and may be required to hold their shares in declining markets or to sell them at unfavorable prices. Volatility of share price. In recent years, securities markets in Canada have experienced a high level of price volatility. The market price of many resource companies, particularly those, like the 12 Company, that are considered speculative exploration companies, have experienced wide fluctuations in price, resulting in substantial losses to investors who have sold their shares at a low price point. These fluctuations are based only in part on the level of progress of exploration, and can reflect general economic and market trends, world events or investor sentiment, and may sometimes bear no apparent relation to any objective factors or criteria. During the 2008 fiscal year, the Company’s common share price fluctuated between a low of $0.18 and a high of $1.78. Subsequent to the 2008 fiscal year and as of May 31, 2009, the Company’s common share price has fluctuated between a low of $0.38 and a high of $0.83. Significant fluctuations in the Company’s common share price is likely to continue, and could potentially increase in the future. Difficulty for United States investors to effect services of process against the Company. The Company is incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada. Consequently, it will be difficult for United States investors to affect service of process in the United States upon the directors or officers of the Company, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The majority of the Company’s directors and officers are residents of Canada and all of the Company’s assets are located outside of the United States. A judgment of a United States court predicated solely upon such civil liabilities would probably be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the United States court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or the Company predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. 