Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement regarding Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this annual report, including in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”, that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about our future performance, our business, our beliefs, and our management’s assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward-looking statements in press releases or other written statements or in oral communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls, and conference calls. Words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “outlook,” “forecast,” “potential,” “could,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “continue,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “should,” “would”, “may,” “will,” “assume,” variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated, intended, expected, believed, estimated, projected or planned including, but not limited to, those described below and in other reports we file or furnish with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We wish to ensure that such forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to obtain the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, such statements are qualified by reference to the discussion below of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that the list of factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and, except to the extent required by law, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions, or otherwise. Risks Related To Our Business Deterioration of the wireless infrastructure industry could lead to reductions in capital spending budgets by wireless operators and original equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and income. Our revenues and gross margins depend significantly on the overall demand for wireless infrastructure subsystems products. A reduction in capital spending budgets by wireless operators and OEMs caused by an economic downturn or by other factors could lead to a softening in demand for our products and services, which could result in a decrease in revenues and earnings. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation and this trend is expected to continue. Recent examples of this consolidation are Lucent’s merger with Alcatel and AT&T Wireless’ merger with Cingular. It is possible that we and one or more of our competitors each supply products to the companies that have merged or will merge. This consolidation has and could continue to result in delays in purchasing decisions by merged companies or in us playing a decreased role in the supply of products to the merged companies. Delays or reductions in wireless infrastructure spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products. We depend on several large OEMs and wireless service providers for a significant portion of our business. In fiscal 2007, the top 25 customers accounted for 71% of sales. Any disruption in our relationships with our major customers could adversely affect our sales, operating margins, net income and stock price. 12 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our manufacturing capacity and business activity is outside the United States. Conducting business in international markets involves risks and uncertainties such as foreign exchange rate exposure and political and economic instability that could lead to reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales, which would reduce our sales and income. Approximately 67% of our sales are outside the United States. We anticipate that international sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales and that continued growth and profitability will require further international expansion. Identifiable foreign exchange rate exposures result primarily from currency fluctuations, accounts receivable from customer sales, the anticipated purchase of products from affiliates and third-party suppliers and the repayment of inter-company loans denominated in foreign currencies with our foreign subsidiaries. International business risks also include political and economic instability, tariffs and other trade barriers, longer customer payment cycles, burdensome taxes, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, expropriation or requirements of local or shared ownership, compliance with local laws and regulations, terrorist attacks, developing legal systems, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, cultural and language differences, difficulties managing and staffing operations and difficulties maintaining good employee relations. We believe that international risks and uncertainties could lead to reduced international sales and reduced profitability associated with such sales, which would reduce our sales and income. The competitive pressures we face could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for our products and services in favor of our competitors’ products and services, which could harm our sales, gross margins and prospects. We face intense competition from a variety of competitors in all areas of our business, and compete primarily on the basis of technology, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, distribution, customer service and support. If we fail to develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services, or otherwise compete successfully, it would reduce our sales and prospects. Further, we may have to continue to lower the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive. If we cannot reduce our costs in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margins would decline. Our failure to meet the challenges involved in successfully integrating acquisitions or to otherwise realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions could adversely affect our results of operations. Over the last several years we have completed numerous acquisitions. While we believe that these acquisitions provide strategic growth opportunities for us, our inability to successfully integrate operations in a timely manner may result in us not realizing the anticipated benefits or synergies of these acquisitions. The integration of companies is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that could significantly disrupt our business. The anticipated benefits and synergies of acquisitions are based on projections and assumptions, not actual experience, and assume a successful integration. In addition, our ability to realize these benefits and synergies could be adversely impacted by practical or legal constraints on our ability to combine operations or implement workforce reductions and by risks relating to potential unknown liabilities. The challenges involved in successfully integrating acquisitions include: consolidating and rationalizing information systems and manufacturing operations, combining product offerings, coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities, preserving distribution, marketing and other important relationships, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, and coordinating and combining overseas operations, relationships and facilities, which may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws and regulations. If we cannot continue to rapidly develop, manufacture and market innovative products and services that meet customer requirements for performance and reliability, we may lose market share and our revenues may suffer. The process of developing new wireless technology products and services is complex and uncertain, and failure to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately and to develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property could significantly harm our results of operations. We must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our investments will eventually result in products that the market will accept. After a product is developed, we must be able to manufacture sufficient volumes quickly and at low costs. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, product mix and configurations that meet customer requirements, which we may not be able to do successfully. Among the factors that make a smooth transition from current products to new products difficult are delays in product development or manufacturing, variations in product costs, delays in customer purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product introductions and customer demand for the new product. Our revenues and gross margins may suffer if we cannot make such a transition effectively and also may suffer due to the timing of product or service introductions by our suppliers and competitors. This is especially challenging when a product has a short life cycle or a competitor introduces a new product just before our own product introduction. Furthermore, sales of our new products may replace sales of some of our current products, offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction. If we incur delays in new product introductions, or do not accurately estimate the market effects of new product introductions, given the competitive nature of our industry, future demand for our products and our revenues may be seriously harmed. 13 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that the sale of our Satellite Communications business will be completed on terms acceptable to us, or at all. On May 3, 2007, we announced our intention to sell our Satellite Communications business. On November 6, 2007, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement for the sale of our Satellite Communications business to Resilience. We expect the transaction to close by the end of calendar year 2007. Although we have signed a definitive sale agreement, there can be no assurance that all of the conditions to the closing of the sale will be satisfied and, therefore, there can be no assurance that we will complete this divestiture. If we do not complete the intended divestiture, we will have incurred significant transaction expenses and may continue to realize ongoing operating losses in connection with the Satellite Communications business. As of September 30, 2007, we determined that, as a result of continuing operating losses, lower short-term business prospects as compared to previous forecasts, and, despite significant numbers of initial indications of interest, the low number of remaining substantive bids resulting from our efforts to sell the Satellite Communications business, an indicator of impairment existed in accordance with SFAS 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. As such, we performed a test of the recoverability of the carrying value of the long-lived assets and incurred a non-cash impairment charge in the year ended September 30, 2007 of approximately $32 million to reduce the carrying value of long-lived assets to their estimated fair value. As a result of our agreement to sell our Satellite Communications business to Resilience, we expect to record a non-cash charge to earnings of between $15 million and $20 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Our revenues and selling, general and administrative expenses may suffer if we cannot continue to enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends or if third parties assert that we violate their intellectual property rights. We generally rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, partners and other parties, to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and products used in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or our intellectual property rights may not provide competitive advantages, which could significantly harm our business. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the wireless industry, a portion of our business and our products may rely on key technologies developed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties on reasonable terms or at all. Third parties also may claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. Even if we do not believe that our products or business are infringing upon third parties’ intellectual property rights, the claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to enter into costly settlement or license agreements. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology at all or on reasonable terms or substitute similar technology from another source, our sales, operating margins and income could suffer. We may be liable for enhancement of the damages awarded at trial (up to trebling) plus other costs and lost opportunities in connection with our intellectual property litigation with TruePosition. On September 14, 2007, a jury ruled in favor of TruePosition, finding that Andrew had willfully infringed a single TruePosition patent in providing a mobile location system to the customer, and the jury awarded $45 million in damages to TruePosition. As a result of the jury verdict in the case, we have recorded a $45 million pre-tax charge to our earnings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, which is our reasonable estimate of the probable loss if we are not successful with our post-verdict motions and, if necessary, appeal and the jury verdict is not reduced, set aside or overturned. On October 1, 2007, TruePosition filed a motion seeking a permanent injunction and a motion seeking to increase the damages awarded up to trebling the amount as well as the fees and expenses of its counsel. TruePosition may also seek to recover interest on the judgment. The litigation with TruePosition may result in the loss of future revenue opportunities, including opportunities to manufacture and sell products using uplink time difference of arrival (U-TDOA) technology; however, we are not currently able to assess the likelihood or magnitude of such potential losses. We are subject to risks related to product defects which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims which are greater than anticipated. If we were to experience a product recall or an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, our sales and operating results could be adversely affected. We test our products through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product’s warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers. We offer warranties on most products. The specific terms and conditions of the warranties offered vary depending upon the products sold. We accrue for warranty costs based on the number of units sold, the type of products sold, historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and cost per claim. We regularly review these forecasts and make adjustments as needed. If we were to experience a product recall or an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, our sales and operating results could be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents If we cannot continue to attract and retain highly-qualified people, our revenues, gross margin and income may suffer. We believe that our future success significantly depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly-qualified management, technical and marketing personnel. The competition for these individuals is intense. From time to time, there may be a shortage of skilled labor, which may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract, motivate and retain qualified employees. We believe our inability to do so could negatively impact the demand for our products and services and consequently our financial condition and operating results. Our costs and business prospects may be affected by increased government regulation. We are not directly regulated in the United States, but many of our U.S. customers and the telecommunications industry generally are subject to Federal Communications Commission regulations. In overseas markets, there are generally similar governmental agencies that regulate our customers. We believe that regulatory changes could have a significant negative effect on our business and operating results by restricting our customers’ development efforts, making current products obsolete or increasing competition. Our customers must obtain regulatory approvals to operate certain of our products. Any failure or delay by any of our customers to obtain these approvals would adversely impact our ability to sell our products. The enactment by governments of new laws or regulations or a change in the interpretation of existing regulations could adversely affect the market for our products. The increasing demand for wireless communications has exerted pressure on regulatory bodies worldwide to adopt new standards for such products, generally following extensive investigation and deliberation over competing technologies. In the past, the delays inherent in this governmental approval process have caused, and may in the future cause, the cancellation or postponement of the deployment of new technologies. These delays could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, gross margins and income. The Chinese government could delay issuance of anticipated new wireless network licenses. The Chinese government is planning to issue licenses for its next generation wireless network. The new Chinese network will become the technical standard with which wireless infrastructure will be designed, manufactured and deployed in China. It is anticipated that these licenses will be issued in the next twelve to eighteen months. Additionally, we anticipate an increase in wireless infrastructure spending associated with the build-out of the anticipated new network. Significant delays of license issuance could adversely affect our financial results. Compliance with European Union environmental directives could be difficult and costly for us. The European Union has issued directives governing the design of energy-using products, the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances and the waste (disposal) of electrical and electronic equipment. These directives require companies to change the way they design, manufacture, track and bring new products into the market. Certain products we manufacture and distribute throughout the European Union will need to comply with these directives. If we are not able to comply with these directives, customer shipments and financial results may be adversely affected. The goodwill balance on our balance sheet is tested annually for possible valuation impairment and any non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our financial results. We test our goodwill balance for possible impairment as of July 1 each year, or on an interim basis if circumstances dictate, based on the five reporting units of our business. As a result of the losses generated by Base Station Subsystems in the first six months of fiscal 2007, we determined that an interim test of the goodwill for Base Station Subsystems was required. We completed our assessment of Base Station Subsystems in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 and, as a result, recorded a non-cash impairment loss of $108 million. We completed our annual assessment of Satellite Communications in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and, as a result, recorded a non-cash impairment loss of $13 million related to goodwill. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment. In estimating the fair value of the business for the purpose of our annual or periodic analyses, we make estimates and judgments about the future cash flows of these businesses. Although our cash flow forecasts are based on assumptions that are consistent with plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business, there is significant judgment in determining the cash flows attributable to these businesses. If actual results are different from our forecasts, future tests may indicate additional impairments of goodwill, and additional non-cash charges, that may adversely affect our results of operations. If, in the course of our annual or interim valuation testing procedures we determine that a portion of the consolidated goodwill balance is impaired, any non-cash charge would adversely affect our financial results. The manufacture of our power amplifiers and certain of our filter products have been outsourced to companies that specialize in electronics contract manufacturing. The manufacturing of our power amplifier products has been performed by a leading electronics contract manufacturer for the past several years. Additionally, in September 2006, we announced that we are outsourcing the manufacture of our European and North American-made filters to another leading electronics contract manufacturer. We will continue to manufacture certain filter products at our Shenzhen, China facility. Our use of contract electronics manufacturers increases the risk of product supply disruption and intellectual property misappropriation. Disruption of product supplies could affect customer relationships, sales and profits. Intellectual property misappropriation could affect our competitiveness in power amplifier and certain filter product lines which would depress long-term sales and profits. 15 Table of Contents Allegations of health risks from wireless equipment may negatively affect our results of operations. Allegations of health risks from the electromagnetic fields generated by base stations and mobile handsets, and the lawsuits and publicity relating to them, regardless of merit, could affect our operations negatively by leading consumers to reduce their use of mobile phones or by causing us to allocate resources to these issues. We may need to renegotiate our credit facility. As of September 30, 2007, we were in violation of one of our debt covenants, principally due to the $45 million liability recorded in connection with the TruePosition intellectual property litigation and the classification of convertible notes as current liabilities, as the holders of the notes may require us to repurchase the notes in August 2008. We obtained a waiver from the lenders that allows us to utilize the entire $250 million until the earlier of December 31, 2007 or the closing of the proposed CommScope transaction. If the transaction does not close by December 31, 2007, we may need to renegotiate our credit facility with our lenders. We may not be able to obtain additional waivers, if required, or renegotiate our credit facility under terms that are favorable to the company. Beginning in fiscal 2003, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Act”) has required us to comply with numerous provisions focused on upgraded disclosures and corporate governance, increasing our cost and complexity of being a public company. Beginning in fiscal 2005, we have been required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Act, to include an internal control report of management in our annual report on Form 10-K. As revised in 2007 by the SEC’s “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Certification of Disclosure in Exchange Act Periodic Reports,” the internal control report must contain (1) a statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, (2) a statement identifying the framework used by management to conduct the required evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and (3) management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. We acknowledge our responsibility for internal controls over financial reporting and seek to continually improve those controls. We believe our process for documenting, evaluating and monitoring our internal control over financial reporting is consistent with the objectives of Section 404 of the Act. We devote significant resources to maintaining our system of internal controls. We believe the inability to implement and maintain adequate internal controls and to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in future periods could negatively impact investor confidence in the accuracy and integrity of our financial statements. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. The market price of our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience high volatility, and the broader stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. Some of the factors that can affect our stock price are: actual, or market expectations of, fluctuations in capital spending by wireless operators and original equipment manufacturers on wireless infrastructure; the announcement of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; continued variability in our revenue or earnings; changes in revenue or earnings estimates for us made by the investment community; delays or postponements of wireless infrastructure deployments, including 3G technology, regardless of whether such deployments have an actual impact on our orders or sales; and speculation in the press or investment community about our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business or significant transactions. General market conditions and domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance may also affect the price of our common stock. For these reasons, investors should not rely on historical trends to predict future stock prices or financial results. In addition, following periods of volatility in a company’s securities, securities class action litigation against a company is sometimes instituted. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. We anticipate that we will continue to face these types of risks. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Pending CommScope Merger CommScope and we may be required to comply with material restrictions or conditions in order to obtain the regulatory approvals to complete the merger and any delays in obtaining regulatory approvals may delay and possibly prevent the merger. The merger is subject to review by the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (the “HSR Act”), and by certain antitrust authorities outside of the United States. Under the HSR Act, CommScope and we are required to make pre-merger notification filings and await the expiration or early termination of the applicable statutory waiting period prior to completing the merger. CommScope and we each filed a Notification and Report Form pursuant to the HSR Act with the U.S. Department of Justice and U.S. Federal Trade Commission on July 16, 2007. On August 15, 2007, CommScope and we each received requests for additional information (commonly referred to as a “second request”) from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. The second requests were issued under the notification requirements of the HSR Act. The second requests extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act until 30 days after CommScope and we have substantially complied with the second requests, unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the U.S. Department of Justice. CommScope and we have been cooperating fully with the U.S. Department of Justice. The governmental entities from which approvals are required may request additional information from the parties in order to complete their review of the transaction and may condition their approval of the merger on the satisfaction of certain regulatory conditions that may have the effect of imposing restrictions or additional costs on CommScope or us. These conditions could include a complete or partial license, divestiture, spin-off or the sale of certain assets or businesses of either CommScope or us, which may be on terms that are not as favorable to CommScope or us as may have been attainable absent the merger, or other restrictions on the operation of the combined business. While CommScope and we expect to obtain the required regulatory approvals, neither can be certain that all of the required antitrust approvals will be obtained, nor can the parties be certain that the approvals will be obtained within the time limits contemplated by the merger agreement. A delay in obtaining the required approvals may delay and possibly prevent the completion of the merger. CommScope and we are each subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business under the terms of the merger agreement. Under the terms of the merger agreement, CommScope and we have agreed to certain restrictions on the operations of their respective businesses that are customary for transactions similar to the merger. Each has agreed that it will limit the conduct of its business to those actions undertaken in the ordinary course of business. In addition, we have agreed not to undertake, or have agreed to limit, certain corporate actions without the consent of CommScope. Among others, these actions include mergers and acquisitions or dispositions of assets, making loans to third parties, settling litigation matters of a certain size and undertaking capital expenditures in excess of prescribed limits. CommScope has agreed that without our consent it will not take certain actions that include amending its organization documents in a manner materially adverse to its stockholders and acquiring interests in an entity, which acquisition would be expected to impede or delay the governmental approvals required for the merger. Because of these restrictions, CommScope and we may be prevented from undertaking certain actions with respect to the conduct of our respective businesses that we might otherwise have taken if not for the merger agreement. The anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized. We and CommScope entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the merger will result in various benefits including, among other things, benefits relating to enhanced revenues, a broader array of infrastructure solutions, the expansion of CommScope’s global distribution and manufacturing capabilities, operational improvements and a diversification of CommScope’s customer base. The merger will present challenges to management, including the integration of the operations, properties and personnel of both companies. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, whether CommScope can integrate our businesses in an efficient and effective manner, whether there will be increased spending by wireless carriers, the ability of CommScope to manage potential volatility in commodities prices, the reaction of existing or potential competitors to the transaction, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially impact CommScope’s business, financial condition and operating results. CommScope and we both depend on key personnel, and the loss of any of these key personnel because of uncertainty regarding the merger, either before or after the merger, could hurt the businesses of the combined company after the merger. CommScope and we both depend on the services of our key personnel. Current and prospective employees of CommScope and ours may, either before or after the merger, experience uncertainty about their future roles with CommScope after the merger, which may affect the performance of such personnel adversely and the ability of each company to retain and attract key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of these key employees or CommScope’s or our inability to attract, train, and retain qualified employees could result in the loss of customers or otherwise inhibit the ability of CommScope to integrate and grow the combined businesses effectively after the merger. 17 Table of Contents The merger may result in a loss of customers. Some customers may seek alternative sources of product and/or service after the announcement of the merger due to, among other reasons, a desire not to do business with CommScope after the merger or perceived concerns that CommScope may not continue to support and develop certain product lines. Difficulties in combining operations could also result in the loss of, or potential disputes or litigation with, customers. Any steps by management to counter such potential increased customer attrition may not be effective. Failure by management to retain customers could result in worse than anticipated financial performance. If the conditions to the merger are not satisfied or waived, the merger may not occur. Specified conditions set forth in the merger agreement must be satisfied or waived to complete the merger. If the conditions are not satisfied or waived, to the extent permitted by law or the rules or regulations of NASDAQ, the merger will not occur or will be delayed, and each of CommScope and us may lose some or all of the intended benefits of the merger. To the extent that our common stock currently trades based on the merger consideration, if the merger is not consummated, the price of our common stock may decline. The following conditions, in addition to other customary closing conditions, must be satisfied or waived, if permissible, before CommScope and we are obligated to complete the merger: • The merger agreement must be adopted by the holders of at least a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock as of the applicable record date; • The waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the merger pursuant to the HSR Act, or any other applicable competition, merger, antitrust or similar law shall have expired or been terminated; • Specified governmental consents or certain other approvals shall have been obtained and be in full force and effect; • There must not be any judgment, injunction, decree or order issued by any court or other governmental entity or any other statute, law, rule, legal restraint or prohibition which prohibits, materially restricts, makes illegal or enjoins consummation of the merger; and • There must not be any action or proceeding pending by a governmental entity challenging or seeking to prevent the consummation of the merger. The merger agreement limits our ability to pursue an alternative transaction proposal to the merger, and requires us to pay a termination fee if we do so under certain circumstances. The merger agreement prohibits us from soliciting, initiating, encouraging or facilitating certain alternative transaction proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the merger agreement. Further, the merger agreement provides that we may be required to pay a termination fee to CommScope equal to $75 million in certain circumstances. These provisions limit our ability to pursue offers from third parties that could result in greater value to our stockholders relative to the terms and conditions of the merger. Our obligation to pay the termination fee may discourage a third party from pursuing a competing acquisition proposal that could result in greater value to our stockholders. In addition, payment of the termination fee could adversely affect our financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 