ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks, uncertainties and other factors described below could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and prospects. The Company has a history of operating losses. It expects to continue to incur losses and may not continue as a going concern as indicated in the auditor's report and the notes to our financial statements. The Company has a history of losses and can provide no assurance as to future operating results. As a result of these losses, the Company may exhaust its financial resources and be unable to complete the development of its product candidates. The Company expects losses to continue for the next few years as it attempts to develop its product candidates, and there is no certainty that the Company will ever become profitable as a result of these expenditures. The Company’s ability to become profitable depends primarily on the following factors: • its ability to bring to market proprietary drugs that are progressing through its development process; • its marketing and sales efforts; and • its ability to enter into favorable alliances with third-parties who can provide substantial capabilities in clinical development, manufacturing, regulatory affairs, sales, marketing and distribution. Even if the Company successfully develops and markets its product candidates, the Company may not generate sufficient or sustainable revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. The Company's failure to continue as a going concern may result in its insolvency or ceasing operations and result in a loss of your investment in the Company. The Company is planning to deregister with the SEC. Information reported in the past to shareholders may not be available to the same extent or frequency which could result in a decline in our stock price or limit investors ability to trade in our stock. Shortly following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company plans to file Form 15 to voluntarily terminate its registration under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act"). The Company has determined that deregistering under the Exchange Act would result in significant time and cost savings to the Company. This will result in less information about the Company being available to shareholders and investors immediately following the filing of Form 15. The Company is presently traded on the Pink OTC Markets, Inc. ("Pink Sheets") which does not require Exchange Act registration or the Company to meet the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. The Company plans to make available information required for its common stock to continue to be traded on the Pink Sheets, but there is no assurance it will do so or that market makers will continue to make a market in the Company's common stock. The Company’s product development efforts may be reduced or discontinued due to difficulties or delays in clinical trials. To achieve sustained profitability, the Company must, alone or with corporate partners and collaborators, successfully research, develop and commercialize identified technologies or product candidates, and/or increase sales of higher margin products. These products are also rigorously regulated by the U.S. federal government, particularly the FDA, and by comparable agencies in state and local jurisdictions and in foreign countries. Specifically, each of the following results is possible with respect to any one of the Company’s developmental product candidates: . • that the Company will not be able to maintain its current research and development schedules; • that the Company will not be able to enter into human clinical trials because of scientific, governmental or financial reasons, or that it will encounter problems in clinical trials that will cause a delay or suspension of the development of the product candidate as, for example, occurred when the Independent Review Board and CONRAD suspended two Phase III clinical trials of Ushercell pending an investigation; • that the developmental product will be found to be ineffective or unsafe; • that government regulations will delay or prevent the product’s marketing for a considerable period of time and impose costly procedures upon the Company’s activities; • that the FDA or other regulatory agencies will not approve the product or the process by which the product is manufactured, or will not do so on a timely basis; and/or • that the FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations and policies may be instituted, which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of the product. 6 If any of the risks set forth above occurs, the Company may not be able to successfully develop its identified developmental product candidates. The Company’s developmental product commercialization efforts may not be successful. It is possible that, for reasons including, but not limited to those set forth below, the Company may be unable to commercialize or receive royalties from the sale of any given developmental product, even if it is shown to be effective, if: • the product is uneconomical or if the market for the product does not develop or diminishes; • the Company is not able to enter into arrangements or collaborations to commercialize and/or market the product; • the product is not eligible for third-party reimbursement from government or private insurers; • others hold proprietary rights that preclude the Company from commercializing the product; • others have brought to market similar or superior products; • others have superior resources to market similar products or technologies; • government regulation imposes limitations on the indicated uses of the product, or later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product results in added restrictions on the product or results in the product being withdrawn from the market; and/or • the product has undesirable or unintended side effects that prevent or limit its commercial use. The Company depends on partnerships with third parties for the development and commercialization of its products. The Company’s strategy for development and commercialization of its products is to rely on licensing agreements with third party partners. As a result, the ability of the Company to commercialize future products is dependent upon the success of third parties in performing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and successfully marketing its products. There can be no assurance that such third party collaborations will be successful. If any of the Company’s current research and development partnerships are discontinued, it may not be able to find others to develop and commercialize its current product candidates. The Company does not currently have agreements with third parties to market its developmental products. The commercialization of any of the Company’s developmental products that receive FDA approval will depend upon the Company’s ability to enter into agreements with companies that have sales and marketing capabilities. The Company currently intends to sell its products in the United States and internationally in collaboration with one or more marketing partners. The Company may not be able to enter into any such collaboration to market its developmental products in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The Company may be unable to commercialize its products if it is unable to protect its proprietary rights, and may be liable for significant costs and damages if it faces a claim of intellectual property infringement by a third party. The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to obtain and maintain patents, protect trade secrets and operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others. In the absence of patent and trade secret protection, competitors may adversely affect the Company’s business by independently developing and marketing substantially equivalent or superior products, possibly at lower prices. The Company could also incur substantial costs in litigation and suffer diversion of attention of technical and management personnel if it is required to defend intellectual property infringement suits brought by third parties, with or without merit, or if required to initiate litigation against others to protect or assert intellectual property rights. Moreover, any such litigation may not be resolved in favor of the Company. 7 The Company has received various patents covering the uses of its developmental products. However, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions, and recently has been the subject of much litigation. Any patents the Company has obtained, or may obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, because patent applications in the United States are maintained in secrecy until patents issue, and because publication of discoveries in scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, the Company cannot be certain that it and its licensors are the first creators of inventions covered by any licensed patent applications or patents or that the Company or such licensors are the first to file. The United States Patent and Trademark Office may commence interference proceedings involving patents or patent applications, in which the question of first inventorship is contested. Accordingly, the patents owned by, or licensed to, the Company may not be valid or may not afford the Company protection against competitors with similar intellectual property. It is also possible that the Company’s patents may infringe on patents or other rights owned by others, licenses to which may not be available to the Company. The Company may have to alter its products or processes, pay licensing fees or cease certain activities altogether because of patent rights of third parties. In addition to the products for which the Company has patents or has filed patent applications, the Company relies upon unpatented proprietary technology and may not be able to meaningfully protect its rights with regard to that unpatented proprietary technology. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 