Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also impair its business and results of operations. Lower than expected selling prices resulting from increased marketplace competition could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The nonalcoholic beverage markets are highly competitive. The Company’s competitors in these markets include bottlers and distributors of nationally advertised and marketed products, regionally advertised and marketed products and private label beverages. Although the Company has placed an emphasis on revenue management, there can be no assurance that increased competition will not reduce the Company’s profitability. Changes in how significant customers market or promote the Company’s products could reduce revenue. The Company’s revenue is impacted by how significant customers market or promote the Company’s products. Revenue has been negatively impacted by less aggressive price promotion by some retailers in the future consumption channels in the past several years. If the Company’s significant customers change the manner in which they market or promote the Company’s products, the Company’s revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted. Changes in public and consumer preferences related to nonalcoholic beverages could reduce demand for the Company’s products and reduce profitability. The Company’s business depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of the Company’s business in large measure depends on working with the Beverage Companies to meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. Health and wellness trends throughout the marketplace have resulted in a shift from sugar carbonated beverages to diet carbonated beverages, tea, sports drinks and bottled water over the past several years. Failure to satisfy changing consumer preferences could adversely affect the profitability of the Company’s business. The Company’s inability to meet requirements under its bottling contracts could result in the loss of distribution rights. Approximately 90% of the Company’s bottle/can sales volume with retail customers consists of products of The Coca-Cola Company, which is the sole supplier of the concentrates or syrups required to manufacture these 10 Table of Contents products. The remaining 10% of the Company’s bottle/can sales volume with retail customers generally consists of products of other beverage companies. The Company has bottling contracts under which it has various requirements to meet. Failure to meet the requirements of these bottling contracts could result in the loss of distribution rights for the respective products. Material changes in, or the Company’s inability to meet, the performance requirements for marketing funding support, or decreases from historic levels of marketing funding support, could reduce the Company’s profitability. Material changes in the performance requirements, or decreases in the levels of marketing funding support historically provided, under marketing programs with The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies, or the Company’s inability to meet the performance requirements for the anticipated levels of such marketing funding support payments, could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies are under no obligation to continue marketing funding support at historic levels. Changes in The Coca-Cola Company’s and other beverage companies’ levels of advertising, marketing spending and brand innovation could reduce the Company’s sales volume. The Coca-Cola Company’s and other beverage companies’ levels of advertising, marketing spending and brand innovation directly impact the Company’s operations. While the Company does not believe there will be significant changes in the levels of marketing and advertising by the Beverage Companies, there can be no assurance that historic levels will continue. In addition, if the sales volume of sugar carbonated beverages continues to decline, the Company’s sales volume growth will continue to be dependent on brand innovation by the Beverage Companies, especially The Coca-Cola Company. Decreases in Beverage Company marketing, advertising and product brand innovation could adversely impact the profitability of the Company. The inability of the Company’s aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s purchase requirements could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company currently obtains all of its aluminum cans from one domestic supplier and all of its plastic bottles from two domestic cooperatives. The inability of these aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s requirements for containers could result in short-term shortages until alternative sources of supply can be located. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks by working closely with key suppliers and by purchasing business interruption insurance where appropriate. Failure of the aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s purchase requirements could reduce the Company’s profitability. The inability of the Company to offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, increased bottle/can sales volume or reduced expenses could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Packaging costs, primarily plastic bottle costs and aluminum can costs, increased in 2006. The Company expects aluminum can and high fructose corn syrup costs to increase significantly in 2007. In addition, there are no limits on the prices The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies can charge for concentrate. If the Company cannot offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, increased sales volume or reductions in other costs, the Company’s profitability could be adversely affected. Sustained increases in fuel costs or the inability of the Company to secure adequate supplies of fuel could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company has experienced significant increases in fuel costs as a result primarily of macro-economic factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company uses significant amounts of fuel in the distribution of its products. Events such as natural disasters could impact the supply of fuel and could impact the timely delivery of the Company’s products to its customers. While the Company is working to reduce fuel consumption, there can 11 Table of Contents be no assurance that the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Sustained increases in workers’ compensation, employment practices and vehicle accident costs could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company is generally self-insured for the costs of workers’ compensation, employment practices and vehicle accident claims. Losses are accrued using assumptions and procedures followed in the insurance industry, adjusted for company-specific history and expectations. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company’s profitability is substantially affected by the cost of pension retirement benefits, postretirement medical benefits and current employees’ medical benefits. In recent years, the Company has experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond the Company’s control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of the Company. Approximately 42% of the Company’s debt and capital lease obligations of $769.0 million as of December 31, 2006 was subject to changes in short-term interest rates. Rising interest rates have increased the Company’s interest expense over the past two years. In addition, the Company’s pension and postretirement medical benefits costs are subject to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase in the future, there can be no assurance that future increases in interest expense will not reduce the Company’s overall profitability. The Company’s credit rating could be impacted by The Coca-Cola Company. The Company’s credit rating could be significantly impacted by capital management activities of The Coca-Cola Company and/or changes in the credit rating of The Coca-Cola Company. A lower credit rating could significantly increase the Company’s interest cost. Changes in legal contingencies could impact the Company’s future profitability. Changes from expectations for the resolution of outstanding legal claims and assessments could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. In addition, the Company’s failure to abide by laws, orders or other legal commitments could subject the Company to fines, penalties or other damages. Additional taxes resulting from tax audits could impact the Company’s future profitability. An assessment of additional taxes resulting from audits of the Company’s tax filings could have a material impact on the Company’s profitability, cash flows and financial condition. Natural disasters and unfavorable weather could impact the Company’s future profitability. Natural disasters or unfavorable weather conditions in the geographic regions in which the Company does business could have a material impact on the Company’s revenue and profitability. 12 Table of Contents Issues surrounding labor relations could impact the Company’s future profitability and/or its operating efficiency. Approximately 7% of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The inability to renegotiate subsequent agreements on satisfactory terms and conditions could result in work interruptions or stoppages, which could have a material impact on the profitability of the Company. Also, the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could increase costs, or otherwise affect the Company’s ability to fully implement operational changes to improve overall efficiency. The Company’s ability to change distribution methods and business practices could be affected by United States bottler system disputes. Recent litigation filed by some United States bottlers of Coca-Cola products indicates that disagreements may exist within the Coca-Cola bottler system concerning distribution methods and business practices. Although the litigation has been dismissed without prejudice, these disagreements among various Coca-Cola bottlers have not been finally resolved and could adversely affect the Company’s ability to fully implement its business plans in the future. Management’s use of estimates and assumptions could have a material effect on reported results. The Company’s consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements include estimates and assumptions by management that impact reported amounts. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company’s Board of Directors has the ability to declare dividends on the Company’s Common Stock without declaring equal or any dividends of the Company’s Class B Common Stock. Under the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may declare dividends on Common Stock without declaring equal or any dividends on the Class B Common Stock. However, the holders of the Class B Common Stock control approximately 88% of the total voting power of the common stockholders of the Company and the election of the Board, and the Board has declared and the Company has paid dividends on Common Stock and Class B Common Stock and each class of common stock has participated equally, on a per share basis, in all dividends declared and paid by the Board since 1994. As such, the Company does not believe the Board would systematically declare dividends on the Common Stock without declaring dividends on the Class B Common Stock. The Company has experienced public policy challenges regarding the sale of soft drinks in schools, particularly elementary, middle and high schools. At December 31, 2006, a number of states had regulations restricting the sale of soft drinks and other foods in schools. Many of these restrictions have existed for several years in connection with subsidized meal programs in schools. The focus has more recently turned to the growing health, nutrition and obesity concerns of today’s youth. The impact of restrictive legislation, if widely enacted, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s products, images and reputation. The concentration of the Company’s capital stock ownership with the Harrison family will limit other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. Members of the Harrison family, including the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Frank Harrison, III, beneficially own shares of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 92% of the total voting power of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. In addition, two members of the Harrison family, including Mr. Harrison, III serve on the Board of Directors of the Company. As a result, 13 Table of Contents members of the Harrison family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over the Company’s management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by the Company’s stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by the Company’s other stockholders and could depress the stock price. Additionally, as a result of the Harrison family’s significant beneficial ownership of the Company’s outstanding voting stock, the Company has relied on the “controlled company” exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC. This concentration of control limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take actions that the Company’s stockholders do not view as beneficial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 