Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. The Company may not be able to respond successfully to changes in the marketplace. The Company operates in the highly competitive nonalcoholic beverage industry and faces strong competition from other general and specialty beverage companies. The Company’s response to continued and increased customer and competitor consolidations and marketplace competition may result in lower than expected net pricing of the Company’s products. The Company’s ability to gain or maintain the Company’s share of sales or gross margins may be limited by the actions of the Company’s competitors, which may have advantages in setting their prices due to lower raw material costs. Competitive pressures in the markets in which the Company operates may cause channel and product mix to shift away from more profitable channels and packages. If the Company is unable to maintain or increase volume in higher-margin products and in packages sold through higher-margin channels (e.g., immediate consumption), pricing and gross margins could be adversely affected. The Company’s efforts to improve pricing may result in lower than expected sales volume. Changes in how significant customers market or promote the Company’s products could reduce revenue. The Company’s revenue is affected by how significant customers market or promote the Company’s products. Revenue has been negatively impacted by less aggressive price promotion by some retailers in the future consumption channels over the past several years. If the Company’s significant customers change the manner in which they market or promote the Company’s products, the Company’s revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted. Changes in the Company’s top customer relationships could impact revenues and profitability. The Company is exposed to risks resulting from several large customers that account for a significant portion of its bottle/can volume and revenue. The Company’s two largest customers accounted for approximately 31% of the Company’s 2014 bottle/can volume to retail customers and approximately 21% of the Company’s total net sales. The loss of one or both of these customers could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. These customers typically make purchase decisions based on a combination of price, product quality, consumer demand and customer service performance and generally do not enter into long-term contracts. In addition, these significant customers may re-evaluate or refine their business practices related to inventories, product displays, logistics or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected if revenue from one or more of these customers is significantly reduced or if the cost of complying with these customers’ demands is significant. If receivables from one or more of these customers become uncollectible, the Company’s results of operations may be adversely impacted. Changes in public and consumer preferences related to nonalcoholic beverages could reduce demand for the Company’s products and reduce profitability. The Company’s business depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of the Company’s business depends in large measure on working with the Beverage Companies to meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. Health and wellness trends throughout the marketplace have resulted in a shift from sugar sparkling beverages to diet sparkling beverages, tea, sports drinks, enhanced water and bottled water over the past several years. Failure to satisfy changing consumer preferences, particularly those of young people, could adversely affect the profitability of the Company’s business. The Company’s sales can be impacted by the health and stability of the general economy. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the geographic markets in which the Company does business, may have the temporary effect of reducing the demand 15 Table of Contents for certain of the Company’s products. For example, economic forces may cause consumers to shift away from purchasing higher-margin products and packages sold through immediate consumption and other highly profitable channels. Adverse economic conditions could also increase the likelihood of customer delinquencies and bankruptcies, which would increase the risk of uncollectibility of certain accounts. Each of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s revenue, price realization, gross margins and overall financial condition and operating results. The inability of the Company to successfully integrate the operations of the Expansion Territories and any future expansion territories into the Company’s existing operations and implement the new contractual arrangements for the Expansion Territories could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The following pose potential risks relative to the Expansion Territories: the Company’s ability to successfully combine the Company’s business with the Expansion Territories, including integrating distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems between the Company’s Legacy Territories and the Expansion Territories; and the Company’s ability to successfully operate in the Expansion Territories: motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance and health and safety compliance), procedures and policies and business cultures between the Company and the Expansion Territories; growing business with existing customers and attracting new customers; and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. The territory expansion transactions the Company has recently completed and any future expansion transactions also involve certain other financial and business risks, including that the Company might not realize a satisfactory return on the Company’s investment, that the Company’s assumptions regarding potential growth, synergies or cost savings could turn out to have been incorrect, or that the territory expansions divert key members of the Company’s management’s attention and the Company’s other available resources from our existing business in the Legacy Territories. Miscalculation of the Company’s need for infrastructure investment could impact the Company’s financial results in both the Company’s Legacy and Expansion Territories and any future expansion territories. Projected requirements of the Company’s infrastructure investments in both the Company’s Legacy and Expansion Territories and any future expansion territories may differ from actual levels if the Company’s volume growth is not as the Company anticipates. The Company’s infrastructure investments are generally long-term in nature; therefore, it is possible that investments made today may not generate the returns expected by the Company due to future changes in the marketplace. Significant changes from the Company’s expected returns on cold drink equipment, fleet, technology and supply chain infrastructure investments could adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial results. The Company’s inability to meet requirements under its beverage agreements could result in the loss of distribution rights. Approximately 88% of the Company’s bottle/can volume to retail customers in 2014 consisted of products of The Coca-Cola Company, which is the sole supplier of these products or of the concentrates or syrups required to manufacture these products. The remaining 12% of the Company’s bottle/can volume to retail customers in 2014 consisted of products of other beverage companies and the Company’s own products. The Company must satisfy various requirements under its beverage agreements, including the new CBAs for the Expansion Territories, which include additional obligations the Company must perform. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in the loss of distribution rights for the respective products under one or more of these beverage agreements. The occurrence of other events defined in these agreements could also result in the termination of one or more beverage agreements. 16 Table of Contents Material changes in, or the Company’s inability to satisfy, the performance requirements for marketing funding support, or decreases from historic levels of marketing funding support, could reduce the Company’s profitability. Material changes in the performance requirements, or decreases in the levels of marketing funding support historically provided, under marketing programs with The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies, or the Company’s inability to meet the performance requirements for the anticipated levels of such marketing funding support payments, could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies are under no obligation to continue marketing funding support at historic levels. Changes in The Coca-Cola Company’s and other beverage companies’ levels of advertising, marketing spending and product innovation could reduce the Company’s sales volume. The Coca-Cola Company’s and other beverage companies’ levels of advertising, marketing spending and product innovation directly impact the Company’s operations. While the Company does not believe there will be significant changes in the levels of marketing and advertising by the Beverage Companies, there can be no assurance that historic levels will continue. The Company’s volume growth will also continue to be dependent on product innovation by the Beverage Companies, especially The Coca-Cola Company. Decreases in marketing, advertising and product innovation by the Beverage Companies could adversely impact the profitability of the Company. The inability of the Company’s aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s purchase requirements could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company currently obtains all of its aluminum cans from two domestic suppliers and all of its plastic bottles from two domestic cooperatives. The inability of these aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s requirements for containers could result in short-term shortages until alternative sources of supply can be located. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks by working closely with key suppliers and by purchasing business interruption insurance where appropriate. Failure of the aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s purchase requirements could reduce the Company’s profitability. The inability of the Company to offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, increased bottle/can volume or reduced expenses could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Raw material costs, including the costs for plastic bottles, aluminum cans and high fructose corn syrup, have been subject to significant price volatility in the past and may continue to be in the future. In addition, there are no limits on the prices The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies can charge for concentrate. If the Company cannot offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, increased sales volume or reductions in other costs, the Company’s profitability could be adversely affected. The consolidation among suppliers of certain of the Company’s raw materials could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. In recent years, there has been consolidation among suppliers of certain of the Company’s raw materials. The reduction in the number of competitive sources of supply could have an adverse effect upon the Company’s ability to negotiate the lowest costs and, in light of the Company’s relatively small in-plant raw material inventory levels, has the potential for causing interruptions in the Company’s supply of raw materials. The increasing reliance on purchased finished goods from external sources makes the Company subject to incremental risks that could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company has become increasingly reliant on purchased finished goods from external sources versus the Company’s internal production. As a result, the Company is subject to incremental risk including, but not limited to, product availability, price variability, and product quality and production capacity shortfalls for externally purchased finished goods. The Company’s operations in the Expansion Territories are more exposed to this risk 17 Table of Contents than the Company’s operations in the Legacy Territories because, with exceptions under which the Company may produce finished goods itself, the Company is required under the CBAs for the Expansion Territories to purchase finished goods from CCR and other authorized external sources in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Finished Goods Supply Agreement entered into by the Company at the closing of each Expansion Territory transaction in quantities required to satisfy fully the demand for beverages and related products the Company is authorized to distribute in the Expansion Territory. Sustained increases in fuel prices or the inability of the Company to secure adequate supplies of fuel could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company uses significant amounts of fuel in the distribution of its products. International or domestic geopolitical or other events could impact the supply and cost of fuel and could impact the timely delivery of the Company’s products to its customers. While the Company is working to reduce fuel consumption and manage the Company’s fuel costs, there can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in limiting the impact on the Company’s business or future cost increases. The Company may use derivative instruments to hedge some or all of the Company’s projected diesel fuel and gasoline purchases. These derivative instruments relate to fuel used in the Company’s delivery fleet and other vehicles. Sustained upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Sustained increases in workers’ compensation, employment practices and vehicle accident claims costs could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company uses various insurance structures to manage its workers’ compensation, auto liability, medical and other insurable risks. These structures consist of retentions, deductibles, limits and a diverse group of insurers that serve to strategically transfer and mitigate the financial impact of losses. The Company uses commercial insurance for claims as a risk reduction strategy to minimize catastrophic losses. Losses are accrued using assumptions and procedures followed in the insurance industry, adjusted for company-specific history and expectations. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Sustained upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company’s profitability is substantially affected by the cost of pension retirement benefits, postretirement medical benefits and current employees’ medical benefits. In recent years, the Company has experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond the Company’s control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Product safety and quality concerns, including concerns related to perceived artificiality of ingredients, could negatively affect the Company’s business. The Company’s success depends in large part on its ability to maintain consumer confidence in the safety and quality of all its products. The Company has rigorous product safety and quality standards. However, if beverage products taken to market are or become contaminated or adulterated, the Company may be required to conduct costly product recalls and may become subject to product liability claims and negative publicity, which would cause its business to suffer. In addition, regulatory actions, activities by nongovernmental organizations and public debate and concerns about perceived negative safety and quality consequences of certain ingredients in the Company’s products, such as non-nutritive sweeteners, may erode consumers’ confidence in the safety and quality issues, whether or not justified, and could result in additional governmental regulations concerning the marketing and labeling of the Company’s products, negative publicity, or actual or threatened legal actions, all of which could damage the reputation of the Company’s products and may reduce demand for the Company’s products. 18 Table of Contents Cybersecurity risks - technology failures or cyberattacks on the Company’s systems could disrupt the Company’s operations and negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company increasingly relies on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. For example, the Company’s production and distribution facilities, inventory management and driver handheld devices all utilize information technology to maximize efficiencies and minimize costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communication between personnel, customers and suppliers depends on information technology. Like most companies, the Company’s information technology systems may be vulnerable to interruption due to a variety of events beyond the Company’s control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. The Company has technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate the Company’s risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to ensure that the Company’s operations are not disrupted. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of the Company. As of February 28, 2015, $153.0 million of the Company’s debt and capital lease obligations of $584.8 million were subject to changes in short-term interest rates. The Company’s $350 million revolving credit facility is subject to changes in short-term interest rates. On February 28, 2015, the Company had $153.0 million of outstanding borrowings on the $350 million revolving credit facility. If interest rates increase in the future, it could increase the Company’s borrowing cost and it could reduce the Company’s overall profitability. The Company’s pension and postretirement medical benefits costs are also subject to changes in interest rates. A decline in interest rates used to discount the Company’s pension and postretirement medical liabilities could increase the cost of these benefits and increase the overall liability. The level of the Company’s debt could restrict the Company’s operating flexibility and limit the Company’s ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. As of February 28, 2015, the Company had $584.8 million of debt and capital lease obligations. The Company’s level of debt requires the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of the Company’s future cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available to the Company for other purposes. The Company’s debt can negatively impact the Company’s operations by (1) limiting the Company’s ability and/or increasing the cost to obtain funding for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes, including funding the cash purchase price of future territory expansions; (2) increasing the Company’s vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions by limiting the Company’s ability to react to changing economic and business conditions; and (3) exposing the Company to a risk that a significant decrease in cash flows from operations could make it difficult for the Company to meet the Company’s debt service requirements. The Company’s credit ratings could be negatively impacted by changes to The Coca-Cola Company’s credit ratings. The Company’s credit rating could be significantly impacted by capital management activities of The Coca-Cola Company and/or changes in the credit ratings of The Coca-Cola Company. A lower credit rating could significantly increase the Company’s interest costs or could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing at acceptable interest rates or to refinance existing debt. Changes in legal contingencies could adversely impact the Company’s future profitability. Changes from expectations for the resolution of outstanding legal claims and assessments could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. In addition, the Company’s failure to abide by laws, orders or other legal commitments could subject the Company to fines, penalties or other damages. 19 Table of Contents Legislative changes that affect the Company’s distribution, packaging and products could reduce demand for the Company’s products or increase the Company’s costs. The Company’s business model is dependent on the availability of the Company’s various products and packages in multiple channels and locations to better satisfy the needs of the Company’s customers and consumers. Laws that restrict the Company’s ability to distribute products in schools and other venues, as well as laws that require deposits for certain types of packages or those that limit the Company’s ability to design new packages or market certain packages, could negatively impact the financial results of the Company. In addition, excise or other taxes imposed on the sale of certain of the Company’s products by the federal government and certain state and local governments could cause consumers to shift away from purchasing products of the Company. If enacted, such taxes could materially affect the Company’s business and financial results, particularly if they were enacted in a form that incorporated them into the shelf prices for the Company’s products. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of affected products. In 2014, the FDA proposed major changes to the nutrition labels required on all packaged foods and beverages, including those for most of the Company’s products. If the proposed changes are adopted, the Company and its competitors will be required to make nutrition label updates, which include updating serving sizes, including information about total calories in a beverage product container and providing information about any added sugars or nutrients. If the pending FDA nutrition label changes proposed become final, they will increase the Company’s costs and could inhibit sales of one or more of the Company’s major products. The timeline for implementation of any final regulations adopted by the FDA regarding changes to required nutrition labels is currently expected to be a period of up to two years. Changes in income tax laws and increases in income tax rates could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. The Company is subject to income taxes within the United States. The Company’s annual income tax rate is based upon the Company’s income and the federal tax laws and the various state tax laws within the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Increases in federal or state income tax rates and changes in federal or state tax laws could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial results. Additional taxes resulting from tax audits could adversely impact the Company’s future profitability. An assessment of additional taxes resulting from audits of the Company’s tax filings could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability, cash flows and financial condition. Natural disasters and unfavorable weather could negatively impact the Company’s future profitability. Natural disasters or unfavorable weather conditions in the geographic regions in which the Company does business could have an adverse impact on the Company’s revenue and profitability. Unusually cold or rainy weather during the summer months may have a temporary effect on the demand for the Company’s products and contribute to lower sales, which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability for such periods. Prolonged drought conditions in the geographic regions in which the Company does business could lead to restrictions on the use of water, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to manufacture and distribute products and the Company’s cost to do so. Global climate change or legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change could adversely impact the Company’s future profitability. There is some scientific sentiment that increased concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) in the atmosphere may have been the dominant cause of observed warming of the earth’s climate system since the mid-20th century, and that continued emission of GHGs could cause further warming and long-lasting changes in components of the global climate system, potentially increasing the 20 Table of Contents likelihood of severe, pervasive and irreversible impacts for people and ecosystems. Changing weather patterns, along with the increased frequency or duration of extreme weather and climate events, such as an increase in the number of heavy precipitation events, could impact some of the Company’s facilities and the availability or increase the cost of key raw materials that the Company uses to produce its products. In addition, the sale of the Company’s products can be impacted by weather conditions and climate events. Growing concern over the effects of climate change, including warming of the global climate system, has led to legislative and regulatory initiatives directed at limiting GHG emissions. For example, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has proposed regulations under the Clean Air Act to reduce GHG emissions from existing coal-fired power plants, which are expected to become final in 2015, that would require each state to submit a plan specifying how it would reduce GHG emissions from existing coal-fired power plants located within its borders It is anticipated that when the states implement their plans they could lead to the eventual closing of many of these plants. These USEPA proposed regulations or future laws enacted or regulations adopted to limit GHG emissions that directly or indirectly affect the Company’s production, distribution, packaging, cost of raw materials, fuel, ingredients and water could all impact the Company’s business and financial results. Issues surrounding labor relations could adversely impact the Company’s future profitability and/or its operating efficiency. Approximately 6% of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The inability to renegotiate subsequent agreements on satisfactory terms and conditions could result in work interruptions or stoppages, which could have a material impact on the profitability of the Company. Also, the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could increase costs, or otherwise affect the Company’s ability to fully implement operational changes to improve overall efficiency. Two collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 5% of the Company’s employees expired during 2014 and the Company entered into new agreements in 2014. One collective bargaining agreement covering approximately .3% of the Company’s employees will expire during 2015. The Company’s ability to change distribution methods and business practices could be negatively affected by United States Coca-Cola bottler system disputes. Litigation filed by some United States bottlers of Coca-Cola products indicates that disagreements may exist within the Coca-Cola bottler system concerning distribution methods and business practices. Although the litigation has been resolved, disagreements among various Coca-Cola bottlers could adversely affect the Company’s ability to fully implement its business plans in the future. Obesity and other health concerns may reduce demand for some of the Company’s products. Consumers, public health officials, public health advocates and government officials are becoming increasingly concerned about the public health consequences associated with obesity, particularly among young people. In The production and marketing of beverages are subject to the rules and regulations of the FDA and other federal, state and local health agencies. The FDA also regulates the labeling of containers under The Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990. The Nutrition Facts label has not changed significantly since it was first introduced in 1994. In March 2014, the FDA proposed new rules that would result in major changes to nutrition labels on all food packages, including the packaging for the Company’s products, that would, among other things, require those labels to display caloric counts in large type, reflect larger portion sizes and display on a separate line on the label the amount of sugars that are added to the product. If these proposed rules are adopted by the FDA, the Company expects to have up to two years to put the required labeling changes into effect on the packaging for the products it manufactures and distributes. In addition, some researchers, health advocates and dietary guidelines are encouraging consumers to reduce the consumption of sugar, including sugar sparkling beverages. Increasing public concern about these issues, possible new taxes and governmental regulations concerning the production, marketing, labeling or availability of the Company’s beverages, and negative 21 Table of Contents publicity resulting from actual or threatened legal actions against the Company or other companies in the same industry relating to the marketing, labeling or sale of sugar sparkling beverages may reduce demand for these beverages, which could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Company has experienced public policy challenges regarding the sale of soft drinks in schools, particularly elementary, middle and high schools. A number of states have regulations restricting the sale of soft drinks and other foods in schools. Many of these restrictions have existed for several years in connection with subsidized meal programs in schools. The focus has more recently turned to the growing health, nutrition and obesity concerns of today’s youth. The impact of restrictive legislation, if widely enacted, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s products, image and reputation. If the financing of any future territory or other acquisitions involves issuing additional equity securities, their issuance would be dilutive and could affect the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. Acquisitions of the distribution assets of CCR in the Expansion Territory transactions completed to date have been financed with available cash or by draws on our revolving credit facility. The Company may fund any future territory or other acquisition transactions through the use of existing cash, cash equivalents or investments, debt financing, including draws on the Company’s revolving credit facility, the issuance of equity securities, or a combination of the foregoing. Any future acquisitions of additional distribution or other assets that are financed in whole or in part by issuing additional shares of the Company’s Common Stock would be dilutive, which could affect the market price of our Common Stock. The concentration of the Company’s capital stock ownership with the Harrison family limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. Members of the Harrison family, including the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Frank Harrison, III, beneficially own shares of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 86% of the total voting power of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. In addition, three members of the Harrison family, including Mr. Harrison, serve on the Board of Directors of the Company. As a result, members of the Harrison family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over the Company’s management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by the Company’s stockholders. Additionally, as a result of the Harrison family’s significant beneficial ownership of the Company’s outstanding voting stock, the Company has relied on the “controlled company” exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by the Company’s other stockholders and could depress the stock price. It also limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take actions that the Company’s other stockholders may not view as beneficial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 