Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. The Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties, including risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also impair its business and results of operations. The Company may not be able to respond successfully to changes in the marketplace. The Company operates in the highly competitive nonalcoholic beverage industry and faces strong competition from other general and specialty beverage companies. The Company’s response to continued and increased customer and competitor consolidations and marketplace competition may result in lower than expected net pricing of the Company’s products. The Company’s ability to gain or maintain the Company’s share of sales or gross margins may be limited by the actions of the Company’s competitors, which may have advantages in setting their prices because of lower raw material costs. Competitive pressures in the markets in which the Company operates may cause channel and product mix to shift away from more profitable channels and packages. If the Company is unable to maintain or increase volume in higher-margin products and in packages sold through higher-margin channels (e.g. immediate consumption), pricing and gross margins could be adversely affected. The Company’s efforts to improve pricing may result in lower than expected sales volume. Changes in how significant customers market or promote the Company’s products could reduce revenue. The Company’s revenue is impacted by how significant customers market or promote the Company’s products. Revenue has been negatively impacted by less aggressive price promotion by some retailers in the future consumption channels in the past several years. If the Company’s significant customers change the manner in which they market or promote the Company’s products, the Company’s revenue and profitability could be adversely impacted. Changes in public and consumer preferences related to nonalcoholic beverages could reduce demand for the Company’s products and reduce profitability. The Company’s business depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of the Company’s business in large measure depends on working with the 10 Table of Contents Beverage Companies to meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market. Health and wellness trends throughout the marketplace have resulted in a shift from sugar sparkling beverages to diet sparkling beverages, tea, sports drinks and bottled water over the past several years. Failure to satisfy changing consumer preferences could adversely affect the profitability of the Company’s business. The Company’s sales can be impacted by the health and stability of the general economy. Unfavorable changes in general economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the geographic markets in which the Company does business, may have the temporary effect of reducing the demand for certain of the Company’s products. For example, economic forces may cause consumers to shift away from purchasing higher-margin products and packages sold through immediate consumption and other highly profitable channels, which could adversely affect the Company’s price realization and gross margins. Miscalculation of the Company’s need for infrastructure investment could impact the Company’s financial results. Projected requirements of the Company’s infrastructure investments may differ from actual levels if the Company’s volume growth is not as the Company anticipates. The Company’s infrastructure investments are generally long-term in nature; therefore, it is possible that investments made today may not generate the returns expected by the Company due to future changes in the marketplace. Significant changes from the Company’s expected returns on cold drink equipment, fleet, technology and supply chain infrastructure investments could adversely affect the Company’s consolidated financial results. The Company’s inability to meet requirements under its bottling contracts could result in the loss of distribution rights. Approximately 89% of the Company’s bottle/can volume with retail customers consists of products of The Coca-Cola Company, which is the sole supplier of the concentrates or syrups required to manufacture these products. The remaining 11% of the Company’s bottle/can volume with retail customers generally consists of products of other beverage companies and the Company’s own products. The Company must satisfy various requirements under its bottling contracts. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in the loss of distribution rights for the respective products. Material changes in, or the Company’s inability to satisfy, the performance requirements for marketing funding support, or decreases from historic levels of marketing funding support, could reduce the Company’s profitability. Material changes in the performance requirements, or decreases in the levels of marketing funding support historically provided, under marketing programs with The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies, or the Company’s inability to meet the performance requirements for the anticipated levels of such marketing funding support payments, could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies are under no obligation to continue marketing funding support at historic levels. Changes in The Coca-Cola Company’s and other beverage companies’ levels of advertising, marketing spending and product innovation could reduce the Company’s sales volume. The Coca-Cola Company’s and other beverage companies’ levels of advertising, marketing spending and product innovation directly impact the Company’s operations. While the Company does not believe there will be significant changes in the levels of marketing and advertising by the Beverage Companies, there can be no assurance that historic levels will continue. In addition, if the volume of sugar sparkling beverages continues to decline, the Company’s volume growth will continue to be dependent on product innovation by the Beverage Companies, especially The Coca-Cola Company. Decreases in Beverage Company marketing, advertising and product innovation could adversely impact the profitability of the Company. 11 Table of Contents The inability of the Company’s aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s purchase requirements could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company currently obtains all of its aluminum cans from one domestic supplier and all of its plastic bottles from two domestic cooperatives. The inability of these aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s requirements for containers could result in short-term shortages until alternative sources of supply can be located. The Company attempts to mitigate these risks by working closely with key suppliers and by purchasing business interruption insurance where appropriate. Failure of the aluminum can or plastic bottle suppliers to meet the Company’s purchase requirements could reduce the Company’s profitability. The inability of the Company to offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, increased bottle/can volume or reduced expenses could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. Packaging costs, primarily aluminum cans, and high fructose corn syrup cost increased significantly in 2007. The Company expects concentrate, plastic bottles, aluminum cans and high fructose corn syrup costs to increase in 2008. In addition, there are no limits on the prices The Coca-Cola Company and other beverage companies can charge for concentrate. If the Company cannot offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, increased sales volume or reductions in other costs, the Company’s profitability could be adversely affected. In recent years, there has been consolidation among suppliers of certain of the Company’s raw materials. The reduction in the number of competitive sources of supply could have an adverse effect upon the Company’s ability to negotiate the lowest costs and, in light of the Company’s relatively small in-plant raw material inventory levels, has the potential for causing interruptions in the Company’s supply of raw materials. With the introduction of FUZE, Campbell and glacéau products into the Company’s portfolio during 2007, the Company is becoming increasingly reliant on purchased finished goods from external sources versus the Company’s internal production. As a result, the Company is subject to incremental risk including, but not limited to, product availability, price variability, product quality and production capacity shortfalls for externally purchased finished goods. Sustained increases in fuel prices or the inability of the Company to secure adequate supplies of fuel could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability. The Company has experienced significant increases in fuel prices as a result primarily of macro-economic factors beyond the Company’s control. The Company uses significant amounts of fuel in the distribution of its products. Events such as natural disasters could impact the supply of fuel and could impact the timely delivery of the Company’s products to its customers. While the Company is working to reduce fuel consumption, there can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Sustained increases in workers’ compensation, employment practices and vehicle accident costs could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company is generally self-insured for the costs of workers’ compensation, employment practices and vehicle accident claims. Losses are accrued using assumptions and procedures followed in the insurance industry, adjusted for company-specific history and expectations. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases. Continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Sustained increases in the cost of employee benefits could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company’s profitability is substantially affected by the cost of pension retirement benefits, postretirement medical benefits and current employees’ medical benefits. In recent years, the Company has experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond the Company’s control, including increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. Although the Company has actively sought to control increases in these costs, there 12 Table of Contents can be no assurance the Company will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce the profitability of the Company’s operations. Product liability claims brought against the Company or product recalls could negatively affect the Company’s business, financial results and brand image. The Company may be liable if the consumption of the Company’s products causes injury or illness. The Company may also be required to recall products if they become contaminated or are damaged or mislabeled. A significant product liability or other product-related legal judgment against the Company or a widespread recall of the Company’s products could negatively impact the Company’s business, financial results and brand image. Technology failures could disrupt the Company’s operations and negatively impact the Company’s business. The Company increasingly relies on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. For example, the Company’s production and distribution facilities, inventory management and driver handheld devices all utilize information technology to maximize efficiencies and minimize costs. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communication between personnel, customers and suppliers depends on information technology. Like all companies, the Company’s information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions due to events beyond the Company’s control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hackers and other security issues. The Company has technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans in place to mitigate the Company’s risk to these vulnerabilities, but these measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to ensure that the Company’s operations are not disrupted. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect the profitability of the Company. Approximately 41% of the Company’s debt and capital lease obligations of $679.1 million as of December 30, 2007 was subject to changes in short-term interest rates. In addition, the Company’s pension and postretirement medical benefits costs are subject to changes in interest rates. If interest rates increase in the future, there can be no assurance that future increases in interest expense will not reduce the Company’s overall profitability. The Company’s credit rating could be negatively impacted by The Coca-Cola Company. The Company’s credit rating could be significantly impacted by capital management activities of The Coca-Cola Company and/or changes in the credit rating of The Coca-Cola Company. A lower credit rating could significantly increase the Company’s interest costs or could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to obtain additional financing at acceptable interest rates or to refinance existing debt. Changes in legal contingencies could adversely impact the Company’s future profitability. Changes from expectations for the resolution of outstanding legal claims and assessments could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability and financial condition. In addition, the Company’s failure to abide by laws, orders or other legal commitments could subject the Company to fines, penalties or other damages. Legislative changes that affect the Company’s distribution and packaging could reduce demand for the Company’s products or increase the Company’s costs. The Company’s business model is dependent on the availability of the Company’s various products and packages in multiple channels and locations versus those of the Company’s competitors to better satisfy the needs of the Company’s customers and consumers. Laws that restrict the Company’s ability to distribute products in schools and other venues, as well as laws that require deposits for certain types of packages or those that limit the Company’s ability to design new packages or market certain packages, could negatively impact the financial results of the Company. 13 Table of Contents Additional taxes resulting from tax audits could adversely impact the Company’s future profitability. An assessment of additional taxes resulting from audits of the Company’s tax filings could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability, cash flows and financial condition. Natural disasters and unfavorable weather could negatively impact the Company’s future profitability. Natural disasters or unfavorable weather conditions in the geographic regions in which the Company does business could have an adverse impact on the Company’s revenue and profitability. For example, prolonged drought conditions in the geographic regions in which the Company does business could lead to restrictions on the use of water, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to manufacture and distribute products and the Company’s cost to do so. Issues surrounding labor relations could adversely impact the Company’s future profitability and/or its operating efficiency. Approximately 7% of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The inability to renegotiate subsequent agreements on satisfactory terms and conditions could result in work interruptions or stoppages, which could have a material impact on the profitability of the Company. Also, the terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could increase costs, or otherwise affect the Company’s ability to fully implement operational changes to improve overall efficiency. Two collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 5% of the Company’s employees expire in 2008. The Company’s ability to change distribution methods and business practices could be negatively affected by United States bottler system disputes. Recent litigation filed by some United States bottlers of Coca-Cola products indicates that disagreements may exist within the Coca-Cola bottler system concerning distribution methods and business practices. Although the litigation has been resolved, disagreements among various Coca-Cola bottlers could adversely affect the Company’s ability to fully implement its business plans in the future. Management’s use of estimates and assumptions could have a material effect on reported results. The Company’s consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements include estimates and assumptions by management that impact reported amounts. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. The Company has experienced public policy challenges regarding the sale of soft drinks in schools, particularly elementary, middle and high schools. A number of states have regulations restricting the sale of soft drinks and other foods in schools. Many of these restrictions have existed for several years in connection with subsidized meal programs in schools. The focus has more recently turned to the growing health, nutrition and obesity concerns of today’s youth. The impact of restrictive legislation, if widely enacted, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s products, image and reputation. The concentration of the Company’s capital stock ownership with the Harrison family limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. Members of the Harrison family, including the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, J. Frank Harrison, III, beneficially own shares of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock representing approximately 91.8% of the total voting power of the Company’s outstanding capital stock. In addition, two members of the Harrison family, including Mr. Harrison, III, serve on the Board of Directors of the Company. As a result, members of the Harrison family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over the Company’s management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by the Company’s stockholders. This 14 Table of Contents concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control otherwise favored by the Company’s other stockholders and could depress the stock price. Additionally, as a result of the Harrison family’s significant beneficial ownership of the Company’s outstanding voting stock, the Company has relied on the “controlled company” exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. This concentration of control limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, the Company may take actions that the Company’s stockholders do not view as beneficial. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 