Risk Factors”, and includes the risk that Twistbox may operate at a deficit while we work on launching the suite of IQ products, which, in turn, entails business and financial risks and the possibility of needing additional capital and the associate dilution. We have a limited operating history in an emerging market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business. We have only a limited history of generating revenues, and the future revenue potential of our business in this emerging market is uncertain. As a result of our short operating history, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of our limited operating history and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in our stage of development. As an early stage company in the emerging mobile entertainment industry, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following: • maintain our current, and develop new, wireless carrier relationships, in both international and domestic markets; • maintain and expand our current, and develop new, relationships with compelling content owners; • retain or improve our current revenue-sharing arrangements with carriers and content owners; • continue to develop new high-quality products and services that achieve significant market acceptance; • continue to develop and upgrade our technology; • continue to enhance our information processing systems; • increase the number of end users of our products and services; • execute our business and marketing strategies successfully; • respond to competitive developments; and • attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, accomplishing many of these efforts might be very expensive, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. Twistbox’s revenues are declining and are expected to continue to decline. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition, we are not able to predict our future revenues or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. Individual products and services, and carrier 11 Table of Contents relationships, represent meaningful portions of our revenues and margins in any quarter. In addition, some payments from carriers that we recognize as revenue on a cash basis may be delayed unpredictably. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly results include: • the number of new products and services released by us and our competitors; • the timing of release of new products and services by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenues in a period; • the popularity of new products and services, and products and services released in prior periods; • changes in prominence of deck placement for our leading products and those of our competitors; • the expiration of existing content licenses; • the timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, royalties and minimum guarantees; • changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors or our carriers and other distributors; • changes in the mix of original and licensed content, which have varying gross margins; • the seasonality of our industry; • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for mobile products and services and related content; • strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; • our success in entering new geographic markets; • foreign exchange fluctuations; • accounting rules governing recognition of revenue; • general economic, political and market conditions and trends; • the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants; and • decisions by us to incur additional expenses, such as increases in marketing or research and development. As a result of these and other factors, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who choose to follow our company. Our failure to meet market expectations would likely result in decreases in the trading price of our common stock. We currently rely on wireless carriers to market and distribute some of our products and services and thus to generate some of our revenues. The loss of or a change in any of these significant carrier relationships could cause us to lose access to their subscribers and thus materially reduce our revenues. The future success of our on-deck business is highly dependent upon maintaining successful relationships with the wireless carriers with which we currently work and establishing new carrier relationships in geographies where we have not yet established a significant presence. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a very limited number of carriers. We expect that we will continue to generate a substantial portion of our revenues through distribution relationships with a limited number of carriers for the foreseeable future. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these carriers would materially reduce our revenues and thus harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have both exclusive and non-exclusive carrier agreements. Typically, carrier agreements have a term of one or two years with automatic renewal provisions upon expiration of the initial term, absent a contrary notice from either party. In addition, some carrier agreements provide that the carrier can terminate the agreement early and, in some instances, at any time without cause, which could give them the ability to renegotiate economic or other terms. The agreements generally do not obligate the carriers to market or distribute any of our products or services. In many of these agreements, we warrant that our products do not violate community standards, do not contain libelous content, do not contain material defects or viruses, and do not violate third-party intellectual property rights and we indemnify the carrier for any breach of a third party’s intellectual property. In addition, many of our agreements allow the carrier to set the retail price without 12 Table of Contents adjustment to the negotiated revenue split. If one of these carriers sets the retail price below historic pricing models, the total revenues received from these carriers will be significantly reduced. Many other factors outside our control could impair our ability to generate revenues through a given carrier, including the following: • the carrier’s preference for our competitors’ products and services rather than ours; • the carrier’s decision not to include or highlight our products and services on the deck of its mobile handsets; • the carrier’s decision to discontinue the sale of some or all of products and services; • the carrier’s decision to offer similar products and services to its subscribers without charge or at reduced prices; • the carrier’s decision to require market development funds from publishers like us; • the carrier’s decision to restrict or alter subscription or other terms for downloading our products and services; • a failure of the carrier’s merchandising, provisioning or billing systems; • the carrier’s decision to offer its own competing products and services; • the carrier’s decision to transition to different platforms and revenue models; and • consolidation among carriers. If any of our carriers decides not to market or distribute our products and services or decides to terminate, not renew or modify the terms of its agreement with us or if there is consolidation among carriers generally, we may be unable to replace the affected agreement with acceptable alternatives, causing us to lose access to that carrier’s subscribers and the revenues they afford us, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to renew our existing brand and content licenses on favorable terms or at all and to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new products and services or to continue to offer our products and services based on third-party content. Revenues are derived from our products and services based on or incorporating brands or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. Any of our licensors could decide not to renew our existing license or not to license additional intellectual property and instead license to our competitors or develop and publish its own products or other applications, competing with us in the marketplace. Several of these licensors already provide intellectual property for other platforms, and may have significant experience and development resources available to them should they decide to compete with us rather than license to us. We have both exclusive and non-exclusive licenses and licenses that are both global and licenses that are limited to specific geographies. Our licenses generally have terms that range from two to five years. We may be unable to renew these licenses or to renew them on terms favorable to us, and we may be unable to secure alternatives in a timely manner. Failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses or to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new products and services or to continue to offer our current products or services, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our existing licenses impose, and licenses that we obtain in the future might impose, development, distribution and marketing obligations on us. If we breach our obligations, our licensors might have the right to terminate our licenses, and such termination would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we are successful in gaining new licenses or extending existing licenses, we may fail to anticipate the entertainment, shopping or mobile preferences of our end users when making choices about which brands or other content to license. If the entertainment, shopping or mobile preferences of end users shift to content or brands owned or developed by companies with which we do not have relationships, we may be unable to establish and maintain successful relationships with these developers and owners, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, some rights are licensed from licensors that have or may develop financial difficulties, and may enter into bankruptcy protection under U.S. federal law or the laws of other countries. If any of our licensors files for bankruptcy, our licenses might be impaired or voided, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Inferior on-deck placement of our products, or the failure of the market to accept the IQ system, would likely adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. Wireless carriers provide a limited selection of products that are accessible to their subscribers through a deck on their mobile handsets. The inherent limitation on the volume of products available on the deck is a function of the limited screen size of handsets and carriers’ perceptions of the depth of menus and numbers of choices end users will generally utilize. Carriers typically provide one or more top level menus highlighting products that are recent top sellers or are of particular interest to the subscriber, that the carrier believes will become top sellers or that the carrier otherwise chooses to feature, in addition to a link to a menu of additional products sorted by genre. We believe that deck placement on the top level or featured menu or toward the top of genre-specific or other menus, rather than lower down or in sub-menus, is likely to result in products achieving a greater degree of commercial success. If carriers choose to give our products less favorable deck placement, our products may be less successful than we anticipate, our revenues may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially harmed. In addition, if carriers or other participants in the market favor another competitor’s products over IQ, or opt not to enable and implement technology like IQ to unify operating systems, our future growth could suffer and our revenues could be negatively affected. 13 Table of Contents If we are unsuccessful in establishing and increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our products and services or if we incur excessive expenses promoting and maintaining our brand or our products and services, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We believe that establishing and maintaining our brand is critical to retaining and expanding our existing relationships with wireless carriers, content licensors, and mobile publishers as well as developing new relationships. Promotion of the Company’s brands will depend on our success in providing high-quality products and services. Similarly, recognition of our products and services by end users will depend on our ability to develop engaging products and quality services to maintain existing, and attracts new, business relationships and end users. However, our success will also depend, in part, on the services and efforts of third parties, over which we have little or no control. For instance, if our carriers fail to provide high levels of service, our end users’ ability to access our products and services may be interrupted, which may adversely affect our brand. If end users, branded content owners and carriers do not perceive our offerings as high-quality or if we introduce new products and services that are not favorably received by our end users and carriers, then we may be unsuccessful in building brand recognition and brand loyalty in the marketplace. In addition, globalizing and extending our brand and recognition of our products and services will be costly and will involve extensive management time to execute successfully. Further, the markets in which we operate are highly competitive and some of our competitors already have substantially more brand name recognition and greater marketing resources than we do. If we fail to increase brand awareness and consumer recognition of our products and services, our potential revenues could be limited, our costs could increase and our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. We currently rely on third-party billing aggregators to provide end-users with access to some of our products and services through premium short message system (Premium SMS), WAP billing and other technologies. The loss of, or a change in, any of these significant third-party relationships or the use of mobile billing technologies could reduce the number of transactions initiated by these end-users and thus materially reduce our revenues. Our off-deck business is dependent upon access to available traffic and billing aggregators that use mobile billing technologies to deliver and bill for our products and services. If we were to lose one or more of these relationships, or if there is a material change or limitation in the use of certain billing technologies, we would experience a significant reduction in the number of transactions initiated by end-users and thus material reduction in our revenues. If we fail to deliver our products and services at the same time as new mobile handset models are commercially introduced, our sales may suffer. Our business is dependent, in part, on the commercial introduction of new handset models with enhanced features, including larger, higher resolution color screens, improved audio quality, and greater processing power, memory, battery life and storage. We do not control the timing of these handset launches. Some new handsets are sold by carriers with certain products or other applications pre-loaded, and many end users who download our products or use our services do so after they purchase their new handsets to experience the new features of those handsets. Some handset manufacturers give us access to their handsets prior to commercial release. If one or more major handset manufacturers were to cease to provide us access to new handset models prior to commercial release, we might be unable to introduce compatible versions of our products and services for those handsets in coordination with their commercial release, and we might not be able to make compatible versions for a substantial period following their commercial release. If, because of launch delays, we miss the opportunity to sell products and services when new handsets are shipped or our end users upgrade to a new handset, or if we miss the key holiday selling period, either because the introduction of a new handset is delayed or we do not deploy our products and services in time for the holiday selling season, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. We may be unable to develop and introduce in a timely way new products or services, and our products and services may have defects, which could harm our brand. The planned timing and introduction of new products and services are subject to risks and uncertainties. Unexpected technical, operational, deployment, distribution or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of new products and services, which could result in a loss of, or delay in, revenues or damage to our reputation and brand. If any of our products or services is introduced with defects, errors or failures, we could experience decreased sales, loss of end users, damage to our carrier relationships and damage to our reputation and brand. Our attractiveness to branded content licensors might also be reduced. In addition, new products and services may not achieve sufficient market acceptance to offset the costs of development, particularly when the introduction of a product or service is substantially later than a planned “day-and-date” launch, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain and enhance our capabilities for porting our offerings to a broad array of mobile handsets, our attractiveness to wireless carriers and branded content owners will be impaired, and our sales could suffer. Once developed, a product or application may be required to be ported to, or converted into separate versions for, more than 1,000 different handset models, many with different technological requirements. These include handsets with various combinations of underlying technologies, user interfaces, keypad layouts, screen resolutions, sound capabilities and other carrier-specific customizations. If we fail to maintain or enhance our porting capabilities, our sales could suffer, branded content owners might choose not to grant us licenses and carriers might choose not to give our products and services desirable deck placement or not to give our products and services placement on their decks at all. Changes to our design and development processes to address new features or functions of handsets or networks might cause inefficiencies in our porting process or might result in more labor-intensive porting processes. In addition, we anticipate that in the future we will be required to port existing and new products and applications to a broader array of handsets. If we utilize more labor intensive porting processes, our margins could be significantly reduced and it might take us longer to port our products and applications to an equivalent number of handsets. This, in turn, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of a majority of our revenues from on-deck distribution channels currently being derived from a limited number of wireless carriers, if any one of these carriers were unable to fulfill its payment obligations, our financial condition and results of operations would suffer. If any of our primary carriers is unable to fulfill its payment obligations to us under our carrier agreements with them, our revenues attributable to on-deck distribution could decline significantly and our financial condition will be harmed. We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing mobile and online services or content. We provide a variety of products and services that enable carriers, content providers and users to engage in various mobile and online activities both domestically and internationally. The law relating to the liability of providers of these mobile and online services and products for such activities is still unsettled and constantly evolving in the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us for breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, tort or other theories based on the provision of these products and services. In addition, we are and have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates laws in domestic and international jurisdictions. We also arrange for the distribution of third-party advertisements to third-party publishers and advertising networks, and we offer third-party products, services, or content. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products, services, or content. While we routinely insert indemnification provisions into our contracts with these parties, such indemnities to us, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers from covered products and services. In addition, recorded reserves and/or insurance coverage may be exceeded by unexpected results from such claims which directly impacts profits. Defending such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner. Risks Related to Our Market The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and many of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. The development, distribution and sale of mobile products and services is a highly competitive business. We compete for end users primarily on the basis of “on-deck” or “off-deck” positioning, brand, quality and price. We compete for wireless carriers for “on-deck” placement based on these factors, as well as historical performance, technical know-how, perception of sales potential and relationships with licensors of brands and other intellectual property. We compete for content and brand licensors based on royalty and other economic terms, perceptions of development quality, porting abilities, speed of execution, distribution breadth and relationships with carriers. We compete for platform deployment contracts amongst other mobile platform companies. We also compete for experienced and talented employees. Our primary competitors for the on-deck distribution channels as well as the provisioning of platform services include Mondia Media, Voltari (formerly known as Motricity), net mobile AG, Jesta Digital, Buongiorno (acquired by NTT DOCOMO), Mobile Streams, and Gameloft, and for end-users via our direct-to-consumer off-deck services they include Zamano plc, Playphone, Inc, Jesta and Flycell Inc. For our storefront business, our primary competition comes from the Apple App Store, Google Play, and existing operator solutions built internally. For the DT IQ product, there is some competition in the space by Everything.me but our main competitors are OEM launchers and Android launchers. With DT Ignite, we see competitors in internally developed operator solutions and specific mobile application management solutions built individually by OEMs. In the future, likely competitors include major media companies, traditional video game publishers, platform developers, content aggregators, mobile software providers and independent mobile game publishers. Carriers may also decide to develop, internally or through a managed third-party developer, and distribute their own products and services. If carriers enter the wireless market as publishers, they might refuse to distribute some or all of our products and services or might deny us access to all or part of their networks. DT, whose principal customers would be carriers, would face competition from any carriers who decided to distribute their own products or services. In addition, while we are not aware of any non-carriers who are seeking to offer the equivalent scope of services as the DT platform, various of the competitors mentioned above (and new competitors entering the mobile platform space) currently offer or could in the future offer components of DT’s platform, and may seek to expand their offerings to compete with DT on a comprehensive basis, especially if DT’s model and approach meets with success. Some of our competitors’ and our potential competitors’ advantages over us, either globally or in particular geographic markets, include the following: • significantly greater revenues and financial resources; 15 Table of Contents • stronger brand and consumer recognition regionally or worldwide; • the capacity to leverage their marketing expenditures across a broader portfolio of mobile and non-mobile products; • more substantial intellectual property of their own from which they can develop products and services without having to pay royalties; • pre-existing relationships with brand owners or carriers that afford them access to intellectual property while blocking the access of competitors to that same intellectual property; • greater resources to make acquisitions; • lower labor and development costs; and • broader global distribution and presence. If we are unable to compete effectively or we are not as successful as our competitors in our target markets, our sales could decline (or inhibit generation of sales, in DT’s case), our margins could decline and we could lose market share (or in DT’s case, fail to penetrate the market), any of which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. End user tastes are continually changing and are often unpredictable; if we fail to develop and publish new products and services that achieve market acceptance, our sales would suffer. Our business depends on developing and publishing new products and services that wireless carriers distribute and end users will buy. We must continue to invest significant resources in licensing efforts, research and development, marketing and regional expansion to enhance our offering of new products and services, and we must make decisions about these matters well in advance of product release in order to implement them in a timely manner. Our success depends, in part, on unpredictable and volatile factors beyond our control, including end-user preferences, competing products and services and the availability of other entertainment activities. If our products and services are not responsive to the requirements of our carriers or the entertainment preferences of end users, are not marketed effectively through our direct-to-consumer operations, or they are not brought to market in a timely and effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Even if our products and services are successfully introduced, marketed effectively and initially adopted, a subsequent shift in our carriers, the entertainment, shopping and mobile preferences of end users, or our relationship with third-party billing aggregators could cause a decline in the popularity of, or access to, our offerings could materially reduce our revenues and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Wireless carriers generally control the price charged for our products and services and the billing and collection for sales and could make decisions detrimental to us. Wireless carriers generally control the price charged for our products and services either by approving or establishing the price of the offering charged to their subscribers. Some of our carrier agreements also restrict our ability to change prices. In cases where carrier approval is required, approvals may not be granted in a timely manner or at all. A failure or delay in obtaining these approvals, the prices established by the carriers for our offerings, or changes in these prices could adversely affect market acceptance of our offerings. Similarly, for a minority of our carriers, when we make changes to a pricing plan (the wholesale price and the corresponding suggested retail price based on our negotiated revenue-sharing arrangement), adjustments to the actual retail price charged to end users may not be made in a timely manner or at all (even though our wholesale price was reduced). A failure or delay by these carriers in adjusting the retail price for our offerings, could adversely affect sales volume and our revenues for those offerings. Carriers and other distributors also control billings and collections for our products and services, either directly or through third-party service providers. If our carriers or their third-party service providers cause material inaccuracies when providing billing and collection services to us, our revenues may be less than anticipated or may be subject to refund at the discretion of the carrier. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently rely on the current state of the law in certain territories where we operate our “off-deck” direct-to-consumer business and any adverse change in such laws may significantly adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. Decisions that regulators or governing bodies make with regard to the provision and marketing of mobile content and/or billing can have a significant impact on the revenues generated in that market. Although most of our markets are mature with regulation clearly defined and implemented, there remains the potential for regulatory changes that would have adverse consequences on the business and subsequently our revenue. We rely on our current understanding of regional regulatory requirements pertaining to the marketing, advertising and promotion of our “off-deck” direct- to-consumer products and services and any adverse change in such regulations, or a finding that we did not properly 16 Table of Contents understand such regulations, may significantly impact our ability to market, advertise and promote our products and services thereby adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. Our off-deck business relies extensively on marketing, advertising and promoting its products and services requiring it to have an understanding of the local laws and regulations governing its business. In the event that we have relied on inaccurate information or advice, and engage in marketing, advertising or promotional activities that are not permitted, we may be subject to penalties, restricted from engaging in further activities or altogether prohibited from offering our products and services in a particular territory, all or any of which will adversely impact our revenues and thus our operating results and financial condition. The strategic direction of the Digital Turbine business is not proven or certain. The business model that Digital Turbine is pursuing, white label storefront solutions, is not proven. There are many different types of models including, but not limited to, up-front fees, revenue shares, per device fees, and advertising. Initial feedback from customers shows preference for different types of models. This could lead to risk in predicting future revenues and profits by individual customers. In particular, the ‘free’ download market is reliant upon mobile advertising and the mobile advertising market is still in a nascent phase of monetization. In addition, our strategy for Digital Turbine entails offering its platform to Twistbox customers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully market new services and offerings to Twistbox customers. Moreover, in order to credibly offer the IQ platform, we will need to achieve additional operational and technical achievements to further develop the product. While we remain optimistic about our ability to complete this build out, it will be subject to all of the risks attendant to development efforts as well as the need to provide additional capital to the effort. Risks Relating to Our Industry Wireless communications technologies are changing rapidly, and we may not be successful in working with these new technologies. Wireless network and mobile handset technologies are undergoing rapid innovation. New handsets with more advanced processors and supporting advanced programming languages continue to be introduced. In addition, networks that enable enhanced features are being developed and deployed. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these products or technologies. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, the available channels for our products and services may be limited and our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and develop products and services to accommodate evolving industry standards with improved performance and reliability. In addition, the widespread adoption of networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our products and services. Technology changes in the wireless industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services, and other mobile entertainment products, competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to those of our competitors, less appealing to end users, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within our original development schedule, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce our revenues, increase our development expenses and harm our reputation. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt either to preserve our product launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. In either case, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. The complexity of and incompatibilities among mobile handsets may require us to use additional resources for the development of our products and services. To reach large numbers of wireless subscribers, mobile entertainment publishers and white label storefront providers we must support numerous mobile handsets and technologies. However, keeping pace with the rapid innovation of handset technologies together with the continuous introduction of new, and often incompatible, handset models by wireless carriers requires us to make significant investments in research and development, including personnel, technologies and equipment. In the future, we may be required to make substantial investments in our development if the number of different types of handset models continues to proliferate. In addition, as more advanced handsets are introduced that enable more complex, feature rich products and services, we anticipate that our development costs will increase, which could increase the risks associated with one or more of our products or services and could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. If wireless subscribers do not continue to use their mobile handsets to access mobile entertainment and other applications, our business growth and future revenues may be adversely affected. We operate in a developing industry. Our success depends on growth in the number of wireless subscribers who use their handsets to access data services and, in particular, entertainment applications of the type we develop and distribute. New or different mobile entertainment 17 Table of Contents applications developed by our current or future competitors may be preferred by subscribers to our offerings. In addition, other mobile platforms may become widespread, and end users may choose to switch to these platforms. If the market for our products and services does not continue to grow or we are unable to acquire new end users, our business growth and future revenues could be adversely affected. If end users switch their entertainment spending away from the kinds of offerings that we publish, or switch to platforms or distribution where we do not have comparative strengths, our revenues would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. Our industry is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include: the popularity, price and timing of release of our offerings and mobile handsets on which they are accessed; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. A shift of technology platform by wireless carriers and mobile handset manufacturers could lengthen the development period for our offerings, increase our costs and cause our offerings to be of lower quality or to be published later than anticipated. Mobile handsets require multimedia capabilities enabled by technologies capable of running applications such as ours. Our development resources are concentrated in today’s most popular platforms, and we have experience developing applications for these platforms. If one or more of these technologies fall out of favor with handset manufacturers and wireless carriers and there is a rapid shift to a new technology where we do not have development experience or resources, the development period for our products and services may be lengthened, increasing our costs, and the resulting products and services may be of lower quality, and may be published later than anticipated. In such an event, our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition might suffer. System or network failures could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in a loss of end users of our products and services. Mobile publishers rely on wireless carriers’ networks to deliver products and services to end users and on their or other third parties’ billing systems to track and account for the downloading of such offerings. In certain circumstances, mobile publishers may also rely on their own servers to deliver products on demand to end users through their carriers’ networks. In addition, certain products require access over the mobile Internet to our servers in order to enable certain features. Any failure of, or technical problem with, carriers’, third parties’ or our billing systems, delivery systems, information systems or communications networks could result in the inability of end users to download our products, prevent the completion of a billing transaction, or interfere with access to some aspects of our products. If any of these systems fail or if there is an interruption in the supply of power, an earthquake, fire, flood or other natural disaster, or an act of war or terrorism, end users might be unable to access our offerings. For example, from time to time, our carriers have experienced failures with their billing and delivery systems and communication networks, including gateway failures that reduced the provisioning capacity of their branded e-commerce system. Any failure of, or technical problem with, the carriers’, other third parties’ or our systems could cause us to lose end users or revenues or incur substantial repair costs and distract management from operating our business. This, in turn, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends on the growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure. Our success will depend on the continued growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure in the United States and internationally. This includes deployment and maintenance of reliable next-generation digital networks with the speed, data capacity and security necessary to provide reliable wireless communications services. Wireless communications infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of subscribers continues to increase, or if existing or future subscribers increase their bandwidth requirements. Wireless communications have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of infrastructure and equipment failures, and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of wireless communications usage as well as our ability to distribute our products and services successfully. In addition, changes by a wireless carrier to network infrastructure may interfere with downloads and may cause end users to lose functionality. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Future mobile handsets may significantly reduce or eliminate wireless carriers’ control over delivery of our products and services and force us to rely further on alternative sales channels, which, if not successful, could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. A growing number of handset models currently available allow wireless subscribers to browse the Internet and, in some cases, download applications from sources other than through a carrier’s on-deck portal. In addition, the development of other application delivery mechanisms such as premium-SMS may enable subscribers to download applications without having to access a carrier’s on-deck portal. Increased use by subscribers of open operating system handsets or premium-SMS delivery systems will enable them to bypass the carriers’ on-deck portal and could reduce the market power of carriers. This could force us to rely further on alternative sales channels and could require us to increase our sales and marketing expenses significantly. Relying on placement of our products and services in the menus of off-deck distributors may result in lower revenues than might otherwise be anticipated. We may be unable to develop and promote our direct website distribution sufficiently to overcome the limitations and disadvantages of off-deck distribution channels. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in mobile handsets or wireless networks could adversely affect our revenues. Maintaining the security of mobile handsets and wireless networks is critical for our business. There are individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other illicit code or malicious software programs that may attack wireless networks and handsets. Security experts have identified computer “worm” programs that target handsets running on certain operating systems. Although these worms have not been widely released and do not present an immediate risk to our business, we believe future threats could lead some end users to seek to reduce or delay future purchases of our products or reduce or delay the use of their handsets. Wireless carriers and handset manufacturers may also increase their expenditures on protecting their wireless networks and mobile phone products from attack, which could delay adoption of new handset models. Any of these activities could adversely affect our revenues and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in government regulation of the media and wireless communications industries may adversely affect our business. A number of laws and regulations have been and likely will continue to be adopted in the United States and elsewhere that could restrict the media and wireless communications industries, including laws and regulations regarding customer privacy, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through wireless carriers. We anticipate that regulation of our industry will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States or elsewhere regarding the media and wireless communications industries may lessen the growth of wireless communications services and may materially reduce our ability to increase or maintain sales of our products and services. A number of studies have examined the health effects of mobile phone use, and the results of some of the studies have been interpreted as evidence that mobile phone use causes adverse health effects. The establishment of a link between the use of mobile phone services and health problems, or any media reports suggesting such a link, could increase government regulation of, and reduce demand for, mobile phones and, accordingly, the demand for our products and services, and this could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Management, Employees and Potential Acquisitions Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key personnel, who are in high demand. We depend on the continued contributions of our domestic and international senior management and other key personnel. We have had two people fill the position of Chief Executive Officer in the last 3 years, and we are currently trying to retain a Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Because not all of our executive officers and key employees are under employment agreements or are under agreement with short terms, their future employment with the Company is uncertain. In addition our Chief Executive Officer’s employment agreement is out of term and our Chief Executive Officer continues to serve the Company for the same salary and benefits as existed under his most recent employment agreement. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, finance, marketing and creative personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing and mobile entertainment companies. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the Los Angeles area, where our headquarters are located. Further, we conduct international operations in Germany, Israel and Australia, areas that, similar to our headquarters region, have high costs of living and consequently high compensation standards and/or intense demand for qualified individuals which may require us to incur significant costs to attract them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing creative, operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business would suffer. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Some of our senior management personnel and other key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Please refer to Item 9A of this Form 10k filing regarding the material weakness in controls due to lack of personnel. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We operate in an emerging market and have experienced, and may continue to experience, growth in our business through internal growth and acquisitions. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Continued growth could strain our ability to: • develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls; • enhance our reporting systems and procedures; 19 Table of Contents • recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel; • maintain our quality standards; and • maintain branded content owner, wireless carrier and end-user satisfaction. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The acquisition of other companies, businesses or technologies could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We have made acquisitions and, although we have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to do so (except as otherwise disclosed within this document), we may pursue further acquisitions, any of which could be material to our business, operating results and financial condition. Future acquisitions could divert management’s time and focus from operating our business, even in instances where acquisition negotiations are unsuccessful. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. We may also raise additional capital for the acquisition of, or investment in, companies, technologies, products or assets that complement our business. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, including our common stock, or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or acquired in-process research and development expenses, any of which could harm our financial condition and operating results. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. International acquisitions involve risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our earnings based on this impairment assessment process, which could harm our operating results. The acquisition of Logia Mobile and Mirror Image Access Pty Ltd. might not be successful, or accretive to long-term shareholder value. While we believe that targeted acquisitions such as Logia Mobile and Mirror Image Access Pty Ltd. will facilitate accelerated distribution for the DT user experience, there is no assurance that this will be the case or that we will be able to generate significant growth in revenues from Logia’s or MIA’s mobile customers or from other potential acquisitions. In particular, a significant portion of Logia Mobile’s revenue comes from one large mobile operator customer while Mirror Image Access Pty. Ltd derives significant revenue from four (4) main large mobile operator customers and both Logia Mobile and Mirror Image Access Pty Ltd are reliant upon that small group of customers for a significant portion of their operating cash flow. In addition, there is no assurance that mobile operators will be successful and continue to want to compete with other mobile storefronts, and they may decide they simply want to provide network access to their customers. The solutions are complex with many different components and there is risk in the ability to integrate all of these various components into a single solution. Changes to financial accounting standards could make it more expensive to issue stock options to employees, which would increase compensation costs and might cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”) and various other bodies. A change in those principles could have a significant effect on our reported results and might affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. For example, we have used restricted stock and stock options grants as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. We believe that such grants directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain in our employ. Several regulatory agencies and entities have made regulatory changes that could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant stock options or restricted stock to employees. We may, as a result of these changes, incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. As we pursue and complete strategic acquisitions, divestitures or joint ventures, including our acquisition of Logia and MIA, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses. We recently completed the acquisition of Logia and MIA, and we continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, divestitures, or joint ventures with third parties. These transactions create risks such as: • disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; • problems retaining key personnel of the companies involved in the transactions; • operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest; • the potential impairment of tangible assets, intangible assets and goodwill acquired in the acquisitions; • the difficulty of incorporating an acquired business into our business and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • potential operational deficiencies in the acquired business and personnel inexperienced in preparing and delivering disclosure information required for a U.S. public company; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with a business we acquire or in which we invest. In the event of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, incur debt, or take on contingent liabilities, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Risks Related to the Economy in the United States and Globally The effects of the recent recession in the United States and general downturn in the global economy, including financial market disruptions, could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our operating results also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the United States and the global economy. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition in a number of ways including negatively affecting our profitability and causing our stock price to decline. The Company is expanding and developing internationally, and our increasing foreign operations and exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may increase. With the acquisition of Logia and MIA, we have expanded, and we expect that we will continue to expand, our international operations. International operations inherently subject us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • changes in international regulatory and compliance requirements that could restrict our ability to develop, market and sell our products; • social, political or economic instability or recessions; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; • difficulty in hiring, staffing and managing qualified and proficient local employees and advisors to run international operations; • the difficulty of managing and operating an international enterprise, including difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees and customers due to distance, language and cultural barriers; • differing labor regulations and business practices; • higher operating costs due to local laws or regulations; • fluctuations in foreign economies and currency exchange rates; • difficulty in enforcing agreements; and • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, post-acquisition. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations and distribution, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth. We expect international sales to continue to be an important component of our revenues. Risks affecting our international operations include: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • multiple and conflicting laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in these laws and regulations; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • higher costs associated with doing business internationally; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • greater fluctuations in sales to end users and through carriers in developing countries, including longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries; • foreign tax consequences; • foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned in countries outside the United States; • price controls; • the servicing of regions by many different carriers; • imposition of public sector controls; • political, economic and social instability, including relating to the current European sovereign debt crisis; • restrictions on the export or import of technology; • trade and tariff restrictions; • variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; and • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. In addition, developing user interfaces that are compatible with other languages or cultures can be expensive. As a result, our ongoing international expansion efforts may be more costly than we expect. Further, expansion into developing countries subjects us to the effects of regional instability, civil unrest and hostilities, and could adversely affect us by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The Company is expanding and developing internationally, and our increasing foreign operations and exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may increase. With the acquisition of Logia in September 2012, and MIA in April 2013, we have expanded, and we expect that we will continue to expand, our international operations. International operations inherently subject us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • changes in international regulatory and compliance requirements that could restrict our ability to develop, market and sell our products; • social, political or economic instability or recessions; • diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States; • difficulty in hiring, staffing and managing qualified and proficient local employees and advisors to run international operations; • the difficulty of managing and operating an international enterprise, including difficulties in maintaining effective communications with employees and customers due to distance, language and cultural barriers; • differing labor regulations and business practices; • higher operating costs due to local laws or regulations; • fluctuations in foreign economies and currency exchange rates; • difficulty in enforcing agreements; and • potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws, post-acquisition. Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Potential Liability, our Intellectual Property and our Content If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual property and our competitive position may be adversely affected. Our intellectual property is an essential element of our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. To date, we have not obtained patent protection. Consequently, we may not be able to protect our technologies from independent invention by third parties. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by outside parties, or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. We also face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that our international trademark applications may be considered too generic or that the words “Digital” or “Turbine” could be separately or compositely trademarked by third parties with competitive products who may try and block our applications or sue us for trademark dilution which could have adverse effects on our financial status. 21 Table of Contents Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise to obtain and use our intellectual property. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent infringement, piracy, and other unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, particularly internationally where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management and resources. In addition, although we require third parties to sign agreements not to disclose or improperly use our intellectual property, it may still be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual properties without our consent. This could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement, which, if successful, may disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement or initiate proceedings to invalidate our intellectual property, either of which, if successful, could disrupt the conduct of our business, cause us to pay significant damage awards or require us to pay licensing fees. In the event of a successful claim against us, we might be enjoined from using our licensed intellectual property, we might incur significant licensing fees and we might be forced to develop alternative technologies. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or software or to license the infringed or similar technology or software on a timely basis could force us to withdraw products and services from the market or prevent us from introducing new products and services. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or software, license fees could be substantial and the terms of these licenses could be burdensome, which might adversely affect our operating results. We might also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us might result in substantial monetary liabilities and might materially disrupt the conduct of our business. Litigation may harm our business. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur significant costs and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, customers, competitors, end-users or others could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies, organizations or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes or on terms favorable to us. Unexpected results could cause us to have financial exposure in these matters in excess of recorded reserves and insurance coverage, requiring us to provide additional reserves to address these liabilities, therefore impacting profits. Carriers or other customers have and may try to include us as defendants in suits brought against them by their own customers or third parties. In such cases, the risks and expenses would be similar to those where we are the party directly involved in the litigation. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by malicious software and other losses. In the ordinary course of our business, most of our agreements with carriers and other distributors include indemnification provisions. In these provisions, we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our products and services, including as a result of intellectual property infringement and damages caused by viruses, worms and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding license agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions is generally unlimited. Large future indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations. We currently transact a significant portion of our revenues in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies impact our revenues, cost of revenues and operating margins and result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate-hedging activities. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments, including with government owned or controlled wireless carriers, increase the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by the United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, deal with carriers and make sales in countries known to experience corruption, particularly certain emerging countries in Eastern Europe and Latin America, and further international expansion may involve more of these countries. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have attempted to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees, consultants, 22 Table of Contents sales agents and distributors. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be liable for the content we make available through our products and services with mature themes. Because some of our products and services contain content with mature themes, we may be subject to obscenity or other legal claims by third parties. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed if we were found liable for this content. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our products and services and/or its availability in various geographic areas, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue. Furthermore, our insurance may not adequately protect us against all of these types of claims. Additionally, we could continue to be exposed to these claims and potential liability even if and after we decide to sell such assets. Government regulation of our content with mature themes could restrict our ability to make some of our content available in certain jurisdictions. Our business is regulated by governmental authorities in the countries in which we operate. Because of our international operations, we must comply with diverse and evolving regulations. The governments of some countries have sought to limit the influence of other cultures by restricting the distribution of products deemed to represent foreign or “immoral” influences. Regulation aimed at limiting minors’ access to content with mature themes could also increase our cost of operations and introduce technological challenges, such as by requiring development and implementation of age verification systems. As a result, government regulation of our adult content could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Government regulation of our marketing methods could restrict our ability to adequately advertise and promote our content and services available in certain jurisdictions. The governments of some countries have sought to regulate the methods and manner in which certain of our products and services may be marketed to potential end-users. Regulation aimed at prohibiting, limiting or restricting various forms of advertising and promotion we use to market our products and services could also increase our cost of operations or preclude the ability to offer our products and services altogether. As a result, government regulation of our marketing efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by opponents of content with mature themes could adversely affect our operating performance and discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. We could become a target of negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts by one or more advocacy groups who oppose the distribution of adult-oriented entertainment. These groups have mounted negative publicity campaigns, filed lawsuits and encouraged boycotts against companies whose businesses involve adult-oriented entertainment. To the extent our content with mature themes is viewed as adult-oriented entertainment, the costs of defending against any such negative publicity, lawsuits or boycotts could be significant, could hurt our finances and could discourage investors from investing in our publicly traded securities. To date, we have not been a target of any of these advocacy groups. As a provider of content with mature themes, we cannot assure you that we may not become a target in the future. 23 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, and you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the current price. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including announcements of new products or services by our competitors. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: • quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; • developments in the financial markets, and the worldwide or regional economies; • announcements of innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • fluctuations in merchant credit card interest rates; • significant sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and • changes in accounting principles. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder were to file any such class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation, which could harm our business. The sale of securities by us in any equity or debt financing, or the issuance of new shares related to an acquisition, could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Any sale or issuance of common stock by us in a future offering or acquisition could result in dilution to the existing stockholders as a direct result of our issuance of additional shares of our capital stock. In addition, our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth by acquiring complimentary businesses, acquiring or licensing additional brands, or establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so, or to finance the cost of our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our stockholders’ stock ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company, and this could negatively impact our earnings and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. The operation of our business and our efforts to grow our business will further require significant cash outlays and commitments. If our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and any cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the fair market value of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If new sources of financing are required but are insufficient or unavailable, we would be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business or us. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, our common stock price would likely decline. If analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not anticipate paying dividends. We have never paid cash or other dividends on our common stock. Payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, our capital requirements and financial condition, and other factors 24 Table of Contents deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. However, the earliest our Board of Directors would likely consider a dividend is if we begin to generate excess cash flow. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders can exert significant influence over us and may make decisions that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. Our officers, directors and principal stockholders (greater than 5% stockholders) collectively beneficially own approximately 55.6% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, this group will be able to affect the outcome of, or exert significant influence over, all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any change in control. In particular, this concentration of ownership of our common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us or otherwise discouraging or preventing a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us. This, in turn, could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. It could also prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. Moreover, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and, accordingly, this group could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. We are in the process of strengthening and testing our system of internal controls. The process of implementing our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming and requires significant attention of management. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we discover a material weakness or a significant deficiency in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, if we fail to comply with the applicable portions of Section 404, we could be subject to a variety of administrative sanctions, including ineligibility for short form resale registration, action by the SEC, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which could further reduce our stock price and harm our business. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The requirements of these rules and regulations has resulted in an increase in our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, may make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. For example, we depend on the reports of wireless carriers for information regarding the amount of sales of our products and services and to determine the amount of royalties we owe branded content licensors and the amount of our revenues. These reports may not be timely, and in the past they have contained, and in the future they may contain, errors. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we expend significant resources and provide significant management oversight. We have a substantial effort ahead of us to implement appropriate processes, document our system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test their operation. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These efforts will also involve substantial accounting-related costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act makes it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required in the future to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors, and officers will be significantly curtailed. The ownership interest of our current stockholders will be substantially diluted if our outstanding securities convertible and/or exercisable into shares of our common stock are converted and/or exercised. As of June 28, 2013, we had an aggregate of approximately $4,133,080 of Convertible Notes convertible into 4,220,776 shares of our common stock, and warrants to purchase 4,084,025 shares of our common stock. To the extent our outstanding securities convertible and/or exercisable into shares of our common stock are converted and/or exercised, additional shares of our common stock will be issued, which will result in dilution to our stockholders and increase the number of shares of common stock eligible for resale into the public market. Sales of such shares of common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents Shares eligible for future sale As of June 14, 2013, 14,699,345 of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly. Shares of restricted common stock are generally available for resale following a six month holding period. As restrictions on resale end, the market price could drop significantly if the holders of these restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. 26 Table of Contents 