Item 1A. Risk Factors — If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected.” and “- Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.”) Human Resources As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 17,500 staff members, which includes approximately 100 part-time staff members. Of the total staff members as of December 31, 2007, approximately 7,000 were engaged in R&D, approximately 2,950 were engaged in selling and marketing, approximately 5,600 were engaged in commercial manufacturing activities and approximately 1,950 were engaged in other activities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue attracting and retaining qualified personnel in sufficient numbers to meet our needs. None of our staff members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we have experienced no work stoppages. We consider our staff relations to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The executive officers of the Company as of January 31, 2008 are as follows: Mr. Kevin W. Sharer, age 59, has served as a director of the Company since November 1992. Since May 2000, Mr. Sharer has been Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company and has also been Chairman of the Board since December 2000. From October 1992 to May 2000, Mr. Sharer served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. From April 1989 to October 1992, Mr. Sharer was President of the Business Markets Division of MCI Communications Corporation (“MCI”). From February 1984 to March 1989, Mr. Sharer held numerous executive capacities at General Electric Company (“GE”). Mr. Sharer is a director of Chevron Corporation and Northrop Grumman Corporation. Dr. Fabrizio Bonanni, age 61, became Executive Vice President, Operations in August 2007. He has served as Senior Vice President, Manufacturing of the Company since 2004. Dr. Bonanni joined the Company in 1999 36 Table of Contents as Senior Vice President, Quality and Compliance and in June 2001 he also became the Corporate Compliance Officer. Previously, Dr. Bonanni held various management positions at Baxter International, Inc. from 1974 to 1999, including positions as Corporate Vice President, Regulatory and Clinical Affairs and Corporate Vice President, Quality System. Mr. Robert A. Bradway, age 45, became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in April 2007. He joined the Company in 2006 as Vice President, Operations Strategy. Previously, Mr. Bradway had an 18 year career at Morgan Stanley in New York and London where he was a managing director in investment banking. Mr. Bradway led Morgan Stanley’s healthcare practice in Europe for several years and also ran Morgan Stanley’s European banking department. Mr. Thomas J. Flanagan, age 58, became Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 2006. From June 2004 to October 2006, Mr. Flanagan served as Vice President, Information Systems. From December 1995 to May 2004, Mr. Flanagan served in a variety of executive positions including Chief Information Officer and Vice President, Global Service Delivery at MCI. Mr. Brian McNamee, age 51, became Senior Vice President, Human Resources in June 2001. From November 1999 to June 2001, Mr. McNamee served as Vice President of Human Resources at Dell Computer Corp. From 1998 to 1999, Mr. McNamee served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for the National Broadcasting Corporation, a division of GE. From July 1988 to November 1999, Mr. McNamee held human resource positions at GE. Mr. George J. Morrow, age 55, became Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing in January 2001 and became Executive Vice President, Global Commercial Operations in April 2003. From January 1999 to December 2000, Mr. Morrow was President and Chief Executive Officer of Glaxo Wellcome Inc. (“Glaxo”), a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline. From January 1997 to December 1998, Mr. Morrow was Managing Director of Glaxo Wellcome U.K., also a subsidiary of GlaxoSmithKline. From May 1993 to December 1996, Mr. Morrow was Group Vice President for Commercial Operations of Glaxo. Mr. Morrow currently serves on the Board of Directors of Align Technology, Inc. Dr. Roger M. Perlmutter, age 55, became Executive Vice President of Research and Development in January 2001. From July 1999 to December 2000, Dr. Perlmutter was Executive Vice President, Worldwide Basic Research and Preclinical Development of Merck Research Laboratories. From February 1999 to July 1999, Dr. Perlmutter served as Executive Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories, and from February 1997 to January 1999, as Senior Vice President of Merck Research Laboratories. From May 1989 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter was also Chairman of the Department of Immunology, University of Washington, and from January 1991 to January 1997, Professor in the Departments of Immunology, Biochemistry and Medicine, University of Washington. From July 1984 to January 1997, Dr. Perlmutter served as Investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at the University of Washington. Dr. Perlmutter currently serves on the Board of Directors of StemCells, Inc. Mr. David J. Scott, age 55, became Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in March 2004. From May 1999 to February 2004, Mr. Scott served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Medtronic, Inc. and also as Secretary from January 2000. From December 1997 to April 1999, Mr. Scott served as General Counsel of London-based United Distillers & Vintners. Mr. Scott also served in executive roles at Grand Metropolitan plc and RJR Nabisco, Inc., and was an attorney in private practice. Geographic Area Financial Information For financial information concerning the geographic areas in which we operate, see Note 11, “Segment information — Geographic information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Investor Information Financial and other information about us is available on our website (http://www.amgen.com) (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in our website is not intended to 37 Table of Contents be a part of this filing). We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others on our behalf, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, operations, liquidity and stock price materially and adversely. Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market. We and certain of our licensees and partners conduct research, preclinical testing and clinical trials for our product candidates and marketed product for both their existing indications as well as for new and/or expanded indications. In addition, we manufacture and contract manufacture, and certain of our licensees and partners manufacture our products and product candidates, price, sell, distribute and market or co-market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in foreign countries, such as the EMEA in European countries, Canada and Australia. Currently, we are required in the United States and in foreign countries to obtain approval from those countries’ regulatory authorities before we can manufacture (or have our third-party manufacturers produce), market and sell our products in those countries. The FDA and other U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies have substantial authority to fail to approve commencement of, suspend or terminate clinical trials, require additional testing, delay or withhold registration and marketing approval, mandate product withdrawals and require changes in labeling (including eliminating certain therapeutic indications) of our products. On September 27, 2007, President Bush signed into law the FDAAA, significantly adding to the FDA’s authority including allowing the FDA to (i) require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; (ii) mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product’s lifecycle, based on new safety information and (iii) require sponsors to implement a REMS for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers, or other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. Failure to comply with the new requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the FDA under the FDAAA, could result in significant civil monetary penalties. Further, regulatory agencies could change existing, or promulgate new, regulations at any time which may affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our existing or future products or require significant additional costs to obtain or maintain such approvals. In our experience, obtaining regulatory approval has been and continues to be increasingly difficult and costly and takes many years, and after it is obtained remains costly to maintain. With the occurrence of a number of high profile safety events with certain pharmaceutical products, regulatory authorities, and in particular the FDA, members of Congress, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (“GAO”), Congressional committees, private health/science foundations and organizations, medical professionals, including physicians and investigators, and the general public are increasingly concerned about potential or perceived safety issues associated with pharmaceutical and biological products, whether under study for initial approval or already marketed. For example, we have received letters from both the House Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigation, Committee on Energy 38 Table of Contents and Commerce and the United States Senate Committee on Finance with inquiries with respect to our ESA studies, promotions of our ESA and our pharmacovigilance program to which we have fully cooperated by submitting our responses and meeting with Congressional staff. To the extent that there is resulting legislation or changes in CMS or FDA policy as a result of Congressional concerns, such changes could have a material or adverse effect on the use of our ESA products. As a result of this increasing concern, potential or perceived safety signals and safety concerns, from clinical trials, use by the market or other sources, are receiving greater scrutiny, which may lead to fewer treatments being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies, revised labeling of an approved product or a class of products for safety reasons, potentially including a boxed warning or additional limitations on the use of approved products in specific therapeutic areas (until additional clinical trials can be designed and completed), mandated PMCs, pharmacovigilance programs for approved products or requirement of risk management activities related to the promotion and sale of a product. In addition, significant concerns about the safety and effectiveness of our products could ultimately lead to the revocation of marketing approval by therapeutic area, or in total, which would have a material adverse effect on the use, sales and reimbursement of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. (See “— Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.”) Certain specific labeling or label changes of approved products or product candidates may be necessary or required for a number of reasons, including: the identification of actual or theoretical safety or efficacy concerns by regulatory agencies, the discovery of significant problems with a similar product that implicates an entire class of products, subsequent concerns about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying the label or changes to the underlying safety/efficacy analysis related to results from clinical trials performed by us or others. In addition, before or after any of our products are approved for commercial use, regulatory bodies could decide that the product labels need to include certain warning language as part of an evolving label change to a particular class of products. For example, in March and November 2007, the labels of the class of ESA products, including Aranesp® and EPOGEN®, were updated to include revised boxed warnings, restrictions on the use of ESAs in specific therapeutic areas and other safety-related product labeling changes. We continue to be in discussion with the FDA to complete further revisions to our ESA labels. (See “— Recent labeling updates to our ESAs and potential future labeling changes or recommendations from the upcoming March 13, 2008 ODAC meeting may adversely impact the use, sales and reimbursement of our ESAs.”) The FDA previously instituted a class label change for the class of ESAs to add information about pure red cell aplasia (“PRCA”) to the adverse event profile section and for the boxed warning in the prescribing information of the label described above. A revision of product labeling or the regulatory actions described above could be required even if there is no clearly established connection between the product and the safety or efficacy concerns that have been raised. Also in October 2007, we announced that we and the FDA adopted changes to the U.S. prescribing information for Vectibix™ based on the results of the PACCE trial highlighting to clinicians the greater risk seen when Vectibix™ is combined with Avastin® and the specific chemotherapy used in the PACCE trial to treat patients with first-line mCRC. Vectibix™ is not indicated for the first-line treatment of mCRC and the new safety information applies to an unapproved use of Vectibix™. Additionally, we are in discussions with the FDA with respect to the class of TNF inhibitor agents around several safety issues, which may result in additional patient safety information in the form of a boxed warning that will apply to the ENBREL label as has been the case with other TNF inhibitor agents. In addition, if we or others identify safety concerns before approval of the product or after a product is on the market, the regulatory agencies such as the FDA or EMEA may impose risk management activities upon us and/or may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of PMCs or a pharmacovigilance program prior to the marketing approval of our product or for approval of a new indication for a marketed product, any of which could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Regulatory agencies such as the FDA could require us to engage in risk management activities, possibly including a REMS, which could modify or restrict our existing promotional activities, restrict or encumber the ability of healthcare providers to prescribe, dispense or use our products or limit patient access to our products. In addition to our ESA products, we have ongoing PMC studies for substantially all of our 39 Table of Contents marketed products other than Sensipar®. These clinical trials must be conducted by us to maintain regulatory approval and marketing authorization. For example, we have agreed with the FDA to a robust pharmacovigilance program to continue to study the safety surrounding the use of ESAs in certain cancer indications. (See “— Recent labeling updates to our ESAs and potential future labeling changes or recommendations from the upcoming March 13, 2008 ODAC meeting may adversely impact the use, sales and reimbursement of our ESAs.” and “Item 1. Business — Postmarketing and Safety Activities.”) Additionally, the approval of VectibixTM in both the United States and EU were conditioned on us conducting additional clinical trials of the use of VectibixTM as a therapy in treating mCRC. If results from mandated clinical trials as part of a PMC or pharmacovigilance program are negative or any risk management activities resulted in decreased use of our products, it could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Substantially all of our marketed products are currently approved in the United States and most are approved in Europe and in other foreign countries for specific uses. However, later discovery of unknown problems with our products could result in the regulatory activities described above or even the potential withdrawal of the product in certain therapeutic areas or certain product presentations, or completely, from the market. If new medical data suggests an unacceptable safety risk or previously unidentified side-effects, we may voluntarily withdraw, or regulatory authorities may mandate the withdrawal of such product in certain therapeutic areas, or completely or a recall of a product presentation from the market for some period or permanently. For example in 2006, we initiated a voluntary recall of the Neulasta® SureClick™ pre-filled pen in Europe because of the potential risk to patients of receiving an incomplete dose and we conducted a voluntary wholesaler recall of a limited number of lots of ENBREL as a result of a small number of reports of missing, detached or loose rubber caps on the needle-less syringe filled with diluent liquid by a third-party contract manufacturer and packaged with the vials of ENBREL. Although there have been no observable adverse event trends associated with the Neulasta® SureClick™ pre-filled pen or with the reports of missing, detached or loose rubber caps on the needle-less syringe packaged with the ENBREL vials, we may experience the same or other problems in the future resulting in broader product recalls or adverse event trends. Additionally, if other parties (including our licensees, such as J&J and Wyeth, or independent investigators) fail to effectively report to regulatory agencies side effects or other safety concerns that occur from their use of our products in clinical trials or studies or from marketed use, regulatory approval may be withdrawn for a product for the therapeutic area in question, or completely, or other risk management activities may be imposed by regulators. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our licensees or partners conducting R&D activities on our behalf have not complied with regulations in the R&D of a product candidate, new indication for an existing product or information to support a current indication, then they may not approve the product candidate or new indication or maintain approval of the current indication in its current form or at all, and we will not be able to market and sell it. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, safety signals or adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others (including our licensees or independent investigators) from the marketed use of our drugs that resulted in revised safety labeling or restrictions on the use of our approved products could negatively impact healthcare provider prescribing behavior, use of our products, regulatory or private health organization medical guidelines and reimbursement for our products all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. (See “— Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.” and “— Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.”) Recent labeling updates to our ESAs and potential future labeling changes or recommendations from the upcoming March 13, 2008 ODAC meeting may adversely impact the use, sales and reimbursement of our ESAs. On March 9, 2007, based upon data from our AoC 103 Study, J&J’s CHOIR study, and preliminary data from the third-party investigator DAHANCA 10 Study, among others, the FDA approved updated safety information, including a boxed warning, in the prescribing information for the class of ESAs, including Aranesp® and EPOGEN®. On May 10, 2007, the ODAC held a panel meeting to discuss the safety/efficacy profile of ESA 40 Table of Contents use in oncology. Responding to questions posed by the FDA, the ODAC recommended that more restrictions be added to ESA labels and that additional clinical trials be conducted by companies with currently approved ESAs, including us, although no specific restrictions or studies were recommended at the ODAC meeting. The committee is advisory and FDA officials are not bound to or limited by its recommendations. However, the FDA has commonly followed the recommendations of its advisory panels. Although not required, the FDA has and will likely continue to take into consideration the recommendations by the ODAC in its ongoing discussions with us regarding our ESAs. The FDA also held a joint meeting of the CRDAC and the DSaRMAC on September 11, 2007, which evaluated the safety data on ESA use in renal disease. On November 8, 2007, in recognition of the input from the May 2007 ODAC and September 2007 joint CRDAC/DSaRMAC meetings, we announced additional updates to the Aranesp® and EPOGEN®/PROCRIT® package inserts which reflected ongoing interactions with the FDA regarding the safety and benefit/risk profile of ESAs. The changes to the ESA labels included modifications to the boxed warnings which included language with respect to renal failure which stated that “patients experienced greater risks for death and serious cardiovascular events when administered ESAs to target higher versus lower hemoglobin levels (13.5 vs. 11.3 g/dL; 14 vs. 10 g/dL) in two clinical studies. Individualize dosing to achieve and maintain hemoglobin levels within the range of 10 to 12 g/dL.” The boxed warning for the cancer indication was updated to describe studies in patients with advanced breast, head and neck, lymphoid and NSCLC malignancies and stated that “the risks of shortened survival and tumor promotion have not been excluded when ESAs are dosed to target a hemoglobin of less than 12 g/dL. To minimize these risks as well as the risk of serious cardio- and thrombovascular events, use the lowest dose needed to avoid red blood cell transfusions.” Additional language was also added to the INDICATIONS AND USAGE section, and the WARNINGS section and clarification of the Hb range for CRF patients was added in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section. In addition, we are working with the FDA to design a large, definitive, well controlled study comparing the safety of ESAs administered to a maximum Hb target of 12 g/dL per the product labeling versus placebo in three major tumor types (NSCLC, breast cancer and advanced CRC). We have agreed on the general study design, and plan to submit a study protocol after obtaining guidance from ODAC. We and J&JPRD are in discussions with the FDA as to any additional studies that will be required to address remaining concerns in other disease settings. (See “Item 1. Business — Postmarketing and Safety Activities.”) The addition of these clinical trials to our pharmacovigilance program and any additional clinical trials required by the FDA could result in substantial additional expense, additional label restrictions, or the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our ESA products. (See “— Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected.”) We continue to work closely with the FDA to complete further labeling revisions to the class of ESAs, including Aranesp® and EPOGEN®. We are in discussions with the FDA regarding safety data from the PREPARE and GOG-191 studies including an updated box warning in the labeling information. These proposed labeling changes were submitted under the regulatory mechanism known as the CBE process. We continue to work closely with the FDA to complete further revisions to our ESA labels including proposed revisions to the product labeling we submitted to the FDA in December 2007 that addressed questions raised during the May 2007 ODAC meeting regarding Hb initiation, Hb ceiling, discontinuation of ESA therapy after chemotherapy and data from additional clinical studies. Additionally, the FDA has scheduled an ODAC meeting on March 13, 2008, as part of the ongoing pharmacovigilance review of ESAs. Although we cannot predict what additional action the FDA may require of us or what recommendations may arise from the March 13th ODAC meeting, further revisions to the labels for Aranesp® and EPOGEN® could have a material adverse impact on the reimbursement, use and sales for our ESA products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. (See “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are 41 Table of Contents on the market” and “— Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.”) Further, on October 29, 2007, the EMEA issued a press release about upcoming changes to product information for ESAs stipulating a uniform target Hb range for all ESAs of 10 g/dL to 12 g/dL with a warning not to exceed a concentration of 12 g/dL. We continue to be in discussions with the EMEA to finalize updates to ESA labels. If recommendations from the March 13, 2008 ODAC meeting were to influence the EMEA to add additional safety labeling to the class of ESAs, the reimbursement, use and sales of Aranesp® in Europe could be materially adversely affected. Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected. Before we can sell any products, we must conduct clinical trials which demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans for the indications sought or our existing products are safe and effective for use in humans in new indications sought. Additionally, we may be required to conduct additional trials as a condition of the approval of our label or as a result of perceived or existing safety concerns. The results of these clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain regulatory approval from regulatory authorities such as the FDA. Clinical trials are experiments conducted using our product candidates in human patients having the diseases or medical conditions we are trying to address. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. We are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims we are seeking or to support our existing label. The length of time, number of trial sites and patients required for clinical trials vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate or the extent of the safety concerns, postmarketing issues and/or exposure to patients and therefore, we may spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain trials. Our ability to complete our clinical trials in a timely fashion depends in large part on a number of key factors including protocol design, regulatory and institutional review board approval and the rate of patient enrollment in clinical trials. Patient enrollment is a function of several factors, including the size and location of the patient population, enrollment criteria and competition with other clinical trials for eligible patients. As such, there may be limited availability of patients who meet the criteria for certain clinical trials. Delays in planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, delays in regulatory approvals, associated delays in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. In addition, in order to increase the number of patients available for enrollment for our clinical trials, we have and will continue to open clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of new geographic locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including Russia, China, India and some Central and South American countries either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to identify and understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and regulatory aspects of our large, complex and regulatory diverse clinical trials, our clinical trials and corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates altogether or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. If we are unable to market and sell our product candidates or are unable to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Additional information on our clinical trials can be found on our website at (http://www.amgen.com). (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained on our website is not intended to be a part of this filing.) Patients may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects in the course of our, our licensees, partners or independent investigator’s clinical trials of our products that may delay the clinical program, require additional or longer trials to gain approval, prohibit regulatory approval of our product candidates or additional indications for our currently approved products, or may render the product candidate commercially infeasible or limit our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or at all. For example, as a result of observing an in- 42 Table of Contents creased frequency of cholecystitis, inflammation of the gall bladder, in patients treated with our late-stage product candidate motesanib diphosphate, we delayed our phase 3 trial in first-line NSCLC, which was previously expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 2006, until the second half of 2007. Clinical trials must be designed based on the current standard of medical care. However in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In these diseases, the duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on an out of date standard of medical care, limiting the utility and application of such trials. Of course, even if we successfully manage our clinical trials, we may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates, product label extensions or maintenance of our current labels on this basis. Further, clinical trials conducted by others, including our licensees, partners or independent investigators, may result in unfavorable clinical trials results that may call into question the safety of our products in off-label or on label uses that may result in label restrictions and/or additional trials. In connection with our efforts to improve our cost structure, we refocused our spending on critical R&D and operational priorities and sought greater efficiencies in how we conduct our business, including optimizing ongoing clinical trials and trial initiation. These efforts will assist in allowing us to provide continued support of key activities including (i) current and future postmarketing studies, including those with respect to our ESA products, Aranesp® and EPOGEN®; (ii) regulatory affairs, safety and compliance functions; (iii) clinical studies to advance our late-stage pipeline; (iv) the advancement of earlier stage compounds and (v) research efforts in the core areas of oncology, inflammation, bone and metabolic disorders. To the extent future sales are negatively affected as a result of additional regulatory and reimbursement developments or other challenges, we may be required to further adjust our R&D investment plans. Such actions could result in delays in obtaining approval or reductions in the number of indications and market potential of our product candidates. We also partner certain portions and/or geographic regions of our pipeline to preserve opportunities that may result in sharing the positive economic results with another party. Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products. Sales of all of our principal products are dependent, in part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including governments and private insurance plans. Generally, in Europe and other countries outside the United States, the government sponsored healthcare system is the primary payer of healthcare costs of patients. Governments may regulate access to, prices or reimbursement levels of our products to control costs or to affect levels of use of our products. Worldwide use of our products may be affected by these cost containment pressures and cost shifting from governments and private insurers to healthcare providers or patients in response to ongoing initiatives to reduce or reallocate healthcare expenditures. Further, adverse events or results from clinical trials or studies performed by us or by others or from the marketed use of our drugs may expand safety labeling for our approved products and may negatively impact worldwide reimbursement for our products. On July 30, 2007, the CMS issued its Decision Memorandum and on January 14, 2008, issued changes to its Medicare National Coverage Determinations Manual, effective for claims with dates of service on or after July 30, 2007, with an implementation date of April 7, 2008. A complete discussion of the Decision Memorandum follows below. (See also “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.” and “— Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.”) Most patients receiving Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® for approved indications are covered by government and/or private payer healthcare programs. Medicare and Medicaid government healthcare programs’ payment policies for drugs and biologicals are subject to various laws and regulations. Beginning in January 1, 2005 under the MMA, in the physician clinic setting and January 1, 2006, in the hospital outpatient and dialysis settings, Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® have been reimbursed under a Medicare Part B payment methodology that reimburses each product at 106% of its ASP (sometimes referred to as “ASP+6%”). Effective January 1, 2008, Medicare payment in the hospital outpatient setting reimburses each product at 105% of its 43 Table of Contents ASP. ASP is calculated by the manufacturer based on a statutorily defined formula and submitted to CMS. A product’s ASP is calculated on a quarterly basis and therefore may change each quarter. The ASP in effect for a given quarter (the “Current Period”) is based upon certain historical sales and sales incentive data covering a statutorily defined period of time preceding the Current Period. For example, the ASP based payment rate for Aranesp® that will be in effect for the second quarter of 2008 will be based in part on certain historical sales and sales incentive data for Aranesp® from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. CMS publishes the ASPs for products in advance of the quarter in which they go into effect. Any changes to the ASP calculations directly affect the Medicare reimbursement for our products administered in the physician office, dialysis facility and hospital outpatient setting. These calculations are regularly reviewed for completeness and based on such review, we have revised our reported ASPs to reflect calculation changes both prospectively and retroactively. Partially as a result of our methodology changes, our ASP reimbursement rate for EPOGEN® was reduced for the third quarter of 2007. In the United States, dialysis providers are primarily reimbursed for EPOGEN® by the federal government through the ESRD Program of Medicare. The ESRD Program reimburses approved providers for 80% of allowed dialysis costs; the remainder is paid by other sources, including patients, state Medicaid programs, private insurance, and to a lesser extent, state kidney patient programs. The ESRD Program reimbursement rate is established by federal law and is monitored and implemented by CMS. Effective January 1, 2006, the payment mechanism for separately reimbursed dialysis drugs in both free-standing and hospital-based dialysis centers, including EPOGEN® and Aranesp®, is reimbursed by Medicare at ASP+6% using the same payment amounts used in the physician clinic setting. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, based on its ongoing assessment for payment of Part B drugs, CMS instituted a single payment limit for Epoetin alfa (EPOGEN® and PROCRIT®). Although we cannot predict the payment levels of EPOGEN® in future quarters or whether Medicare payments for dialysis drugs may be modified by future federal legislation, a decrease in the reimbursement rate for EPOGEN® may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any changes to the ASP calculations directly affect the Medicare reimbursement for our products administered in the physician office, dialysis facility and hospital outpatient setting. These calculations are regularly reviewed for completeness and based on such review, we have revised our reported ASPs to reflect calculation changes both prospectively and retroactively. Partially as a result of our methodology changes, our ASP reimbursement rate for EPOGEN® was reduced for the third quarter of 2007. Since April 1, 2006, the Medicare reimbursement for ESAs administered to dialysis patients has been subject to a revised HMA-PM, a Medicare payment review mechanism used by CMS to audit EPOGEN® and Aranesp® utilization and appropriate hematocrit outcomes of dialysis patients. This policy, EMP, was revised, effective January 1, 2008, requiring a 50% reduction in Medicare reimbursement if a patient’s Hb is above 13 g/dL for three or more consecutive months. In addition, the EMP reduces the monthly dosing limits to 400,000 IUs of EPOGEN®, from 500,000 IUs, and to 1,200 mcgs of Aranesp®, from 1,500 mcgs. Changes resulting from the MMA, which beginning in 2005 lowered reimbursement for our products, could negatively affect product sales of some of our marketed products. However, we believe that our product sales for 2005, 2006 and 2007 were not significantly impacted by the reimbursement changes resulting from the MMA. However, additional provisions of the MMA and other regulations affecting reimbursement that have gone or may go into effect could affect our product sales and related sales growth in the future. For example, the MMA required a report to Congress and a demonstration project with regard to a bundled payment system for dialysis, including separately billable drugs and EPOGEN®. The report to Congress was issued on February 20, 2008, but the demonstration project, which was scheduled to start in January 2006, has been delayed with no announced start date. Bundling initiatives that have been implemented in other healthcare settings have resulted in lower utilization of services that had not previously been a part of the bundled payment. Because CMS is continuing to study bundled payments in the ESRD setting and legislation is possible, we cannot predict what impact a bundled payments system would have on sales of EPOGEN® or Aranesp® used in the treatment of persons receiving outpatient dialysis services. In addition, on December 29, 2006, the MedPAC released its second Congressionally-mandated report on the impact of changes in Medicare payments for Part B Drugs specifically recommending that the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services clarify ASP reporting requirements “to ensure that ASP calcu- 44 Table of Contents lations allocate discounts to reflect the transaction price for each drug.” Under the ASP system, the Company allocates its discounts based on the prices paid for individual drugs, according to the terms of its contracts with physicians and other purchasers, and we believe that the resulting ASPs reflect the transaction prices for individual drugs. Referencing MedPAC’s December 2006 report, CMS proposed in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Proposed Rule for 2008 revising the methodology for calculating ASP to require the reallocation of price concessions of drugs sold under “bundled arrangements,” described by CMS in part as an arrangement regardless of physical packaging under which the rebate, discount or other price concession is conditioned upon the purchase of the same drug or biological or other drugs or biologicals or some other performance requirement. In the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Final Rule for 2008, CMS stated that it is not finalizing the proposed regulatory change at this time, based on comments recommending a delay and raising concerns about the proposal. The agency also clarified that in the absence of specific guidance, manufacturers may make “reasonable assumptions” in the calculation of ASP, consistent with the general requirements and the intent of the Medicare statute and regulations and their customary business practices. The agency stated that it will continue to monitor this issue and may provide more specific guidance in the future. Related to this issue, CMS issued a final Medicaid rule on July 6, 2007 that covered a broad range of topics concerning the calculation and use of AMP and best price as well as a definition for bundled sales under the Medicaid program. Although it has minor differences, the definition of “bundled sale” under this rule is essentially the same as what CMS proposed under the definition of “bundled arrangement” in the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Proposed Rule for 2008 but which was not adopted for ASP reporting in the Final Rule for 2008. We continue in the process of evaluating what impact the final rule will have on our business. Other initiatives reviewing the coverage or reimbursement of our products, including those related to safety, could result in less extensive coverage or lower reimbursement and could negatively affect sales of some of our marketed products. For example, on March 14, 2007, shortly after the label changes for all ESAs, CMS announced that the agency had begun reviewing all Medicare policies related to the administration of ESAs in non-renal disease applications as part of a NCA which is generally CMS’ first step toward developing a NCD. Generally, a NCD is a national policy statement granting, limiting or excluding Medicare coverage or reimbursement for a specific medical item or service. During the initial comment period which ended on April 13, 2007, we submitted comments to CMS which included a detailed and thorough review of the available clinical data, noted a series of important considerations and made a number of specific recommendations for the agency to consider in developing a NCD. On May 14, 2007, CMS issued the Proposed NCD following a review of data and public comments submitted as part of the NCA, which under the MMA, was subject to a 30-day public comment period that ended June 13, 2007. On July 30, 2007, CMS issued its Decision Memorandum which was substantially altered from the Proposed NCD. On January 14, 2008, CMS issued changes to its Medicare National Coverage Determinations Manual, adding the ESA Decision Memorandum, effective for claims with dates of service on and after July 30, 2007 with an implementation date of April 7, 2008. In the Decision Memorandum, CMS determined that ESA treatment was not reasonable and necessary for certain clinical conditions. These conditions include: • Any anemia in cancer or cancer treatment patients due to folate deficiency, B-12 deficiency, iron deficiency, hemolysis, bleeding or bone marrow fibrosis; • Anemia associated with the treatment of AML, CML or erythroid cancers; • AoC not related to cancer treatment; • Any anemia associated only with radiotherapy; • Prophylactic use to prevent CIA; • Prophylactic use to reduce tumor hypoxia; • Patients with erythropoietin-type resistance due to neutralizing antibodies; and • Anemia due to cancer treatment if patients have uncontrolled hypertension. 45 Table of Contents Additionally, in the Decision Memorandum, CMS provides coverage for ESA treatment for the anemia secondary to myelosuppressive anticancer chemotherapy in solid tumors, multiple myeloma, lymphoma, and lymphocytic leukemia under the following conditions: • The Hb level immediately prior to initiation or maintenance of ESA treatment is < 10 g/dL (or the hematocrit is < 30%); • The starting dose for ESA treatment is the recommended FDA label starting dose, no more than 150 U/kg/three times weekly for Epoetin and 2.25 mcg/kg/weekly for darbepoetin alfa. Equivalent doses may be given over other approved time periods; • Maintenance of ESA therapy is the starting dose if the Hb level remains below 10 g/dL (or hematocrit is < 30%) 4 weeks after initiation of therapy and the rise in Hb is > 1 g/dL (hematocrit > 3%). However, if after the first 4 weeks the Hb is > 10 g/dL, ESA treatment is not covered; • For patients whose Hb rises < 1 g/dL (hematocrit rise < 3%) compared to pretreatment baseline over 4 weeks of treatment and whose Hb level remains < 10 g/dL after the 4 weeks of treatment (or the hematocrit is < 30%), the recommended FDA label starting dose may be increased once by 25%. Continued use of the drug is not reasonable and necessary if the Hb rises < 1 g/dL (hematocrit rise < 3 %) compared to pretreatment baseline by 8 weeks of treatment; • Continued administration of the drug is not reasonable and necessary if there is a rapid rise in Hb > 1 g/dL (hematocrit > 3%) over 2 weeks of treatment unless the Hb remains below or subsequently falls to < 10 g/dL (or the hematocrit is < 30%). Continuation and reinstitution of ESA therapy must include a dose reduction of 25% from the previously administered dose; and • ESA treatment duration for each course of chemotherapy under the above conditions includes the eight weeks following the final dose of myelosuppressive chemotherapy in a chemotherapy regimen. Under the provisions of the Decision Memorandum, Medicare contractors may continue to issue local coverage determinations based on the existing Medicare policy of “reasonable and necessary determinations” on all uses of ESAs that are not determined by the Decision Memorandum, including MDS. The Decision Memorandum establishes the ESA reimbursement policy for Medicare and other government beneficiaries who are treated for CIA and who all together accounted for approximately 50% of the U.S. cancer patients receiving Aranesp® prior to its issuance. We believe that the majority of CIA patients who received treatment with ESAs, including Aranesp®, were initiated at Hb levels above 10 g/dL and were maintained with Hb levels above 10 g/dL with continued therapy prior to the issuance of the Decision Memorandum. Given that the Decision Memorandum contains a coverage restriction for Hb levels greater than 10 g/dL, we believe that such restriction has and will continue to change the way ESAs are used in clinical practice, for example, by decreasing the number of treated patients, the average ESA dose and the duration of ESA therapy. We believe this restriction on reimbursement of ESAs in the Decision Memorandum has had and will continue to have a material adverse effect on the use, reimbursement and sales of Aranesp®, and our business and results of operations. Additionally, based on our knowledge, although no private payers have implemented the Decision Memorandum to date, many private payers have implemented the Hb initiation restriction included in the Decision Memorandum. Further, due to difficulties in administering a two-tier medical practice, we believe many healthcare providers have reduced ESA utilization for all of their patients regardless of insurance coverage. Also, although the Decision Memorandum did not directly affect reimbursement for treatment of MDS, we also believe that certain physicians have reduced ESA utilization in this setting. While we cannot fully predict the impact of the Decision Memorandum on how, or under what circumstances, healthcare providers will prescribe or administer our ESAs, it had a significant impact to our business in 2007 and believe that it will significantly impact us in 2008. In addition, the FDA held a joint meeting of the CRDAC and the DSaRMAC on September 11, 2007, which evaluated the safety data on ESA use in renal disease. Although CMS has made no announcement of a nephrology focused NCA, any NCD for ESAs in the renal setting, which may include non-coverage and/or new dosing 46 Table of Contents and treatment restrictions similar to those proposed in Decision Memorandum for treatment of anemia in oncology with ESAs, would negatively affect use, reduce reimbursement and coverage, negatively affect product sales of our ESA products and may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If, and when, reimbursement rates or availability for our marketed products changes adversely or if we fail to obtain adequate reimbursement for our current or future products, healthcare providers may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them, which could reduce the use of our products or cause us to reduce the price of our products. This could result in lower product sales, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. For example, the use of EPOGEN® in the United States in connection with treatment for ESRD is funded primarily by the U.S. federal government. In early 1997, CMS, formerly known as Healthcare Financing Administration (“HCFA”), instituted a reimbursement change for EPOGEN®, which materially and adversely affected our EPOGEN® sales until the policies were revised. In addition, following the update to the ESA labels, nearly all Medicare contractors dropped reimbursement for Aranesp® for AoC. (See “— Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products.”) Also, we believe the increasing emphasis on cost-containment initiatives in the United States, Europe and other countries has and will continue to put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may adversely impact product sales. Further, when a new therapeutic product is approved, the governmental and/or private coverage and reimbursement for that product is uncertain and a failure to demonstrate clear economic value associated with the use of a new therapeutic product as compared to existing therapeutic products or practices may result in inadequate or no reimbursement. We cannot predict the availability or amount of reimbursement for our approved products or product candidates, including those at a late stage of development, and current reimbursement policies for marketed products may change at any time. Sales of all our products are and will be affected by government and private payer reimbursement policies. Reduction in reimbursement for our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. If our intellectual property positions are challenged, invalidated, circumvented or expire, or if we fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation, our business could be adversely affected. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. To date, there has emerged no consistent policy regarding breadth of claims allowed in such companies’ patents. Third parties may challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patents that they may claim prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude or delay commercialization of products. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in patent litigation. However, a patent dispute or litigation may not discourage a potential violator from bringing the product that is alleged to infringe to market and we may be subject to competition during certain periods of litigation. For example, with the October 23, 2007, jury verdict in the U.S. Federal District Court in Boston and the Court’s rulings on various pre-trial and post-trial motions, Roche was found to infringe a total of ten claims from four of Amgen’s EPO patents. Roche filed a BLA with the FDA for their peg-EPO product and on November 14, 2007 the FDA approved MIRCERA® for the treatment of anemia associated with CRF including patients on dialysis and patients not on dialysis. We are now requesting a permanent injunction to prevent Roche from commercializing its peg-EPO product in the United States in violation of our affirmed patent rights. This lawsuit is described in Note 10 “Contingencies — Roche Matters” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (See “— Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.”) Further, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, products approved by the FDA under a NDA may be the subject of patent litigation with generic competitors before the five year period of exclusivity provided for under the Act has expired and prior to the expiration of the patent term of product. If we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities; required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 47 Table of Contents Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. We have filed applications for a number of patents and have been granted patents or obtained rights relating to erythropoietin, natural and recombinant G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, cinacalcet HCl, panitumumab and our other products and potential products. We market our erythropoietin, recombinant G-CSF, darbepoetin alfa, pegfilgrastim, etanercept, cinacalcet HCl and panitumumab products as EPOGEN® (Epoetin alfa), NEUPOGEN® (Filgrastim), Aranesp® (darbepoetin alfa), Neulasta® (pegfilgrastim), Enbrel® (etanercept), Sensipar®/Mimpara® (cinacalcet HCl) and VectibixTM (panitumumab), respectively. With respect to our material patents, we have had a number of G-CSF patent expiries in the United States. We also have been granted or obtained rights to patents in Europe relating to erythropoietin; G-CSF; pegfilgrastim (pegylated G-CSF); etanercept; two relating to darbepoetin alfa; hyperglycosylated erythropoietic proteins; and cinacalcet HCl. Our principal European patent relating to erythropoietin expired on December 12, 2004 and our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired on August 22, 2006. As these patents have expired, some companies have and we believe others may receive approval for and market biosimilar and other products (as they are generally known in the EU) to compete with these products in the EU presenting additional competition to our products. (See “— Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do.”) We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs and not achieve anticipated cost savings from our recently announced restructuring plan. As a result of recent developments and, in particular the regulatory and reimbursement changes to our marketed ESA products, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R&D investments and build the framework for our future growth. As part of the restructuring plan, we reduced staff, made changes to certain capital projects and closed certain production operations. As a result of our restructuring plan, we expect to reduce costs beginning in 2008. Our ability to achieve anticipated savings is dependent upon various future developments, some of which are beyond our control. We may also not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits and savings from our restructuring efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve the anticipated savings or benefits to our business in the expected time frame or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further, if we were to experience unanticipated and unforeseen changes to our business, we may face further restructuring and/or reorganization activities in the future. In addition, our reduction of staff was completed through a combination of a voluntary transition program and an involuntary reduction in force. In order to be successful and build our framework for future growth, we must continue to execute and deliver on our core business initiatives, with fewer human resources and losses of intellectual capital. We must also attract, retain and motivate key employees including highly qualified management, scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel who are critical to our business. We may not be able to attract, retain or motivate qualified employees in the future and our inability to do so may adversely affect our business. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. However, professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians, private health/science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups/organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies and reimbursement of our products by government and private payers. (See “— Our sales depend on payment and reimbursement from third-party payers, and, to the extent that reimbursement for our products is reduced, this could negatively impact the utilization of our products.”) Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products. Recom- 48 Table of Contents mendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use and/or dosage of our products. Some examples of agency and organizational guidelines include: • On August 30, 2007, the NKF distributed to the nephrology community final updated KDOQI clinical practice guidelines and clinical practice recommendations for anemia in CKD. The NKF’s Anemia Work Group conducted an extensive review of results from 26 new and existing randomized controlled trials, comparing the risks and benefits of a range of Hb therapeutic targets in CKD patients. Based on this review, the NKF-KDOQI™ Anemia Work Group recommended in their 2007 Update to the NKF-KDOQI™ Anemia Management Guidelines that physicians target Hb in the range of 11 g/dL to 12 g/dL, and also stipulated that the target not be above 13 g/dL. Like others in the nephrology community, we continue to monitor the impact the updated guidelines have had and will have on physician utilization and dosage of EPOGEN® and Aranesp®. • The GAO issued a report on December 5, 2006 recommending that ESRD drugs and biologics, including EPOGEN®, be bundled into the Medicare dialysis composite payment rate. A day after the GAO report was released, the House Ways and Means Committee held a hearing that focused on EPOGEN®, including discussion of the delay in the MMA mandated bundled payment demonstration, and the GAO report and recommendation. Future Medicare reform legislation may require a bundled payment for all dialysis services, including but not limited to ESAs, other drugs and labs common in dialysis. • On February 2, 2007, following the reported results from our AoC 103 Study, the USP DI Drug Reference Guides removed Aranesp® in the treatment of AoC. Thereafter, Aranesp® use in AoC decreased significantly throughout 2007. Any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. We may not be able to develop commercial products. We intend to continue to make significant R&D investments. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few R&D projects produce a commercial product. Product candidates or new indications for existing products (collectively, “product candidates”) that appear promising in the early phases of development, such as in early human clinical trials, may fail to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it demonstrated positive preclinical trial results • the product candidate was not effective or more effective than currently available therapies in treating a specified condition or illness • the product candidate had harmful side effects in humans or animals • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA, did not approve our product candidate for an intended use • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize • other parties have or may have proprietary rights to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and will not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all • the product candidate is not cost effective in light of existing therapeutics • we and certain of our licensees, partners or independent investigators may fail to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities • the regulatory pathway to approval for product candidates is uncertain or not well-defined 49 Table of Contents For example, we announced that after discussions with the FDA we have decided not to file for approval of motesanib diphosphate in refractory thyroid cancer until there is more clarity on what would constitute an appropriate regulatory filing package for that indication. We believe that the safety concerns around our ESAs expressed by the FDA must be addressed to the agency’s satisfaction before new indications or expanded labeling of our ESA products will likely be approved. Further, several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process, including, but not limited to, Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor (“BDNF”), Megakaryocyte Growth and Development Factor (“MGDF”) and Glial Cell Lined-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (“GDNF”). For example, in 1997, we announced the failure of BDNF for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig’s Disease, because the product candidate, when administered by injection, did not produce acceptable clinical results for a specific use after a phase 3 trial, even though BDNF had progressed successfully through preclinical and earlier clinical trials. In addition, in 1998, we discontinued development of MGDF, a novel platelet growth factor, at the phase 3 trial stage after several people in platelet donation trials developed low platelet counts and neutralizing antibodies. Also, in June 2004, we announced that the phase 2 study of GDNF for the treatment of advanced Parkinson’s disease did not meet the primary study endpoint upon completion of nine months of the double-blind treatment phase of the study even though a small phase 1 pilot investigator-initiated open-label study over a three year period appeared to result in improvements for advanced Parkinson’s disease patients. Subsequently, in the fall of 2004 we discontinued clinical development of GDNF in patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease after several patients in the phase 2 study developed neutralizing antibodies and new preclinical data showed that GDNF caused irreversible damage to the area of the brain critical to movement control and coordination. On February 11, 2005, we confirmed our previous decision to halt clinical trials and, as a part of that decision and based on thorough scientific review, we also concluded that we will not provide GDNF to the 48 patients who participated in clinical trials that were terminated in the fall of 2004. Of course, there may be other factors that prevent us from marketing a product. We cannot guarantee we will be able to produce or manufacture commercially successful products. (See “— Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”; “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.” and “— Before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates, we must conduct clinical trials in humans; if we fail to adequately manage these trials we may not be able to sell future products and our sales could be adversely affected.”) Our business may be affected by government investigations or litigation. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings relating to various patent matters, government investigations, our business operations, government requests for information and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Matters required to be disclosed by us are set forth in Note 10, “Contingencies” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and are updated as required in subsequently filed Form 10-Qs. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in excessive verdicts and/or injunctive relief that affects how we operate our business. Consequently, it is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The federal government, state governments and private payers are investigating, and many have filed actions against numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including Amgen and Immunex, now a wholly owned subsidiary of ours, alleging that the reporting of prices for pharmaceutical products has resulted in false and overstated average wholesale price (“AWP”), which in turn is alleged to have improperly inflated the reimbursement paid by Medicare beneficiaries, insurers, state Medicaid programs, medical plans and other payers to healthcare providers who prescribed and administered those products. A number of these actions have been brought against us and/or Immunex. Additionally, a number of states have pending investigations regarding our Medicaid drug pricing practices and the U.S. Departments of Justice and Health and Human Services have re- 50 Table of Contents quested that Immunex produce documents relating to pricing issues. Further, certain state government entity plaintiffs in some of these AWP cases are also alleging that companies, including ours, were not reporting their “best price” to the states under the Medicaid program. These cases and investigations are described in Note 10, “Contingencies — Average Wholesale Price Litigation” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and are updated as required in subsequent Form 10-Qs. Other states and agencies could initiate investigations of our pricing practices. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions and/or investigations could result in substantial economic damages and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which such liabilities are incurred. We may be required to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims. Product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products that we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. Amgen and Immunex have been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. Our revenues may fluctuate and our operating results are subject to fluctuations and these fluctuations could cause financial results to be below expectations and our stock price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons, some of which we cannot control. For example, primarily as a result of various regulatory and reimbursement developments involving ESA products that began in 2007, our anemia product sales, in particular sales of Aranesp®, for 2007 were materially adversely impacted. Even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections as some of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term and cannot be reduced within a short period of time to offset reductions in revenue. Further, primarily as a result of the various regulatory and reimbursement developments impacting ESA products, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure. We have incurred approximately $739 million of the current estimated $775 million to $825 million in charges in connection with this restructuring plan. Our operating results have and will continue to fluctuate and be adversely impacted as a result of these restructuring charges. (See “— We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs and not achieve anticipated cost savings from our recently announced restructuring plan.”) In addition, in the event that the actual restructuring charges exceed our latest estimate, this may cause our operating results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result of the above or other challenges, including the upcoming March 13, 2008 ODAC meeting and continuing label revisions to our ESAs, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations. Additionally, our stock price, like that of other biotechnology companies, is volatile. For example, in the fifty-two weeks prior to December 31, 2007, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a high of $75.85 per share to a low of $46.44 per share. Our revenues, operating results and stock price may be affected by a number of factors, such as: • adverse developments regarding the safety or efficacy of our products • changes in the government’s or private payers’ reimbursement policies or prescribing guidelines for our products • inability to maintain regulatory approval of marketed products or manufacturing facilities • actual or anticipated clinical trial results of ours or our licensees, partners or independent investigators • business development or licensing activities • product development or other business announcements by us or our competitors • regulatory matters or actions 51 Table of Contents • lower than expected demand for our products or a change in product mix either or both of which may result in less than optimal utilization of our manufacturing facilities and the potential to incur excess capacity or impairment charges • changes in our product pricing strategies • changes in wholesaler buying patterns • increased competition from new or existing products • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates • announcements in the scientific and research community • intellectual property and legal matters • actual or anticipated product supply constraints • broader economic, industry and market trends unrelated to our performance • pronouncements and rule changes by applicable standards authorities that change the manner in which we account for certain transactions Of course, there may be other factors that affect our revenues, operating results and stock price in any given period. In addition, if our revenues, earnings or other financial results in any period fail to meet the investment community’s expectations, there could be an immediate adverse impact on our stock price. We rely on single third-party suppliers for some of our raw materials, medical devices and components; if these third-parties fail to supply these items, we may be unable to supply our products. Certain raw materials necessary for commercial manufacturing and formulation of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Also, certain medical devices and components necessary for formulation, fill and finish of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. Certain of these raw materials, medical devices and components are the proprietary products of these unaffiliated third-party suppliers and, in some cases, such proprietary products are specifically cited in our drug application with the FDA so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the FDA approved that other supplier. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices or components for an indeterminate period of time if these third-party single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials or products to us for any reason, including: • regulatory requirements or action by the FDA or others • adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier • unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of an avian or pandemic flu outbreak, or otherwise • failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality failures, product contamination and/or recall These events could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. For example, we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility without impact on our ability to supply these products. However, we may experience these or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints and/or stock-outs of our products. 52 Table of Contents Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial manufacturing and the formulation of our products are derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and HSA. We are investigating alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically-sourced raw materials as such raw materials may be subject to contamination and/or recall. Also, some countries in which we market our products may restrict the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of drugs. A material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restriction of the use of certain biologically derived substances in the manufacture of our products could adversely impact or disrupt our commercial manufacturing of our products or could result in a mandated withdrawal of our products from the market. This could adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. Further, any disruptions or delays by us or by third-party suppliers or partners in converting to alternatives to certain biological sources and alternative manufacturing processes or our ability to gain regulatory approval for the alternative materials and manufacturing processes could increase our associated costs or result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value of certain related assets, which could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations. Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. We currently manufacture and market all our principal products, and we plan to manufacture and market many of our product candidates. Manufacturing biologic human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. (See “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.”) We currently manufacture our products and product candidates at our manufacturing facilities located in Thousand Oaks and Fremont, California; Boulder and Longmont, Colorado; West Greenwich, Rhode Island; Bothell, Washington and Juncos, Puerto Rico. (See “— We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products.”) Additionally, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce or assist in the production of ENBREL and Sensipar®/Mimpara® and in the formulation, fill and finish of VectibixTM and plan to use contract manufacturers to produce a number of our late-stage product candidates. (See “— We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our bulk supply and the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL.”) Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities which is impacted by many manufacturing variables including: • availability or contamination of raw materials and components used in the manufacturing process, particularly those for which we have no other source or supplier • facility capacity of our facilities or those of our contract manufacturers • facility contamination by microorganisms or viruses • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of an avian or pandemic flu outbreak, or otherwise • compliance with regulatory requirements • changes in forecasts of future demand • timing and actual number of production runs • production success rates and bulk drug yields • timing and outcome of product quality testing If we have problems in one or more of these or other manufacturing variables, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. For example, in the second quarter of 2002, the prior co-marketers with respect to ENBREL experienced a brief period where no ENBREL was available to fill patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the expected production yield from BI Pharma. If 53 Table of Contents we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients, physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, and sales of our products will be adversely affected, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. We manufacture and contract manufacture, price, sell, distribute and market or co-market our products for their approved indications. These activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal governmental authorities in the United States, such as the FDA and CMS, as well as in foreign countries, including European countries, Canada, Australia and Japan. Although we have obtained regulatory approval for our marketed products, these products and our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party contract manufacturers must undergo a potentially lengthy FDA or other regulatory approval process and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take longer than five years to build and license a new manufacturing plant and it can take longer than three years to qualify a new contract manufacturer. In order to maintain supply, mitigate risks associated with the vast majority of our formulation, fill and finish operations being performed in a single facility and to adequately prepare to launch a number of our late-stage product candidates, we must successfully implement a number of manufacturing projects on schedule, operate our facilities at appropriate production capacity over the next few years, continue our use of third-party contract manufacturers and maintain a state of regulatory compliance. Key manufacturing projects include: (i) expansion of our existing bulk protein facilities at our Puerto Rico site for the production of our late-stage product candidate denosumab; (ii) construction, qualification and licensure of a new formulation and filling facility at our Puerto Rico site and (iii) expansion of our Fremont, California facility to support future product launches. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers have violated regulations or if they restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, they could prohibit us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers are subject to FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and service providers may not be available on a timely basis or at all. For example, we are dependent upon a single FDA approved third-party contract manufacturer for the formulation, fill and finish of VectibixTM. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, we may experience delayed shipments, supply constraints, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. If we are unable to manufacture, market and sell our products, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We manufacture and formulate, fill and finish substantially all our products at our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility; if significant natural disasters or production failures occur at this facility, we may not be able to supply these products. We currently perform all of the formulation, fill and finish for EPOGEN®, Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN®, some formulation, fill and finish operations for ENBREL, and all of the bulk manufacturing for Aranesp®, Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN® at our manufacturing facility in Juncos, Puerto Rico. Our global supply of these products is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of this facility. A number of factors could adversely affect our operations, including: • power failures • breakdown, failure or substandard performance of equipment • improper installation or operation of equipment • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of an avian or pandemic flu outbreak, or otherwise • inability of third-party suppliers to provide raw materials and components • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes • failures to comply with regulatory requirements, including those of the FDA 54 Table of Contents For example, this facility in Puerto Rico has experienced manufacturing component shortages and there was evidence of adverse trends in the microbial bioburden of the production environment that reduced the production output. Although these experiences in Puerto Rico have not impacted our ability to supply product in the past, the same or other problems may result in our being unable to supply these products, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results materially. Although we have obtained limited insurance to protect against certain business interruption losses, there can be no assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that such coverage will continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. The extent of the coverage of our insurance could limit our ability to mitigate for lost sales and could result in such losses adversely affecting our product sales and operating results materially. (See “— Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”) We are dependent on third parties for a significant portion of our bulk supply and the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL. Under a collaboration and global supply agreement, we and Wyeth share the total worldwide bulk supply of ENBREL produced by our Rhode Island manufacturing facility, BI Pharma’s manufacturing facility in Germany and Wyeth’s manufacturing facility in Ireland. Our ENBREL supply forecasts rely on certain assumptions of how much ENBREL each of these manufacturing facilities is expected to produce. If any of these manufacturing facilities are unable to produce in accordance with our or Wyeth’s expectations, the worldwide supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected materially. In such cases, we may be required to allocate supply for Wyeth’s benefit. To the extent that there is a shortfall in worldwide production, our supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected. Additionally, the costs associated with a shortfall or failure in production of ENBREL would be borne by both parties. We currently produce a substantial portion of the annual ENBREL supply at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility. However, we also depend on third parties for a significant portion of our ENBREL bulk supply as well as for some of the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL that we manufacture. BI Pharma is our third-party contract manufacturer of ENBREL bulk drug; accordingly, our U.S. and Canadian supply of ENBREL is currently significantly dependent on BI Pharma’s production schedule for ENBREL. We would be unable to produce ENBREL in sufficient quantities to substantially offset shortages in BI Pharma’s scheduled production if BI Pharma or other third-party contract manufacturers used for the formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL bulk drug were to cease or interrupt production or services or otherwise fail to supply materials, products or services to us for any reason, including due to labor shortages or disputes, regulatory requirements or action or contamination of product lots or product recalls. For example, in the second quarter of 2002, the prior co-marketers with respect to ENBREL experienced a brief period where no ENBREL was available to fill patient prescriptions, primarily due to variation in the expected production yield from BI Pharma. We cannot guarantee that an alternative third-party contract manufacturer would be available on a timely basis or at all. This in turn could materially reduce our ability to satisfy demand for ENBREL, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Among the factors that could affect our actual supply of ENBREL at any time include, without limitation, BI Pharma’s and our Rhode Island facility’s bulk drug production scheduling. For example, BI Pharma does not produce ENBREL continuously; rather, it produces the bulk drug substance through a series of periodic campaigns throughout the year. Our Rhode Island manufacturing facility is currently dedicated to ENBREL production. The amount of commercial inventory available to us at any time depends on a variety of factors, including the timing and actual number of BI Pharma’s production runs, the actual number of runs at our Rhode Island manufacturing facility, and, for either the Rhode Island or BI Pharma facilities, the level of production yields and success rates, the timing and outcome of product quality testing and the amount of formulation, fill and finish capacity. We are also dependent on third-parties for some formulation, fill and finish of ENBREL bulk drug substance manufactured at our Rhode Island facility. If third-party formulation, fill and finish manufacturers are unable to provide sufficient capacity or are otherwise unable to provide services to us, the supply of ENBREL could be adversely affected materially. 55 Table of Contents Our marketed products face substantial competition and other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products before or more successfully than we do. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our products compete with other products or treatments for diseases for which our products may be indicated. For example, ENBREL competes in certain circumstances with products marketed by J&J, Abbott, Biogen, Genentech, BMS, Novartis and Sanofi-Aventis, as well as the generic drug methotrexate, and may face competition from other potential therapies being developed. For example, on January 18, 2008, Abbott announced it had received approval from the FDA to market HUMIRA® as a treatment for adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis. HUMIRA® will now compete with ENBREL in both the rheumatology and dermatology segments. While ENBREL continues to maintain a leading position in both rheumatology and dermatology, it has experienced and continues to experience share loss to competitors. Vectibix TM, our oncology therapeutic in the United States and the EU to treat patients with mCRC, competes with Imclone’s Erbitux®. Additionally, Aranesp® competes or will potentially compete in the EU with: Product Company Countries Timing for Launch EPREX® J&J EU Launched in 1988 Neorecormon® Roche EU Launched in 2007 DynepoTM Shire Germany, UK Launched in 2007 Biosimilar Erythropoietin Sandoz with co-marketers Hexal and Medice Germany, UK Others Launched in 2007 2008 Biosimilar Erythropoietin Hospira/Stada Germany, UK 2008 Others 2008 peg-EPO/MIRCERA® Roche Germany, UK, Netherlands, Austria, Sweden, Switzerland Launched in 2007 2008 In addition, several companies are developing potentially competing therapies. For example, Affymax/Takeda are co-developing, Hematide™, an erythropoietin mimetic for the treatment of anemia. Further, if our currently marketed products are approved for new uses, or if we sell new products, or our competitors get new or expanded indications, we may face new, additional competition that we do not face today. Further, adverse clinical developments for our current products could limit our ability to compete. (See “— Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.”) Our products may compete against products that have lower prices, equivalent or superior performance, are easier to administer or that are otherwise competitive with our products. Our principal European patent relating to erythropoietin expired on December 12, 2004 and our principal European patent relating to G-CSF expired on August 22, 2006. As these patents have expired, some companies have and other companies may receive approval for and market biosimilar or other products to compete with our products in the EU, presenting additional competition to our products. Although we cannot predict with certainty when the first G-CSF biosimilar products could appear on the market in the EU, with the February 21, 2008 positive opinion from the CHMP, we expect that the first biosimilar G-CSF product will be approved in the first half of 2008 and could be available shortly thereafter, and that it would compete with Neulasta® and NEUPOGEN®. We cannot predict to what extent the entry of biosimilar products or other competing products will impact future Aranesp® , Neulasta® or NEUPOGEN® sales in the EU. Our inability to compete effectively could reduce sales which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2006, the EMEA developed and issued final regulatory guidelines related to the development and approval of biosimilar products. The final guidelines included clinical trial guidance for certain biosimilar products including erythropoietins and G-CSFs, which guidance recommends that applicants seeking approval of such biosimilar products conduct fairly extensive pharmacodynamic, toxicological, clinical safety studies and a pharmacovigilance program. In the United States, there currently is no legal approval pathway for the approval of BLAs for biosimilars. A number of events would need to occur before these products could enter the market, in- 56 Table of Contents cluding passage of legislation by Congress to create a new approval pathway and, depending on the specific provisions of any such legislation, promulgation of associated regulations or guidance by the FDA. In 2007, several members of Congress expressed interest in the issue, a number of bills were introduced, the House of Representatives and the Senate held hearings on biosimilars, and the Senate Committee on HELP voted on legislation in June 2007. However, no final legislation was passed in either chamber of Congress. Given the continuing interest of Congress in the issue, it is possible legislation on biosimilars will also be considered in 2008. It is unknown what type of regulatory framework, what legal provisions, and what timeframes for issuance of regulations or guidance any final legislation would contain. Until such legislation is created, we cannot predict when biosimilars could appear in the United States. Certain of our competitors, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, market products or are actively engaged in R&D in areas where we have products or where we are developing product candidates or new indications for existing products. In the future, we expect that our products will compete with new drugs currently in development, drugs approved for other indications that may be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Large pharmaceutical corporations may have greater clinical, research, regulatory, manufacturing, marketing, financial and human resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical or competitive advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes. These resources may make it difficult for us to compete with them to successfully discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications that these competitors may bring to market. Business combinations among our competitors may also increase competition and the resources available to our competitors. We must build the framework for our future growth, and if we fail to execute on our initiatives our business could be adversely affected. As a result of developments in 2007 and, in particular the regulatory and reimbursement changes to our ESA products, on August 15, 2007, we announced a plan to restructure our worldwide operations in order to improve our cost structure while continuing to make significant R&D investments and build the framework for our future growth. We face a number of risks, some of which we cannot completely control. For example: • we will need to manage complexities associated with a large and geographically diverse organization • we will need to manage and execute large, complex and global clinical trials • we will need to significantly expand our sales and marketing resources to launch our late-stage product candidate, denosumab • we will need to accurately anticipate demand for the products we manufacture and maintain adequate manufacturing capacity for both commercial and clinical supply • we are implementing an enterprise resource planning system to support our increasingly complex business and business processes and such implementation is costly and carries substantial operations risk, including loss of data or information, unanticipated increases in costs, disruption of operations or business interruption Of course, there may be other risks and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully manage these or other risks. If we fail to execute on our initiatives in these ways or others, such failure could result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of free-standing dialysis clinic businesses may negatively impact our bargaining power and profit margins. The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales are made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and McKesson Corporation. These distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. One of these products, EPOGEN®, is primarily sold to free-standing dialysis clinics, which have experienced significant consolidation. Two organizations, DaVita Inc. and Fresenius own or manage a large 57 Table of Contents number of the outpatient dialysis facilities located in the United States and account for a significant majority of all EPOGEN® sales in the free-standing dialysis clinic setting. In October 2006, we entered into a five-year sole sourcing and supply agreement with an affiliate of Fresenius, on its behalf and on behalf of certain of its affiliates, to purchase, and we have agreed to supply, all of Fresenius’ commercial requirements for ESAs for use in managing the anemia of its hemodialysis patients in the United States and Puerto Rico, based on forecasts provided by Fresenius and subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement. These entities’ purchasing leverage has increased due to this concentration and consolidation which may put pressure on our pricing by their potential ability to extract price discounts on our products or fees for other services, correspondingly negatively impacting our bargaining position and profit margins. The results of these developments may have a material adverse effect on our product sales and results of operations. Our marketing of ENBREL is dependent in part upon Wyeth. Under a co-promotion agreement, we and Wyeth market and sell ENBREL in the United States and Canada. A management committee comprised of an equal number of representatives from us and Wyeth is responsible for overseeing the marketing and sales of ENBREL including strategic planning, the approval of an annual marketing plan, product pricing and the establishment of a brand team. The brand team, with equal representation from us and Wyeth, prepares and implements the annual marketing plan, which includes a minimum level of financial and sales personnel commitment from each party, and is responsible for all sales activities. If Wyeth fails effectively deliver on its marketing commitments to us or if we and Wyeth fail to coordinate our efforts effectively, our sales of ENBREL may be adversely affected materially. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and all potentially applicable foreign regulations. The development, manufacturing, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation in the United States and to extensive regulation in foreign countries. (See “ — Our current products and products in development cannot be sold if we do not gain or maintain regulatory approval of our products and we may be required to perform additional clinical trials or change the labeling of our products or take other potentially limiting or costly actions if we or others identify side effects after our products are on the market.” and “ — Difficulties, disruptions or delays in manufacturing or failure to comply with manufacturing regulations may limit supply of our products and limit our product sales.”) While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe to be current best practices, we cannot assure you that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state regulations and/or laws or all potentially applicable foreign regulations and/or laws. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations and/or laws a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs or other sanctions or litigation. The accounting method for our convertible debt securities may be subject to change. A convertible debt security providing for share and/or cash settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified requirements under Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 00-19, “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock,” including our outstanding convertible debt securities, is currently classified in its entirety as debt. No portion of the carrying value of such a security related to the conversion option indexed to our stock is classified as equity. In addition, interest expense is recognized at the stated coupon rate. The coupon rate of interest for convertible debt securities, including our convertible debt securities, is typically lower than what an issuer would be required to pay for nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. The EITF considered in 2007 whether the accounting for convertible debt securities that requires or permits settlement in cash either in whole or in part upon conversion (“cash settled convertible debt securities”) should 58 Table of Contents be changed, but was unable to reach a consensus and discontinued deliberations on this issue. Subsequently, in July 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) voted unanimously to reconsider the current accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities, which includes our convertible debt securities. In August 2007, the FASB exposed for public comment a proposed FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) that would change the method of accounting for such securities and would require the proposed method to be retrospectively applied. The FASB expects to begin deliberations on the proposed FSP in February 2008. The FSP, if issued as proposed, would become effective for calendar year end companies like us in the first quarter of 2008. Under this proposed method of accounting, the debt and equity components of our convertible debt securities would be bifurcated and accounted for separately in a manner that would result in recognizing interest on these securities at effective rates more comparable to what we would have incurred had we issued nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms. The equity component of our convertible debt securities would be included in the paid-in-capital section of stockholders’ equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and, accordingly, the initial carrying values of these debt securities would be reduced. Our net income for financial reporting purposes would be reduced by recognizing the accretion of the reduced carrying values of our convertible debt securities to their face amounts as additional non-cash interest expense. Therefore, if the proposed method of accounting for cash settled convertible debt securities is adopted by the FASB as described above, it would have an adverse impact on our past and future reported financial results. As the final guidance has not been issued, we cannot predict its ultimate outcome. We also cannot predict any other changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) that may be made affecting accounting for convertible debt securities, some of which could have an adverse impact on our past or future reported financial results. Continual manufacturing process improvement efforts may result in the carrying value of certain existing manufacturing facilities or other assets becoming impaired. In connection with our ongoing process improvement activities associated with products we manufacture, we continually invest in our various manufacturing practices and related processes with the objective of increasing production yields and success rates to gain increased cost efficiencies and capacity utilization. We are investigating alternative manufacturing processes that do not require the use of certain biologically-sourced raw materials. The development or implementation of such processes could result in changes to or redundancies with our existing manufacturing operations. Depending on the timing and outcomes of these efforts and our other estimates and assumptions regarding future product sales, the carrying value of certain manufacturing facilities or other assets may not be fully recoverable and could result in the recognition of an impairment in the carrying value at the time that such effects are identified. The recognition of impairment in the carrying value, if any, could have a material and adverse affect on our results of operations. 59 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 